ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our first words today are of support and affection to the neighbours of La Palma. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, they are trying to get us used to their internal struggles and to having a government sit down with Bildu, but no one understands such an unworthy equidistance between the executioners and the victims, nor that in the face of such a sensitive matter, which affects the well-being of the Spaniards, such as economic policy, the minister of the branch - that is, you - is continually disqualified, corrected and relegated by the populist wing of the government. That's right, today you can be very calm because you've removed the questions from that wing so that you don't have any kind of problem. The politics of the day-to-day, the improvisation in the face of events, the short regatta. You make legal uncertainty and uncertainty the basis of your management. This past week, investment banks have warned that their government has become the new risk premium for Spain. I ask you: how do you value your coordination of economic policy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u4	Thank you, President. First of all, I join your words, Mrs Gamarra, in loving and supporting all the citizens of La Palma who are experiencing a tremendous moment. [[Applauds]] The Government is with them as it is with all Spanish citizens. From the point of view of economic policy, Your Honor, we have been doing a coherent policy based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms for three years. And you know it well because we've been explaining it for three years and, besides, we do what we say. You've been trying to attack us for three years with the same kind of arguments that frankly don't stand. I hope that as soon as possible they will change their negative attitude and start helping the recovery, thinking about the well-being of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u6	Yes, Madam Vice-President, but let's talk about inflation first. Yesterday they warned you that this tax, the one that suffers the most those who have the least, is going to shoot this year up to 2.4%, eight tenths more of the forecast that there was in May. Do you have anything to say about this? Is he going to do something? If you really coordinate economic policy, let us clear up some doubts or incognites that create uncertainty for the Spaniards. Do you support the retroactive application of the minimum wage? Answer the businessmen. Does she support the repeal of the labour reform that continues to be defended by the second and usual vice president of the Senate? Is it in favour of repealing that reform which the People's Party has promoted, when you know that Europe is calling for it to continue to be implemented? Or, for example, that disastrous royal decree that ruins the renewables and warns that they can paralyze their activity, what coordination do you carry out there? For you to coordinate is to plant a minefield of legal insecurity, for example, in the electricity sector, with radical and confiscatory interventionism. In short, Madam Vice-President, the same always happens with the Socialist Party: first, they drive investment away; second, they scare the creation of wealth, and finally, they cut the rights to the Spaniards as Zapatero did and voted for Mr Sánchez. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u7	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u8	Your Honor, this government's economic policy is well known, respected and also creates confidence in our partners and international investors. I believe that you hide behind these kinds of grandiose expressions that generate fear in the citizenry, because what you don't want to understand is that you oppose everything. They oppose the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, oppose the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, oppose the improvement of public services and, lastly, oppose measures to lower the price of energy. [[Applauds]] I ask you, please, to change your attitude, because what we have learned during this parliamentary term is that we are at an uncertain moment, that the future is not written, that we are going to have to face very important challenges, but that to solve them what is not useful is their attitude, on their bench there is only anger, crispness and negative energy. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u10	We need to have a government like ours, a working government, a responsible government, a respectful government, which does what it does is fully dedicated to protecting the interests of Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: Has THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN ANY MEASURES TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM OF SUBMITTING SEMICONDUCHERS OR MATERIES BEFORE IT IS AFFECTING THE INDUSTRY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00629]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u11	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u12	Thank you, President. Minister, another blow to the industry. To the high energy cost that already suffers, now is added the shortage of semiconductors, the new gold that is affecting the industry and, especially, the automotive, Mercedes in Vitoria, Volkswagen in Navarre, Seat in Catalonia or Stellantis in Vigo. The consequence is that the low supply of semiconductors is making it move to other sectors, that there is ERTE in cascade, a stoppage of production, an increase in the final price by increasing the prices of raw materials and transport, which is making there are bids to acquire semiconductors, as well as an increase in the import of used cars and the extension of this problem to other industries. All this is summed up in one sentence: handbrake to recovery. Therefore, Minister, we ask you whether the Government has taken any steps to address the shortage of supply of semiconductors or raw materials that is affecting industry.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u13	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u14	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. As you well know, as a result of the pandemic, there has been a shortage, in this case of raw materials, of semiconductors. There has been a problem in supply chains that affects not only Spanish industry but also European industry. That certainly requires public support - as I pointed out - and also important investments, because we have to address a problem of technological sovereignty. The Government is therefore working within the European Commission. As you will know, the Commission has recently announced the development of the chip law which will allow Europe to increase semiconductor production by up to 20%, at the moment only 10% is being manufactured in Europe. In Spain, however, we are also taking steps to ensure continuous follow-up. We will transfer this problem to the Automotive Bureau so that it can be dealt with in a cross-cutting way with the private sector, in the short term, by facilitating - as you say - the internal flexibility mechanisms in the factories and in the ERTE, which have been a very effective tool to address the pandemic and to avoid the loss of jobs and also the loss of activity, and in the medium and long term, by incorporating in it the loss of automotive, in the loss of development of the electric and connected vehicle, programs that allow us to strengthen that industrial sovereignty and to produce in Spain and Europe these semiconductors, these chips. All this will indeed enable us, through autonomy, to deal with a problem - I insist - which is global and which has been exacerbated as a result of the pandemic, but to which this Government is of course giving a satisfactory response. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u15	Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u16	Thank you, Minister. It is true - you mentioned it in the Commission last week - that you are working at European level, but it is also true that they are long-term measures, because a battery factory is not put up overnight and the subject of chip law is also long-term. The truth is that this problem is going to be a structural problem, because the impulse of the electric car and the impulse of the hydrogen batteries will require a greater demand for these microchips. And how can we talk about a loss of cars, even battery plants, when the issue of semiconductors and even raw materials is still unsolved? Raw materials - you know - such as lithium or nickel, are essential for batteries and therefore a stable and clean supply is needed. And the problem with these materials is that they are scarce, they are concentrated in countries with great socio-political instability and they are extracted in that way. Are we going to depend on those countries? Is that supply insured? What policy will the government follow with minerals that are in the state and in Europe? At this time it is also necessary to address the problem not only in the long term but also in the short term. Therefore, Minister, it is necessary for your Government at least to pressure Brussels to increase the supply of semiconductors from Asia and for your Government, as you have said, to speed up the implementation of that so-called social shield which you have, at least to reduce redundancies, to encourage the training of workers who are affected and, moreover, to speed up decision-making on the problems which I have just highlighted. Because this, Minister, also demands a proactive and very intense attitude on the part of his ministry together with that of Ecological Transition, especially if we talk about raw materials, rare lands and all these minerals that are indispensable to the challenges that the industry and, especially, the automotive sector has to face. One proposal: circular economy for the recovery of critical materials of these microchips. There may be a market niche there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u17	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u18	Thank you very much. I think we are actually talking about constructive proposals to address the short term, but also the medium and long term. As I pointed out, the pandemic has shown a weakness in European and Spanish industry, which is the high dependence on third markets and, therefore, the development of industrial sovereignty and power from Europe to respond to car manufacturers and other economic sectors will certainly enable us to be more resilient. The Government of Spain is working on this. Next week we will have a Competitiveness Council and Spain will have proposals that will not only strengthen this industrial sovereignty, but also provide a solution in the short term. The ERTEs are a good measure, but I am certainly convinced that we will address this problem at the Automotive Bureau. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHY DOES THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING ESTABLISHED IN THE WORD OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING? [[File number 180/00638]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u19	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs María Sandra Moneo Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister of Education, the truth is that before you answer me, you should tell your colleague, the Minister of Industry, to apologize in this House for turning a human tragedy into a tourist claim. We haven't heard her apologize, Your Honor. We haven't heard her apologize. [[Applauds]] Minister, in a country where 22% of young people do not study or work the truth is that this government's recipe is at least surprising. To conclude, supposedly, with this terrible social scourge, what you do is take a fatal blow to the quality of the educational system until you turn the titles into pamphlets without any validity in the eyes of the whole world. That is why I ask you: why do you continue to sit on the path of educational fraud? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u21	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, be a little humble. The Minister of Industry and Tourism herself apologized also yesterday, so a little humility. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] However, Your Honor, I thank you for your question because it allows me to explain to you, on this first occasion, that the path on which this minister has been walking since July 12th... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u24	... is that of dialogue and consensus, essential elements, by the way, to improve the quality and equity of the education system. I'm already telling you, by the way, they're going to be the top of this minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u25	Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, please do not manipulate the words dialogue and consensus, you who broke the educational pact three days before submitting the motion of censure for political interests. Don't fool this House. The truth is, from what you tell me, nothing is true. You have never sought dialogue, nor the pact, nor the quality and excellence of the educational system. You have simply taken the easy shortcut, making up the number of approved ones by sacrificing the students' training for it. And that, Minister, is a fraud. The same is true of fraud in trying to end early school leaving by presenting false figures in Brussels and giving the title of Bachelor's degree, not to mention how the pandemic has been used to lower the demand for the system by one minute, and the OECD has also told it. Minister, do you know what the consequences of your actions are, what the real consequences are? That you are going to turn the public school into a heritage; a heritage where only those who cannot afford to pay for another type of education will come, Minister. A heritage that will be abandoned by teachers and that will be abandoned by families; families concerned about the education of their children, teachers tired of undermining their authority and forcing them to increase the number of approved. You, Minister, are going to destroy the lives of the weakest because this law, your law, will only survive who has the most, not who needs it most. Therefore, calmly and quietly I say that we are going to ask - as I said to Mrs Celaá - for the support of the Spanish to repeal this perverse law. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u27	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I see you're not coming to listen to this minister, you're coming to what's coming. But I reiterate to you once again that the will that moves this minister and this government is to work to improve the quality of the education system, to improve the resources of our teachers and students, to improve the educational success levels of all students and not of a few. You have asked me in the wording whether I was settled in fraud. I understand that if you want to talk about fraud, it's because you're taking advantage of your experience. Because, you know what fraud is? Cut off in education in times of crisis. [[Applauds]] Do you know what fraud is? Consider the scholarship a charity and not a right. Do you know what fraud is? Listen to students who have problems. Do you know what fraud is? Request dialogue when they rule and reject it flatly when they are in opposition. Yes, Mrs Moneo, so a little calm and a little calm because we are talking about education, a matter of state and it requires calm, it requires rigour and, above all, it requires coordinated work and resources. That is why this government in two years has injected more than EUR 7 billion into the education system, we have approved more than EUR 2 billion for scholarships for approximately 850 000 families in this country to enjoy this right and we have approved more than 129,000 vocational training places. So, Mrs Moneo, you abandon that negative and destructive speech because both you and I and all your ladies and gentlemen know that you are also educated by example, and that destructive and disloyal argument that you maintain is a terrible example that we set for the young people of this country. And by the way, if you want to talk about fraud, I will tell you that the only great fraud here is to prevent the renewal of constitutional bodies solely for partisan interests. So please don't ever talk about fraud again, at least without blushing. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR EDURNE URIARTE BENGOECHEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE MINISTER VALUE THE DELIVER COMMISSION AS A LEGISLATIVE DEMOCRATIC METHOD TO SIT THE GOVERNMENT AT AN INDEPENDENT MESSAGE OF NEGOTIATION? [[File number 180/00635]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u29	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Edurne Uriarte Bengoechea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u30	Mr President, does your Government support the fact that the commission of crimes such as sedition and embezzlement is a legitimate method of sitting the Government of Spain at a negotiating table? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u31	Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Demographic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, no. The Government does not endorse the commission of any crime: neither those committed by members of the Government of Catalonia in 2017 nor those committed by the leaders of the People's Party for years, none. [[Applauds]] Do you support as a democratic method of pressure the blocking of constitutional bodies and the violation of the law as a method of pressure to amend a law according to your holy will? [[Protests.-Applause.]] Clearly, you don't bet on dialogue and you don't bet on agreement. That's how it was, that's how it was when you were ruling. We do bet on dialogue and try to improve the living conditions of Catalans and Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u33	Mrs. Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u34	Mr Bolaños, I understand that you are afraid to answer this question and to avoid it. See if you endorse the crimes that you are going to sit with Bildu to negotiate today. Today, Mr. Bolaños. [[Applauds]] You have not set up a bilateral negotiating table with the Government of Andalusia, for example, or with Extremadura or Galicia or with Castilla-La Mancha, no; you have set up a negotiating table with those who starred in the most serious crimes of 2017, and not only that, with those who since then have assured you that you will commit those crimes again and again if you do not yield to your demands, and all because you want to secure your armchairs in the Moncloa. That is not a dialogue table, Mr Bolaños, it is a negotiating table where you will make decisions that will affect all Spaniards. Do not call that a meeting table with Catalonia, no, Mr Bolaños, it is a meeting table of you - PSOE and Unidad Podemos - with the Catalan independenceists, against at least half of the Catalans, whom you ignore, against the autonomous communities that comply with the law, against the majority of the Spanish. Mr Bolaños, it would take a whole day to remember the legal breaches of your negotiating partners, but I will remind you only one, the one that took place a week ago in front of the eyes of all the Spaniards, when your partner, Mr Aragonès, severely insulted our national flag, and without Pedro Sánchez moving a single finger to defend it. [[Applauds]] How long, Mr. Bolaños, are you going to allow this affront? Are you going to do the same at the next negotiating table, not protest this grave affront? Or is it that the flag is also part of your negotiation? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u35	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is evident by your tone and by your question that you do not bet on dialogue, do not bet on agreement, you bet on confrontation and confrontation. [[protests]] You are the conflict, we are the dialogue. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Very simple. Could you tell me what your project for Catalonia is? Could you please explain to me if you are going to put small tables in Catalonia against dialogue? Because you've made ridiculous like this good recently. Is that your project? Your project is to chronify the fracture in Catalonia? Is that what you intend for Catalonia and Spain? Do they really not want us to meet again, that we live together Catalans with each other and Catalans with the rest of Spain? Is that what you want? I will briefly explain to you the service sheet of the People's Party in Catalan matters, for Catalonia. Do you know what your government meant to Catalonia? It meant two illegal referendums, two disconnection laws and a unilateral declaration of independence. That's your service sheet in Catalonia. Do you know what that is? A catastrophe for Spain and Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, today there is a government that is betting on the reunion. Today Spain is in good hands. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT OPINION DOES IT DESERVE - AS THE FIRST VICEPRESSANT OF THE GOVERNMENT - THAT THE LAST WEDNESDAY IN BARCELONA SHALL WITHDRAW THE BANDERA OF SPAIN BEFORE THE PRESS COMPANY OF THE PRESIDENT OF GENERALITY? [[File number 180/00639]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u37	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, you clearly come today with the monotheme of dialogue and good tone. Well, I will tell you in a good way that this is the largest government of democracy and the least subject to the control of this House. In fact, now that we are gradually back to normal, ministers do not even dare to come here to the control session. What a dialogue, Minister! And that's the most important thing you have to do. You guys are still scorning Congress. Of the twenty-two questions put - dialogue - for this session, you answer only eight and of the eleven ministers summoned, you bring only six; in fact, of the first ten, by priority in this Congress, only one has come. I had asked a question to the Vice-President of the Government today - not to you - and I am disappointed that she does not answer it because, moreover, it is not that she is travelling - she is here today, acting as President of the Government in office - but she is hiding behind you in order not to answer me. Anyone would think that he has something to hide, or that he is afraid, or perhaps what happens to him is that he disagrees with his own government president. Let us talk, but for dialogue it is good that they are present. As I do not know very well what is happening to you, Vice President, and I am curious to ask you literally: what opinion does the first Vice President of the Government deserve last Wednesday in Barcelona to withdraw the flag of Spain before the appearance of the President of the Generalitat? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u39	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. I'm delighted to talk to you, even in this format, because I've called you three times and you haven't had a good time talking to me or meeting with me. [[Applauds]] And don't put cheap excuses in dark rooms, don't be like the People's Party, changing every fifteen minutes of excuse not to renew constitutional organs. We meet and see you wherever you say, in open spaces, in parks, in Congress, wherever you want. You know why? Because what I like is to talk to people who think differently. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u42	Do you know the only thing that can happen to him? Don't be afraid. The only thing that can happen to you is to have your mind opened a little bit and know that Spain is much bigger, more plural, more diverse and more tolerant than you think. [[Applauds]] And I'm also going to tell you what I don't like, which is solving the issues by slapping. I do not like and honestly believe that this is not the way to ensure coexistence in Spain. You have a golden opportunity in this forum to rectify the words that Mr Abascal said last week about solving the issues by slapping. Finally, I say to you on your question that what happened last Wednesday in Barcelona deserves a very positive opinion. Finally, politics faces problems and seeks solutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u43	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I very much appreciate your invitation to an appointment in the park, but you declined it kindly. [[Laughter]] I have no interest in seeing you in a park. And if we talk about dialogue, tell me what you're talking about. What are the topics of dialogue? Because, clearly, what you are demonstrating is an enormous weakness. The capacity for dialogue shows neither strength nor weakness; it depends on what is dialogue. You are demonstrating the ability to submit to what the separatists tell you because you need them to govern and, if you want to dialogue with us, what you have to do is to cut with the separatists, with the terrorists and with the thugs, with whom we will never have anything to do. [[Applauds]] In the meantime, we see ourselves here, where there are cameras, where there are lights and stenographers, and we talk, but for us to talk - I insist - it is much better for you to be in front and not like the Vice President of the Government, who is hiding today. And don't forget one thing, what the president of the government is doing, which is betraying Spain, is not doing it alone; he is doing it as part of a government that you and the first vice president are also part of. That betrayal of Spain which you are committing and which, above all, says what is good for you, that it is good for you to withdraw the flag of Spain, that the President of the Government submit himself and lower his head before the lady when the Spanish flag is not in front of you and that it is good for you, shows that you are responsible for all the trophies that the President of the Government is committing, you as Minister and the first Vice-President as the first head of this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u45	Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u46	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that we are different, that you are different from us. Fortunately, that's right. In the face of slaps, we dialogue; in the face of chrispation, we arguments; in the face of hatred, we live together. What we want is to make a useful policy in Catalonia, to make a policy that is capable of facing the problems of truth and of seeking consensual, dialogueal solutions that guarantee the coexistence between Catalans and the coexistence of Catalans and Spanish, that guarantee that Catalonia has a normalized situation, because what has happened in Catalonia and Spain has been an unbearable tension that has tired everyone, Catalans and Spanish. And what this Government is doing is, for the first time, addressing the problem; it is, for the first time, seeking democratic solutions to that situation. What's your alternative? Is it your alternative to keep the conflict sine die? Is it your alternative that Catalonia always has an institutional conflict with Spain, that Catalans are always on the brink of the abyss? Well, they won't find us there. We will be looking for solutions, with dialogue and agreement. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VICENT BETORET COLL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT BUSINESS IN THE INDEPENDENT MESSES THAT CANNOT BE DEBATE IN THE PARLIAMENT? [[File number 180/00637]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u47	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy. Question by Mr Vicente Betoret Coll, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u48	'We must combat the disaffection of citizens towards politics with transparency, strict mechanisms of control and accountability'. The phrase is not mine, the phrase is from his boss, Pedro Sánchez: he pronounced it in an investiture speech in this very House when there was still someone in Spain who believed him. Today we know that that phrase was an unfulfilled promise, an added deception and another betrayal of Spain. Madam Minister, what is the government negotiating at the independence table that cannot be debated in Parliament? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u49	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u50	Your Honor, Mr Pedro Sánchez is the president of all the Spanish, all the Spanish, all the Catalans and all the Catalans, even if you do not like him. [[Applauds]] That table to which you refer your partner called it negotiation, which still seems a little more appropriate to me. Of course, it does not have that name, it is a dialogue table, and, for your peace of mind, I will tell you that it is part of the normal relations between different institutions, as in this case are the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u51	Sir. Betoret.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u52	Minister, we know it was a deception, because the government you are a part of has become a machine to return favors, to return favors to Podemos, with whom the president said he could not sleep with them in the government; to return favors to Bildu, with whom he swore that he would never compromise; to return favors to Catalan independence, whose imprisoned politicians swore never to pardon. The table is just a smokescreen to conspire behind closed doors. That is why you refuse to make public the content of the meetings of shame, because you know that the whole of Spain would put the cry in heaven when seeing a government kneeling: its; kneeling before those who want to break Spain, kneeling before those who want to subdue democratic institutions and kneeling before those who want to bend democracy. They refuse to make public the matters dealt with because Pedro Sánchez's goal is to save Pedro Sánchez, and to make public the minutes of shame would mean having to leave the Moncloa immediately. If, as they say, their bet is dialogue, for when dialogue with families, who do not arrive at the end of the month and cannot even pay for the light; for when dialogue with those who want to educate their children in Catalan and do not get it; for when dialogue and a dialogue table with the Valencian Community, with Murcia or Andalusia, who have a serious funding problem; for when dialogue with Basques and Navarros, who expect a commission against hatred on public tributes to wretches? Minister, you do not seek dialogue, you long for power, and you want it at all costs. And, finally, I will talk to you about a phrase that your boss - the president of all the Spaniards, as you say - uttered in this House in a speech full of lies, which today turn against him: Dimit, Mr President; resign and it will all be over. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u53	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u54	See if you have few arguments - of course, so repeated the questions - that you have had to resort in two and a half minutes to two appointments from the President of the Government of Spain to substantiate your inquiry. [[Applauds]] They don't have any arguments left. They have no arguments because there are no proposals. It was recalled by the Minister of the Presidency: The only thing that you arrived at in your stage of government in the relations between our Government, the Government of Spain, the Government of the Generalitat and Catalan society with the rest of Spanish society, the only thing that you generated and left behind was conflict, confrontation and pain. That's what you left there then. And their only recipes were immobilism and confrontation. And I have not yet heard a single proposal in this House. Look, Your Honor, you have seriously altered our country's international reputation. [[Protests]] The Minister of the Presidency reminded him of three things that happened at the time. It is that they fled to half the government abroad, they fled as you are the government in this country. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u56	And the only difference between you and us is that then this bench and this parliamentary group were next to the government. That was the only difference. [[Applauds]] I know you don't like talking, talking, but I also said in your question that everything can be discussed in Parliament. Your Honor, not only can we debate in Parliament, but this Parliament has duties to do, and the duties you have to do, and in the renewal of the constitutional bodies, of the same Constitution that you defend when you want it and only in what you want it to do. [[Protests.-Applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, return, return to the normal PP, to which we all know and on which a majority of Spaniards also trusted, because on this path you will remain in irreverence; return to normality, to a centered right, which does not rely on the extremes; return you to the path of dialogue and to contribute to this country. Those who do not understand Spain in its diversity will never be able to reach their trust. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DO YOU SUPPOSE - IN THE CONDITION OF THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT - THE CELEBRATION OF A REFERENDUM OF SELF-DETERMINATION IN CATALUNE AS REQUIRED BY INDEPENDENTISTS? [[File number 180/00640]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u57	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u58	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Allow me a prior. Today, as every Wednesday, and this is not new, we hold the control session in this House. The coalition government currently comprises 23 members, 22 ministers and a president, President Sánchez, but yesterday afternoon they reported that only six ministers were going to be present today, that is, 17 members of the Government of Spain today evade their obligation and are not here to submit to the control of the Spanish people. You're the spokesman for the government. Doesn't it embarrass you to insult this House and the Spanish in this way? [[Applauds]] You are the government of permanent democratic rebellion, and in my case this frightened woman has assumed that she cannot exercise control over the Communist minister, the Labour minister, because she had been asked my question. He'd rather hide behind you and send her to answer. And don't misunderstand me, because in my words there is no contempt for your person. It is only that, if he had wanted to know his opinion as Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, he would have asked. But do you know what's going on, minister? That you, as you are not competent, I cannot ask you to stop worrying so much about your stylism, as is the case with the communist minister, and start worrying more about opening SEPE offices to the public, because it is a shame that the unemployed in Spain are finding closed offices and telephones communicating. [[Applauds]] That's what our communist minister would have to do. A few days ago you gave an interview to a media outlet, The Sixth, and in it you said: 'I have confidence in what we are going to do in our government, because we are going to change people's lives by changing our country'. I have been extraordinarily concerned, minister: changing our country, in what sense? 'The model of Pedro Sánchez of country and party is not that of the Socialist Party'. These words are not mine, they are from his socialist colleague Guillermo FernándezVara. Do you agree with Mr Fernández Vara? You've been in politics from an early age. Were you imagining yourself as a key piece of a government that, for the first time in our democracy, has not only whitewashed but has raised the state leadership to age and independence? You said yesterday in the Senate that what this government is doing is completely changing the conversational dynamics. No, minister, the problem does not lie in talking: it is the absolute contempt of this government for the Spanish Constitution and the Spanish. Minister, listen to me, leave, resign, because you're still in time. No change compensates for the betrayal of Spain or its principles. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u59	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u60	Your Honor, the change this government wants for this country is for its improvement, for its permanent improvement, as we have always been in the institutions. [[Rumors]] And with regard to your question, my answer, because you ask the Government and the Government answers: Follow the Rules of Procedure of the House, because yesterday I discovered that you have not yet assumed it and internalized it and, of course, you do not respect it at all. [[Applauds]] For insults you made yesterday to a socialist deputy. That's insults, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Your concept of a country is so small that it is believed that it is only up to those who think like you, but this democracy is broad and diverse and here we are all, including you. And do you know what's going on, Your Honor? That you are not so far away from those radical independenceists you criticize, because, when you skip the Rules of Procedure of this House, when you do not comply with the rules, you are also deteriorating the institutions and thereby weakening the state. [[Applauds]] Stop facing some Spaniards in front of others, leave behind the nostalgia of inquisition and persecution, comply with the Constitution, respect the institutions, take care of our democracy: that is to want and take care of our country. Furthermore, as a spokesman for the Government, if it is not much to ask you to be respectful of the media and its professionals, because when you are out there you are doing your job, but you are also ensuring that a constitutional right such as the right to information of all citizens of this country is respected, so you respect all professionals. [[applause]] My support for the fellow Member, but also for all the women. And I will tell you that this government is not going to tire of working to advance rights and expand majorities that prevent you from bringing back to this country your retrograde approaches, which bring back Spanish society in centuries. [[Applauds]] What I regret is not to have in this country a moderate right like the German right, which, whatever happens this week in your elections, will never rely on an extreme right like the one you represent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT IS PROVIDED TO IMPULSE THE NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH STRATEGY APPROVED BY THIS CAMERA IN JULY 2020? [[File number 180/00631]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u61	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u62	Minister, when is your government planning to implement the national mental health strategy adopted by this House in July 2020?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u63	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u64	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say first that, while my head is here, my heart shrinks with La Palma, and what I ask is support and solidarity from this House, and no reproach, no reproach, no reproach, ladies and gentlemen. The palm people need the unity and support of all of you. [[Applauds]] Mrs Arrimadas, as I said at the last control session, we are working intensively to bring the mental health strategy to an end at this session.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u65	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u66	All our support, of course, for the citizens of La Palma at these difficult times. Minister, I don't know if you know the case of Kira López, a 15-year-old girl who took her life a few months ago in Barcelona. [[Show a picture]] School harassment is allegedly behind this tragedy. I, by the circumstances, met Kira, and her parents ask us all not to be a figure, to know her story and to work together so that she does not take a step like hers again, because, unfortunately, in Spain there are many Kiras, more than ten Spaniards a day commit suicide, being already the first non-natural cause of death in our country and doubling hers to the number of traffic accidents. Among young people, it is the first cause of death, and suicide and self-injury attempts have been fired at 250% with the pandemic. Undoubtedly, suicide is the most dramatic part, but it is only a part of mental health problems. Anxiety, depression, compulsive obsessive disorders, eating disorders are a growing drama, and parents are concerned that mental health problems are affecting more and more children and adolescents, while in some cases sexual abuse or school harassment may be behind or aggravating these situations. This worry takes away the dream of many Spanish families from left, right or center. That is why we all, the Government, the opposition, parties of all ideologies, have a moral obligation to work together and prioritize this issue. In fact, we have already achieved a broad consensus in this House. I would like to remind you that since Citizens - you will remember, because it was recognized by the Minister - we have promoted this national mental health strategy, which was adopted in July last year, which included a suicide prevention plan, more resources for early detection, increased psychologists and psychiatrists, because we are in the middle of the European ratio, and campaigns to fight taboos. In short, Minister, I ask you not to do the usual thing with this important subject, which is to make announcements and promises that you never arrive. I ask you, please, to fully implement the national mental health strategy. This should be a priority in the budgets, in the negotiations, in the Governing Councils, in everything. Therefore, print it out already, because there is no more time or more lives to lose. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u67	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, we share concerns, concerns and longings about the question you are asking, so much so that the Government of Spain is putting mental health at the epicenter of public health policies. It is true that we are facing a latent health problem and that what the pandemic has done has been to increase and exacerbate all mental health issues. By the way, there is too much taboo regarding mental health: when we have some problem referring to any other part of our body we have no difficulty talking about it; instead, about mental health yes, even when some Member of this House has uttered some insult, absolutely regrettable. It is therefore essential that we talk about this. In addition, I want to share what the Government is doing. We have already created the specialty of child psychiatry and adolescence, which is very important, something highly demanded and which will be part of the next call for specialized health training. We are already updating, I want to tell you that it is already a reality. In fact, we have received around seven hundred allegations and contributions, and we are doing so to approve it with consensus and from governance, with the autonomous communities within the interterritorial council, but, of course, also with scientific societies and, of course, patient associations. Last September 10 was the Day of Prevention against Suicide, a day to stir our consciences. I'm sure some of us have had some shocking experience when someone decides to take their own life. Of course, this minister offers work, commitment and determination to place mental health at the epicenter of the health policies of the Spanish Government and also of this House. I therefore hope to have the consensus in that update of the strategy before the end of this session, and the determinations are already being evaluated by the technical committee. In the institutional committee we are at work, working on a subject that concerns us, deals with us and that is of maximum sensitivity. What I hope and wish for is the support of each and every group in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u69	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the shortcomings in the professional management of the National Health System and the measures envisaged by the Government to address them. For your defense, Mr. Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u71	Wait a second, Mr. Echaniz. I ask you, please, a little silence to continue the session.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, health professionals are the main asset of the National Health System, a cardinal element of our care model, which is among the most valued in all social studies, including the Health Barometer. The training and training of our healthcare professionals is recognized throughout the world, so they are strongly demanded of their services in many countries of our environment and therefore represent an essential value not only of our health system, but also of the brand Spain. If our health model, ladies and gentlemen, is highlighted and taken as a benchmark at the international level, it is largely due to the good day-to-day work, commitment, dedication and skills of our professionals both from the clinical point of view and from the research prism and also from the perspective of teaching. However, Minister, the educational, work and remunerative situation of professionals in the National Health System as a whole, under your responsibility, is currently not up to your vocation and performance. Your Honor, the applause with which Spanish society has indiscriminately rewarded health professionals for their example in dedication, leadership and sacrifice has not been accompanied by measures of recognition and motivation on the part of the governments of Pedro Sánchez. Not only that, since you have ruled has your situation worsened in a very important way, because you have made deaf ears to all your problems from the beginning. Madam Minister, your ignorance of the system, and that of your predecessor, cannot be an excuse to do nothing. Antonio Machado said that everything that is ignored is despised. Do you know, Your Honor, that about 150,000 professionals have become infected and that more than 120 have died? Do you know that two courts have opened proceedings against the former minister, Mr Illa, and also against Mr Simon for the defective material that was provided to the professionals and the violation of workers' rights, because their lack of foresight for two months caused them to have to work with garbage bags to protect themselves? Do you know, Your Honor, that you will have to report to the Committee of Inquiry into Barajas Airport in the Community of Madrid? You, Minister, have not only left millions of people behind, but have also violated the rights of health workers, professionals who have been permanently denied decision-making during the pandemic, professionals with name and surnames with impeccable training and experience, with other epidemics behind them, but who have been supplanted by political committees of anonymous people who have hidden themselves from society; professionals, Your Honor, who have witnessed with stupefaction how their ministry ended up with the choice of specialized training places in real time and which provoked historic strikes by doctors and students; professionals who are now amazed at how you incorporate into the infamous agenda of humiliation with the Government of Catalonia the negotiation to break the MIR, to transfer specialized health training as a paradigm of assignment, of surrender to independence. It is a direct attack on equality, on the cohesion of Spanish public health and destroys an exemplary model of objective and unique success over the last fifty years, to one of the essential pillars of the National Health System, generating endogamy and an irreparable fracture in the system of training our health professionals and their level of excellence, and, believe me, it will be casus belli in Spanish health. These are professionals, Your Honor, who witnessed astonishments that you reject the opportunity to create an Erasmus MIR despite having the funds and support of the doctors, that you allow a Simula application that exposed personal data of the MIRs, which is still a crime; professionals who observe with deep displeasure how in calling MIR places of family and community doctors for primary care not only do not increase but decrease the places in a moment of significant shortage of professionals - and we could say the same of the rest of the specialties -, at a time when we already know that in the next ten years 70,000 doctors will retire in our country. What are you doing, Minister, to address this problem? Is she going to keep getting her arms crossed? Where are the 1088 million pledged in the general state budgets? Why do they continue, Your Honor, without solving the problem of tutors, which is limiting training? They are professionals, Minister, who do not understand your position in the face of recognition of the status of profession of risk, nor do they understand what else you have to do for you to approve the specialty of emergencies and emergencies, especially after the experience of this whole pandemic. What are you going to do, Your Honor, with the speciality decree? Minister, the health workers do not understand your absolute passivity in the face of abuses, insults, harassment of scientists and health professionals of recent times. Nor do they understand the inappropriate, tendentious, unjust attack, in the words of the Spanish Society of Gynecology and Obstetrics, on the part of the Government of Pedro Sánchez on gynecologists, who are, by the way, mostly women, and which involves so-called obstetric macho violence. Nor do they understand, Your Honor, the Government's position in the face of the firing by WhatsApp of four thousand Valencian health workers, perhaps because he has made them his own party. But what is worse - believe me - is that the government of Pedro Sánchez announces the evaluation of the performance of the professionals of the National Health System during the pandemic. This government, which continues to fail to fulfil its commitment to independently audit its management, following the denunciation of The Lancet and with the support of the entire scientific community, wants to audit health professionals. The government of Pedro Sánchez, which has not launched either the vaccination investigation commission of this Congress approved six months ago or the Congress-Senate Joint Committee for the Evaluation of COVID to which the president of the government committed in June last year, almost a year and a half ago, nor the commission of inquiry on the progress of the Reconstruction Commission; the most opaque government of democracy, the less transparent government, which gives no account, wants to audit the doctors and nurses of our country. The Government of Pedro Sánchez, which does not record either the Public Health Commission or the Inter-Territorial Council of the National Health System or the Coronavirus Assessment and Monitoring Commission, which will leave a painful void in the essential records of a pandemic, and of you, for those who are included in the agenda of an appearance of up to fifty-five matters by our group and for those who do not account for any of them, wants to audit the health professionals, probably, Your Honor, in order to try to charge them with the serious mistakes of your Government. In their schizophrenic flight from political and social burning they have come to propose to investigate the polio epidemic of 1956, but they are not able to investigate what you have done in the past two years, now resulting in more than 120,000 deaths and almost five million infected. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Pedro Sánchez can boast of zero progress in the short, medium and long-term objectives that have been committed since 2019 in the strategic framework of primary health care. Madam Minister, primary care needs urgent reform, a reform that allows it to be comprehensive, accessible, responsive, participatory and high-quality; a reform that allows our professionals to be even better trained in new skills, motivated and adapted to demand and health problems; a reform that incorporates better funding and avoids the current shortage of human resources, massive consultations, aggressions, timelessness, lack of motivation, bureaucracy, the problem of future short-term retirements, especially that of pediatricians, and therefore the essential generational relevance. Minister, the coordinators of primary care reforms, the Director-General for Professional Management, resigned. Where is the State Register of Health Professionals? The People's Party approved the Law on the Organization of Health Professions, the Framework Statute for Health Professionals, the Register of Health Professionals, agreements with professional colleges and trade unions, the professional forum, the working group on human resources, but what have you done for professionals, if you are not even complying with the previous agreements, none of the thirteen recommendations in this area addressed by the working group of the inter-territorial council on human resources, absolutely necessary and that make up - I say to you, Your Honor - our political alternative? Minister, with your management the concern of professionals and Spanish society is at its peak. We continue without a pandemic law, the Constitutional Court has arbitrarily and unlawfully laid down the states of alarm, we continue without a public health agency, we continue without a strategic reserve of health material, we continue without developing mechanisms for preparation and response to new health emergencies, we continue with maximum vulnerability and without instruments, we continue to lack a policy, a planning of health human resources in the National Health System, which is vital and also within its competence. Minister, the health professionals are sick of it. You have been ruling for three and a half years and have done nothing, you have not solved a single problem, but you have managed, yes, to aggravate everyone. The health management of this Government has been court-martial. Minister, get to work now; health professionals demand it and Spanish society demands it and demands it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning again. I only agree with you on the importance of health professionals to our National Health System. Moreover, before I go on to tell you what this minister and this ministry are doing for them and for them, I will tell you what they have not done. Of course, this ministry and this minister have not closed down any health centre or prevented any hospital from being opened on their land, as you have done. Those are the differences between you and us. That's what they do all the time, because you say there's no strategic reserve? You don't know her? I see you don't know many things, Mr. Echaniz. I want to begin by recognizing and thanking the important value that health professionals always have, which are the backbone of the National Health System, but especially during this health crisis, in which they have played a key role, and also in the vaccination campaign, especially nursing staff. As you know, our country is a world leader thanks to the collective success of a country made by all and by all. Within the framework of professional management, the Ministry of Health has been working on different measures to ensure an adequate number of professionals with adequate skills and to ensure that their professional practice is carried out in the best conditions. Human resources planning is, of course, a complex issue and involves different actors, not only the Ministry of Health, which has coordination competence. In its obvious intervention, intentionally, it is the autonomous communities that have the competence to manage health. It has also obvious that the Spanish Government for the first time has given a huge amount of resources, especially for the health area - last year more than €9 billion, which you too obviously have - for example, to proceed with all kinds of recruitment of various human resources. The policy of coordination in relation to human resources management is not only between ministry and autonomous communities, but also with the general councils of professional colleges and, of course, with trade union organizations and all professionals in particular. I would like to comment that among the actions we are carrying out is the impetus to the State Register of Health Professions, the one known as REPS, which is a fundamental tool for the planning of our health professionals. In addition, it is very important to include the 309,093 professionals we have registered with all health degrees, both university and professional health training. We are inviting all autonomous communities to join this REPS, especially those that have not yet done so, as well as private health centres. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Health is working on updating the supply and need study of medical specialists for the horizon 2021-2035, a study complementary to the REPS, to estimate the need of health professionals that we will have in the future, through a simulation model, a submodel of supply with data such as those of new graduates, specialist offers and needs that the system will have. We hope this study will be available in early 2022. This projection puts us at the level of other countries with models similar to our European environment. The Human Resources Commission of the National Health System, in which the Autonomous Communities and the Autonomous Cities are involved, also agreed in July 2021 to set up a working group for the preparation - already in this - of the provision of health training places in the call 2022-2023 of the ESF, which for the first time will meet in mid-October. We have set an annual schedule for the preparation of the offer, starting with the submission of applications from 1 October this year. With regard to the call for specialized health training places, I would like to comment and share with this House that, despite the fact that your Government, Mr Echaniz, has only reversed the cuts in health care professionals and specialized health training, Pedro Sánchez has increased year after year, since he is in the Government, the offer of specialized health training and, with it, also the offer of MIR. The ministerial order approving the call for access in 2022 has already been published. The tests will begin on January 29, 2022, which brings us back to the usual ESF schedule we had before the pandemic. Although it is true that we start with difficulties, the telematic application of the ESF no longer questions it, no one doubts it, starting with all the main actors, such as the organizations that are part of the Forum of Professions, a collegiate consultative body, as you know, of the Ministry of Health itself. It has been a very important boost, because what makes no sense is that we are talking about digitisation in the twenty-first century and yet it does not apply in each and every area. In addition, the improvements we have implemented have meant that they have all been incorporated; only two places were not incorporated because they were of previous designation. We have already made the offer for this year, with 10 634 places, 4% more than in the previous call, and with a special mention of family and community medicine, for which 2336 places of training are offered, Mr Echaniz - I repeat: 2336 places of training -. You said that there were less - two than in the previous call - when in the previous call there was an increase of more than 10% compared to the previous one; of this you forget, and I do not think it is by chance, rather the contrary. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on a draft royal decree which will regulate the cross-cutting training of specialists in the health sciences, the procedure and the criteria for the creation and revision of the qualifications of specialists in the health sciences and of diplomas in the specific field of training, the access and training of these phases, and we will establish the criteria for them. This draft decree is pending the report of the next ordinary inter-territorial council that we will make before the end of this exercise. The forecast, ladies and gentlemen, is that this project can be approved in the first quarter of 2022. From there, the evaluation and creation of new specialties will be in accordance with this decree. We know that there are many concerns in this respect, but once we have adopted this royal decree we will now consider whether or not to create new health places, in line with the European directive, which I assume we all know and to which we all owe ourselves. I also think it is very important to point out that, with regard to this new ESF offer that we have made, we are working on new ministerial orders for the formal training programme for legal and forensic medicine and also nuclear medicine, which have been set out by the respective national committees. In the coming weeks we will also start the family and community medicine training programme and the accreditation requirements of the teaching units. Mr. Echaniz, do you know - or do you not know - that teaching accreditation is done by the Autonomous Communities? Or do you forget that little big detail? Do you forget that? Obviously, yes. You go back years, when we were not in a decentralized state and the powers are assumed only and exclusively by the Government of Spain, obviating the autonomous state that establishes the Spanish Constitution itself. We know that you are little given to the renewal of organs of the Constitution, but this believed that you had assumed it and that you also supported it. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we are updating in the coming months the programme of child psychiatry and adolescence, which they know is a key issue for the Government and I hope that it is also for this House. Indeed, on the subject of training, Mr Echaniz, we will allocate EUR 10 million up to 2023 for the continuous training of more than ninety thousand professionals in different areas, such as public health surveillance and epidemiology, patient and professional safety, mental health, environmental health, early detection of child abuse, early detection of gender-based violence and so many others, which I assume will also be of interest, especially the training of guardians in specialized health training. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are strengthening the digital skills of more than a thousand health professionals with 3 million in the period 22-23; they are additional resources to which the autonomous communities are already putting in place. We are also working on the accreditation of advanced accreditation diplomas. Your Honor, there are many issues on which we are immersed, something that demonstrates, I believe, for good, the work that the Ministry of Health is carrying out with the autonomous communities within the interterritorial council and, especially, in the Human Resources Commission of the National Health System. Therefore, the Government's commitment to health professionals is clear, ladies and gentlemen, as well as what we need to continue working on. Your scatatrophic vision, as if you had just fallen off a guinea pig, as if you had no responsibility for the health management of the country in recent years, as if you were immaculate. For of immaculate nothing: you are responsible for the situation of temporality, among other things, that health professionals have throughout the National Health System. You're responsible. I understand that we have to work, I have no doubt, and here we are: in relation to temporality, in the forum of professions and, moreover, already working on the amendment of the Staff Regulations, which I believe is essential in order to be able to stop temporality, and above all in the establishment of measures and measures to stimulate, such as family and community medicine in certain geographical areas of our country, especially in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are deploying all our potential in terms of professional management in search of the best conditions for our health personnel, in accordance with territorial cohesion, in accordance with the competitive framework that we have given in our country and also in accordance with the interterritorial council and, therefore, with all the autonomous communities, of course by the hand of health professionals. You have to have them - let me say this - to listen to you say things like those that you have manifested here after the management that your party has done in relation to health and, especially, with regard to health professionals. That you come to reproach in this House that this minister who has not set up a Commission of Inquiry is the sum of the misconceptions. I thought you were clear about the separation of powers, but after hearing it I doubt that you are clear about what that principle you established a long time ago Montesquieu on this issue means. This minister is willing to attend as many times as she needs to. By the way, it is all right with that trifle about my appearances on the Public Health Commission: I am the minister who has appeared most of the entire government, for obvious reasons, for a pandemic. I do not have to be the one to say that the day after I have spoken, you are already presenting forty more initiatives, after having replied to them at the meeting of the Committee on Public Health itself, Your Honor. I don't know what you mean by control and democracy. In any case, Your Honor, this minister will always be available to continue working for the good of public health in this country and especially for our health personnel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I give the floor to Mr. Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you have repeated here literally the same thing Mr Illa said about a year ago. At least you could change roles someday in the ministry so you don't have to endure the same programs, the same bets, that your government never fulfills. Minister, a large part of the health professionals you lead have professional wear syndrome, have burnout, and that is because of a sustained stress situation that exhausts professionals in a physical form as well psychological. 50% of them have depressive symptoms, according to professional schools; 35% have insomnia; 45% have anxiety; 71% have had anxiety and symptoms of post-traumatic stress, especially doctors and nurses. Ladies and gentlemen, healthcare professionals have been doing everything for a long time and in this pandemic they have literally been emptied. His generous, delivered, undefeated behavior, at risk to his own health, has been exciting. Their response to direct exposure to patients with high viral load, lacking material resources, at risk of infecting their own family members, moving away from their own to protect everyone, suffering professionally and handing over the errors of the Government, also subjected to dilemmas and ethical issues in the making of their decisions, has been admirable and unpayable. For that reason, Your Honor, and to minimally reward that exemplary conduct, that attitude and your dedication, we requested an extra pay for health care and exemptions from contributions and taxes from essential workers in the pandemic, and you, Your Honor, said no. They were told that there was money to pay twenty-two ministers, two football teams and all their teams, all their advisers, all their cars, all their expenses, also for Plus Ultra, also for the Falcon to go to the cousins' wedding, to throw it in the purchase of fake material for giving it to friends, to fatten Moncloa as never before had happened, or to create useless ministries or triple subsidies to social workers. For all that, Your Honor, there was money, but to reward the work of doctors and nurses not; for that, no. Madam Minister, if the interest of a government in health is demonstrated by the reforms of improvement, by the motivation of the professionals and by the budget support, which have dedicated 1.5% - I repeat: 1.5% - of the 70 billion plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience demonstrates, as no other example and with absolutely objective data, what you care about health: 1%. Your Honor, that in the largest pandemic we have experienced, they have done nothing, absolutely nothing in mental health, nor in the pandemic, nor in the three and a half years that they have been ruling, demonstrates what matters to them about the health of the Spaniards. That they have not complied with one of the agreements or one of the recommendations of the Reconstruction Commission shows exactly the same. That the Government's greatest contribution has been to put Muface at risk is evidence of what health matters to them. If the European Union had not negotiated and bought the vaccines, if the Spanish had not paid for them, if the autonomous communities had not inoculated them, today the Spanish, of all the political signs, we would be without vaccination. The Government's contribution to the whole process has been, for the most part, a hindrance and, in the case of the second dose of AstraZeneca, a shame for others, an absolute shame for others. Minister, Pedro Sánchez did not worry about changing the minister of health in the middle of the pandemic with the worst figures. The minister was only one year: that is certainly temporary, minister. You will soon be a year old; see if you give it in time to do something before we have to repeat it to your successor. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, with this closing intervention, you have just put on sulfide what the health care providers of this country care about you. He has used demagogy and used the toilets to come here to speak against the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Not for them. Not for them. I don't think everything's good in politics, Mr. Echaniz. Not everything is good in politics, at least this minister is not going to contribute to it, on the contrary. If this initiative has something positive it is to recognize the immense work that all of them and all of them have done, always, but especially at the head of this pandemic. Mr Echaniz, that you talk about vaccination in our country and that you say what you just said, when Spain is referring to the world, demonstrates your political myopia to highlight what is a collective success of the country. [[Applauds]] It is a collective success of a country that has to do with the European Union, with the strategy of early purchase, with the leadership of the Government of Spain, with the work of the autonomous communities and with the commitment of all health professionals, especially nursing, and, of course, with the awareness of our citizen, who is a reference throughout the world. They do not mourn garments for once and sum up, as I have said so many times, to what is a country's success. Of course, what has hurt them is that we have fulfilled the milestones achieved by President Sánchez, something they cannot bear. Instead of joining the country's success, you put yourselves as you do, Mr. Echaniz. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to tell you what we are doing and what we have done: the greatest offer, year after year, since Pedro Sánchez is president, of specialized health training; professional registration; the actual decree in which we are working for the recognition and procedure of the new specialties and, above all, for the modernisation and improvement of the conditions of our health professionals. I think there is a very important way to go - important -. We need to stimulate some issues that concern us, such as family and community medicine and, in particular, the provision of quality services to all parts of the country, especially to the most deprived areas, because citizenship, living where it lives, has the same rights to the same benefits or, which is the same, because - this is the commitment of this government of progress - the postal code does not have to be decisive to see what a person's health is. That is what this Government is concerned about, and of course what it wants is for our healthcare professionals to be in the best possible way, for us to be able to see what needs are present, but especially future needs. Of course, the Ministry of Health has and can do coordination in health policies, in no case supplanting the policies of the autonomous communities that fall within its competence. If you wish otherwise, a decentralization of our State and a change to Title VIII of the Constitution, you must say so. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about some of the issues that I believe are of interest. Today we will hold the interterritorial council, as is customary every Wednesday, and on the agenda will be the performance evaluation. Let us hope that today the members of the council, after a conscientious work, which has come to be bottom-up, from bottom up, we can establish the people who are going to make that assessment of the entire National Health System, but with a clear vision: to improve and be better prepared for future threats, not only epidemics, but of any other kind. And, of course, we must work on each and every one of the issues to which this Government of Progress has committed, many of which are also recognized and reflected in that Reconstruction Commission. In conclusion, I would like to comment that the commitment of the Government of Spain is to continue to make progress in improving and expanding the capacities of our National Health System, all of them, the care capacity, the preventive capacity and, of course, the capacity for professional development, which was what I understood we are dealing with today, but, as I see it, I see that you are concerned about other things. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION OF MENTAL HEALTH IN SPAIN AS A RESULT OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIA. [[File number 172/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u80	We continue with the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the Citizen Parliamentary Group into the situation of mental health in Spain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. For your defense, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u81	Good morning, Mrs Darias, on this day when your participation in this House is very extensive. I will follow the wake of the question you have previously asked Inés Arrimadas. We have called waves to the different moments when the coronavirus later became more or less brutal to the Spaniards, but permanently, along with these waves that were coming and going and drawing the attention of the media, politicians and public opinion, there was an invisible and silent tsunami sustained over time, a devastating tsunami that struck the minds of the Spaniards. It was in July 2020 when Citizens presented the first initiative to talk about this issue. It was approved within the health section at the reconstruction table. This proposal spoke of mental health and, in particular, of a national mental health strategy. From Tucidides, in the History of the Peloponnese War, when he talks about the plague that imprisoned Athens, he warns that the worst evil that struck the Athenian population was discouragement; the biggest blow was discouragement. If you make a tour throughout history you will see that the flu of 1918 is again affected by the same thing: the worst was discouragement. Memories of epidemics in the past point to mood and morale as the most battered. Today we call it mental health, because, although our species has not changed much, science has taught us that there is no health if there is no mental health. Therefore, the first thing that Citizens proposed as soon as the table was convened was to make mental health a priority. Something has been done - I will acknowledge it - but little since we made this proposal. We knew that mental health was going to climb into the concern of the Spaniards. I'm sorry they didn't pay any attention to us then. In all the committees we have asked you - here are the minutes - both Minister Illa and you, to do something about mental health and we have all made proposals. One of the issues that we raised at the time, and which I repeat now, is the need for a national suicide prevention plan. Suicide is the first unnatural cause of death among Spanish people, but do you know that suicide is the first cause of death among young people? They die more from suicide than any other disease. Attempts to commit suicide and self-injury have increased by 250% in the population from 15 to 29. What else has to happen? We know that suicides have increased alarmingly, but we also know that because of superstition and taboo it will not be clearly stated. Suffering kills twice as many as traffic accidents and is also a suffering that extends to families who are hit by a suicide death. They suffer twice: the death of the loved one and then the misunderstanding of society. This sentence is real: I would have gone to your sister's wake if she hadn't committed suicide. A suicide survivor told me. It is a recognition of the misunderstanding and the veil that falls on this evil, which kills much more than others, but to which virtually no public media are devoted. One of the things that Citizens asked Salvador Illa at the time, and that he fulfilled, was to send to the media how to treat suicide, with recommendations of form and content in the information - it cannot be treated of any way - because there is no evidence that reporting suicide provokes imitation; instead, there is evidence that suicide can be prevented, there are recognizable signs, there are also uncertain topics. It's good that society knows when a suicide has occurred. Society must never be protected from the truth, because hiding the truth is very similar to lying. Spanish society is prepared to know the truth about suicide. The media must report on suicide for two reasons: one, because they are people who had a life and a family, is not a figure, and the other for a question that already counted this morning Inés Arrimada, the case of Kira. We also ask you something that we know would be very useful, a three-digit phone for those who have such thoughts. If you know how well other three-digit phones have worked, let's put in a three-digit phone, please. This is not expensive and can save lives from tomorrow. Take this sentence on fire: Whoever commits suicide does not want to die, wants to stop suffering. This idea is fundamental. They do not want to die; what they want is for suffering to cease that accompanies them 24 hours a day, because they are people who often do not even sleep. And I'm linked to another need that affects suicide, but it has an impact on mental health in general. Do you think it's normal that someone who calls asking a mental health professional for a date in six months? I mean, someone with anxiety or depression goes to their primary health center, asks for help and they give you an appointment for six months. And while? Mental health cannot be a luxury for those who can afford it, it is a right, because the right to health care exists, and someone who has no mental health has no health. But we need to know more: how many parents see with concern a change in their children's habits after the months of confinement - young and adolescent children - Do we know how the pandemic has affected those who are in age when they begin to learn and train in their social environment outside the family? Do we know how confinement has affected teenagers? At times when social relationships are shaping personality, the pandemic has for a year truncated the way we relate socially to our children. A year in those ages is an eternity. I give you another fact: pediatric children's emergencies have doubled during the pandemic. And eating behavior disorders, increasingly severe: anxiety, depression, self-injury and suicide attempts. Also, an alarming increase in compulsive obsessive disorder, OCD. By the way, there's no census of these diseases. We find no statistics, for example, of how many people are affected by OCD, by compulsive obsessive disorder; therefore, we cannot measure how the pandemic has actually affected this disorder. There is only one evidence: that things are worse than before. What about the older ones? How has it impacted on the older ones the confinement, seeing each day pass as another stolen opportunity to see children and grandchildren? How many died alone? How many friends, fellow residents, have you seen die in solitude? How has this affected those who witnessed this drama? By the way, there were political leaders who incited the fear of the older ones by saying here, at the gates of Congress, that it was being applied in the residences of the euthanasia by the way of the facts. I tell them to apologize for that statement, because they knew they were lying, and I tell them why: if euthanasia was being applied by the way of the facts, why did this group, which was VOX, vote against a Commission of Inquiry into Residences in the Madrid Community, which supported Citizens, including the Government? What is more, I say to you: when has a political party in the Government supported a Commission of Inquiry from its own Government? I think that's why we're so annoying sometimes. But on the other side of the ring, Mrs Darias, was not the government - in this case the behavior, both of you and of Salvador Illa, has been exquisite - but yes the PSOE and Podemos in this House, where they blamed the deaths of the autonomous communities of different political sign, coming to say that Spain cast high numbers of deaths because Madrid is in Spain. That was said by a representative of the Socialist Party, little less said that they were people who killed the People's Party. And while, our compatriots struggled to survive, not to be ruined, burying their loved ones in solitude; the Spaniards fighting discouragement, against anxiety, fear, depression, and their political class, once again, with absolutely lost land grabbing, seeking the vote in the harvest of pain. I believe that most of the debates here are disconnected from what worries the Spaniards most, but I think we can recover all the land grab with what I'm going to read to you next. They are testimonies that have told us the Planet Association TOC - of compulsive obsessive disorder - to see if they make us reflect on everyone. I read them the first, which is from a health care provider: 'I am a health care provider. My work in the pandemic required isolation in contact with my family, but now I see I've lost the north. I'm on leave for depression, but, honestly, I can't tell anyone that I still can't touch my three-year-old son. God, I'm a mother and I can't touch it, I can't, I can't. I know it sounds like I'm going crazy, but I know it's not possible to get infected in the background, but when I'm going to catch him, the bastard shows up in my head: what if? He cries and says I don't love him. He says I'm mean and I don't want to sleep. My husband doesn't understand and my family goes down. I just don't think I can go on like this and the damage I'm doing to everyone, but, above all, to my son.' This is a testimony. Another testimony, in this case of a Spanish family too, what it says: 'My ten-year-old son can't make a normal life. His terrible fear of something happening to us makes him perform rituals continuously. Walk it several times, forward and backward. Open and close the doors several times. It gives a number of certain strokes on the wall. Read each sentence several times. I can't see him suffer. He says he just wants to turn off his head, but he can't.' He wants to turn off his head, but he can't! Ten years. This is what happens in Spain, while here we dedicate ourselves to saying barbarities. We have to face that in Spain we do not have a National Health System capable of absorbing this demand for mental health professionals. If in the European Union the average number of psychiatrists is 17.2 per 100,000 inhabitants, in Spanish it is 9.8; if we look at psychologists, the average in Spain is 16.2 while in Europe it is 29.9. We have put forward a proposal to increase this ratio so that no more than 5000 inhabitants can be exceeded by each mental health professional. The training of professionals for early detection of subjects such as those I have described is vital, as many mental health problems arise through the primary care door. It is also important to diagnose disorders of eating behavior or autistic spectrum on time. We need to address mental health from a broad perspective, including social, cultural and educational work. The media can work together, the public media must work together. This afternoon I will ask President Radiotelevision Española in the Control Commission this afternoon, I will tell him that it is necessary to promote awareness campaigns to eliminate taboos and prejudices that weigh on mental health problems, making them even more serious. It is important to take cultural references of the younger ones: sportsmen, professionals of the world of culture and entertainment, influencers or youtubers, personalities with great ability to penetrate the younger ones. I will give you a recognition - and you know that when I have to do them, I do them -; one step has of course been the recognition of this specialty, of child psychiatry and adolescence, and I congratulate you on that. For my part, I also did not wish that they would fail to meet the 70% vaccination target, and I congratulated him on it in the Commission, and I hope it would have been 80. I know we don't earn anyone anything if they don't, I hope they do all the government's goals. In the answer I will deal with more questions, but he ended up telling him only that we take down the taboo, dismantle the myths, look at the suffering face to face, we are next to the sufferer, so that no Spanish feels alone, so that the families know that they matter, that we will help each other, because in this, no more or less, it is what a country consists of. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Díaz, I thank you for the initiative and I also thank you for the intervention you have made, and especially for the tone of it. The Government is of course very aware of the need to place mental health at the epicentre of our policies, as I have said. Let us speak in this House and let us also do so in a moderate tone, recognizing the existing reality, but also trying to open the way where it is not easy I think it is very important, it also means that this House takes the pulse of reality. We bring concrete problems and when you talk about concrete cases - which we can all have in mind - we are somehow humanizing politics, and I think it is a fundamental part of our daily and daily work. Before the pandemic broke into our lives, among the coalition agreements of the political forces that make up the Government of Spain, there was already a point that addressed mental health, there was a commitment by both forces to update the Mental Health Strategy - I quote textually - to build a true system of care, with a gender and human rights approach, and to address all people who present such health problems. Therefore, the first issue I would like to highlight is the focus that the political forces that make up the Government had already placed on this issue. But also, ladies and gentlemen, as you have just mentioned, Mr Díaz, the initiatives that have been presented by different groups, including your own, and also the opinion of the Committee on Reconstruction, which also explicitly mentions the need to promote a mental health strategy that significantly increases investment, and sets up a genuine comprehensive care system, and something very important, that combats stigmatisation. I think this is fundamental, because talking about this today in some way can also contribute - at least that I hope - to normalizing it, that we can talk about a health problem of our body, of any part of it, without being stigmatizing anyone and, of course, with a gender approach, which the pandemic has also shown us the need to focus on it from this gender point of view. As I told you last week and today also in answer to Mrs Arrimadas' question, we are already on this issue. We have created, as you have said, the specialty of child psychiatry and adolescence; it will be part of the next ESF call for next year. And, as I said in my previous speech, in the part of continuing training until 2023 there are 10 million euros, including also mental health, because it is very important not only to have good specialists, as we are already doing with the creation of this new specialty, but also a continuous training of those who already have it, and above all in line with the changing needs that are emerging. Therefore, first of all, I would like to state, as I have done with clarity, clearly, the determination and commitment of the Government to place mental health at the epicentre of our public policies, because it is true that during the pandemic we have talked a lot about the health consequences, of course - a pandemic - also the economic consequences and even the social consequences. Many experts say that more than just talking about the pandemic, we need to talk about the pandemic because of the consequences of another area beyond health care. But we have talked little about the consequences of mental health, and I somehow believe that they are very appropriate interventions such as those of today to situate it, and so that we know what we are doing from the Government of Spain and go walking together with the contributions that your ladies and gentlemen can make, because it is not only a matter of having a consensus with the autonomous communities and with the autonomous cities, which of course is vital, but also with the scientific societies that are part of the whole ecosystem, which are very important, and of course with the associations of patients and families and with this House. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a health problem that is not new at all. Maybe the new thing is that I was silenced before and now I'm not. I believe that we have taken a very important step: from silence to debate, and also now to the government action being taken by the Spanish Government. It is true that the pandemic has been encouraging, in some way exacerbating what was already there as a latent problem. I do want to comment that, before we can think about it, we have a regulatory system in the various lists of health laws that we have in our country that address the problem. Therefore, I would like to share with you that already the General Health Law, the great legacy of our dear Ernest Lluch - a reminder to him - already recognized the importance of mental health care, that people suffering from this type of health problem should have assistance. Moreover, we have changed that old idea, which is certainly unacceptable today, of an asylar character in centres known as asylums - you will recall - with little possibility of psychosocial rehabilitation, without expectation of recovery, to a new model that begins to be based on Ernest Lluch's law until now. Also, the Ministerial Commission for Psychiatric Reform, which in 1985 published the general document of recommendations for psychiatric reform and mental care, already gave an important revolution in the transformation of how we had to do the approach. Why am I saying this? Because I think we have enough regulatory framework, I think we are not facing a regulatory deficit problem, I don't think so, beyond the need to improve, but I don't think that's the approach. We have to move on to action. That is, the Mental Health Strategy, as you know, has not been updated since 2009. I am not going to talk about the difficulties that the former minister, María Luisa Carcedo, and I have had here; we know the difficulties that have been encountered, but we have made a renewal of all the coordination teams to put in place and distribute a mental health strategy that is being worked on, seven hundred contributions and allegations that I believe are very important. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what I want to share with you is the need to be able - and in that we are working intensively - that, before the end of the session, we have approved this Mental Health Strategy; a strategy that, of course, comes to respond to what the surveys and sociological studies that we have come to say, as you have rightly said: that there is now more incidence of depression, anxiety, disorders and post-traumatic stress. The people of this country, men and women, but especially women, are afraid and have passed fear in this pandemic. You reported some cases that talk about it, like what you said your head wanted to stop, because it wanted to stop suffering. We have also lost joy and lost interest, and sometimes we don't know why we don't want to get up. It's as simple as this. If we talk about more common issues, people may not see a mental health problem so far. It's something that can happen to any of us at a certain time, like not wanting to even get up, because we can't even get up with ourselves. Sociological data tell us that there has been an increase in the consumption of prescription-free hypnosedant drugs, especially, as I said, in women; and in people who had previous mental health problems, they have been aggravated. For these powerful reasons, Mr. Díaz and all his ladies and gentlemen, we are updating the Mental Health Strategy. Allow me briefly to say a few words about the importance of co-governance, because of the competence we have. The first Mental Health Strategy emerged from a profound reform of society's view of mental health, but that change initiated then has continued to evolve unstoppablely, allowing for a more complex, more comprehensive and, above all, more inclusive look; I believe that it can also be the gender approach and respect for human rights that place this new strategy. I will give some brushstrokes on the orientation of the Mental Health Strategy, as I would like to share them, informally or formally, with your ladies and gentlemen, beyond the work we are doing on a previous basis. I want to share with you that this is a strategic framework under construction, but there are some issues that are clear. First, we must improve autonomy, reduce stigma and limit involuntary interventions to the maximum, as we want patients to recover in the most ambitious sense of the word. That is why we have taken decisive steps, ladies and gentlemen, which derive from our strategic vision of mental health, and which rotate on the following vectors or objectives. Firstly, the need to ensure the autonomy and rights of patients, placing people at the centre of recovery, as I believe it is essential to involve them in this. Secondly, something that I believe is absolutely essential - you have mentioned it in your speech and, also, Mrs Arrimadas - as an improvement in the capacities of our health system in terms of prevention, early detection and care for people with suicidal behaviour. The improvement of mental health in childhood and adolescence, which is key, as we are seeing how these age groups are also hitting these health problems. Also, of course, you will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, on the importance of care and family intervention, because it is not only a question of intervening and helping patients, but also their family environment, because they will understand the conditions that families have for people with mental health problems. In addition, the fight against stigmatization, the promotion of social visibility, which is key. I believe that with debates like this we are contributing positively to social visibility and, in some way, if not to normalize, yes in order to be able to talk about it without taboos and without fear. And something very important, in relation to the first cause of external death in our country, suicide; as you know, last September 10th was celebrated the day for the prevention of suicide, a day that I would say is to stir our consciences. It is true that there are days on the calendar that we would not want them to exist, because it means that there is no cause to motivate them. For this minister this would be one of them. We have all been able to have close experiences, pains, and it is true that, as you rightly said, Mr Díaz, the pain of loss is joined by guilt and wonders if one could have done something else, and that is something with which it is difficult to continue day by day, but we must continue. Therefore, one of the main axes and vectors that the Mental Health Strategy will have is the prevention against suicide. When discussing mental health, as we already do, it is tremendously important to do so in this home of citizenship. I therefore recognize the importance of this initiative, Mr Díaz. It has at its disposal this minister and the ministry to continue working in a framework of joint action in the interterritorial council, with scientific societies, with patient associations and, of course, ladies and gentlemen, with this House. I think this is important, because this is an issue that deserves unanimous consensus, and I hope so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u85	Thank you. Madam Minister, Mrs Darias, in fact, this debate had two objectives. One, focus on the matter. In fact, the question of control was also aimed at focusing on this issue because we believe that it is an issue that should be on the agenda every day, which should also be on the budget agenda, and not other issues that we believe are being discussed. The second objective of this debate, in addition to focusing, was to make proposals to it. You know that I am sometimes, let me say the word - some fellow of my ranks tells me -, intensive. In the Commission I am very insistent on the issues and this is going to be a constant that accompanies me, because I think it is the absolute good. I know that you are very aware of this issue - as Mr Illa was - and I know that the means are limited, but I also know that there are issues that have an economic magnitude, but others do not. I'll give you the example of this three-digit phone measure. It's not a very expensive infrastructure and it's proven to work. Look at the success of the phone against gender-based violence. It is a phone that solves problems and, above all - for someone who in this case faces a situation that is above all an inner state - to have someone on the other side of the phone specialized in the matter, who understands how he feels, who explains what happens to him, can be fundamental at a time when, for example, someone is alone in his house at high hours of the night. Someone with a mental illness - and that's why I read him the testimony of the child who said he wanted to turn off his head, but he couldn't - has some peculiarities different from other diseases, which is that they accompany all the time. Some have the physical sensation of having a ball inside the brain, even pressure. I think it's very important that these things are known and that someone, when they have a family member, a friend or see certain symptoms in a person, understands what's going on, doesn't say what's weirder going on here, what's unfortunately still going on today. But we can also help answer the question of what's happening to me, why I don't get up in the morning; what's happening to me, why I cry nonsense; what's happening to me, why I have concerns that I didn't have before, issues that I don't care or worry about things that rationally wouldn't have to worry about, and keep me from going on with my normal life. What's happening to me? That's where we all have to be and fight the stigmas. This is almost as important as the means to help people recover their mental health, how we can fight stigma. I have already told you, there are personalities who can help, there are some people who are telling their experiences and are doing very well, but also, Mrs Darias, I have brought you, for you to see them, the recommendations for the treatment of suicide - this can be extended to mental health - that they launched from the ministry. It's very well done, it was a great job and I congratulated Minister Illa at the time. This can be expanded. The media can play a key role. The public media, Spanish Radio Television and Spanish National Radio, can help a lot in this. I'm already telling you that this afternoon I'm going to tell the president of Spanish Radio Television, because I'm convinced that, someone who sees television and tells him something that he feels identified with, he's going to find himself better, he's going to see a door to hope, a door to get out. Look, the CIS mental health survey of 2021 produced very worrying data, which is available to everyone, and it does make us see one question: the biologically human being is not prepared to face dangers that never end up realising. We, biologically, are set to face dangers that begin and end; a pandemic, a state of anxiety, a permanent concern for your child, biologically, neurologically, we are not prepared for that state of continuous alarm; and that is what is doing much harm to Spanish society. Mrs Darias, here you have the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, here you have us, we are going to make many proposals to you; what I ask you to do is to take those that you consider most appropriate. I consider them all opportune, of course. Thank you very much and thank you for your attention today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u87	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Díaz, the proposals you have made and others are being considered in this update - as I have already said - and our priority is to be able to conclude as soon as possible, when the technical committee values all the allegations I have commented on. I think it is important - I agree with you - to have debates like this, that not only in the Committee on Public Health, but also in the plenary of this House we can discuss, share - I think that in this case it is the most appropriate word - reflections, share concerns, share concerns, and also share proposals and answers, which I believe is what citizens need. Of course, I do not care that it is intensive, I appreciate it, you know that on that part we agree, because I believe that what shows is the interest and the concern to be able to respond to a demand that is right now in our society. If I think it is necessary to highlight the work that the media are doing, some dedicated to important confessions that perhaps put some person as a reference in our country, that at a certain time has not been able to do something, and that sometimes say: I can't do it, it doesn't matter, because it means that we are human and that we can also fail on certain issues; because we are only prepared to succeed or to succeed, and sometimes, when we don't reach it, we fall all the cards on it. Therefore, I would like to acknowledge this work and a decalogue that we have drawn up since the Ministry of Health on 10 September, a decalogue to the media, where we talked about the importance of saying what was going on in relation to suicide, leaving behind that which could not be talked about, that it was taboo, and with a series of recommendations on how to do it, without a disease, without scathing details that do not lead to anything, but allow the matter to be made visible. Of course, while citizenship is true that it is sometimes not prepared to take on certain issues, those who have public responsibilities do have to be prepared for others to be prepared to deal with those problems when they happen. Therefore, the commitment and determination of the Government of Spain is to carry out this update that allows to clear the way, to create a constructive framework, where the autonomous communities, from a competitive point of view, can develop it by the hand of health professionals and also by the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - APPLICATION FOR COMPARISON OF THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AND MIXTO, TO EXPLAIN THE GOVERNMENT'S REPRESENTATION CHANGE ON THE REFORM OF THE ANNOUNCED FINANCING SYSTEM ON THE GROUND OF THE MEETING ON 15 June 2021 BETWEEN THE MINISTRY AND THE MEMBERS OF THE VALENT PLATOFORM FOR JUST FINANCING, AND IN WHICH THE MINISTRY AND THE MEMBERS OF THE VALENT PLATOFORM THOUGHT TO COMPLETE THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT AND THE MOTION APPROVED AT THE CONGRESION OF THE DEPUTIES TO PROPOSE A NEW FINANCING SYSTEM BEFORE THE end of 2021. [[File number 210/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u89	We continue with the agenda item on the appearance of the Minister of Finance and Public Service before the plenary of the House, requested by the parliamentary groups Plural and Mixto, to explain the government's sudden change on the reform of the funding system announced on the occasion of the meeting held on 15 June 2021 between the Minister and the members of the Valencian platform Per un Finance Just in which it stated that it intends to breach the investment agreement and the motion adopted in the Congress of Deputies to submit a proposal for a new funding system before the end of 2021. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to report on the state of play in the reform of the autonomous financing system and I do so, as the President has read, at the request of Mr Joan Baldoví, the Plural Parliamentary Group and Mr Pedro Quevedo, the Joint Parliamentary Group. I would like to tell you that this is not the first time that you have asked me about the need to agree on a new funding system and I therefore believe you are well aware of the Government's position on this issue. However, I would be happy to inform you about the progress that is being made in this debate and also about something that seems tremendously important to me, which is how we have managed during these two years to protect the welfare state during this pandemic thanks to a battery of measures that we have promoted from the Spanish Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the welfare state rests primarily in the autonomous communities; they are the ones that hold most of the competences in basic public services: health, education, social services and dependency, among others. I will start with this last idea, for how during this pandemic we have shielded the welfare state so that the autonomous communities will have sufficient resources to guarantee quality public services at a time when no one escapes that it is of extraordinary tension and multiple needs. They will remember that the crisis not only involved a sharp increase in spending to strengthen health, educational or social services, but also came accompanied by a sharp fall in tax revenues. This combination - an increase in spending needs and a fall in income - could put at risk the liquidity of the autonomous communities and, therefore, the provision of public services, which are more necessary than ever for all citizens. That is why the Government has adopted a series of measures that have been unpublished with a single clear objective that it was no other than that the system of financing autonomous communities will remain outside the pandemic. In other words, to shut down the economic cycle affecting all the administrations of the resources that are received by the financing system; that is, to make everyone understand us, as if the economic crisis did not have an impact within the framework of the autonomous communities. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this idea and this political objective allow me to state with complete clarity that I share with your ladies and gentlemen that the autonomous communities deserve better funding, but that never in history - and we must recognise this - have been better financed than in the past two years, and that is valid for all the territories without exception. I'll give you some data. In four years with Pedro Sánchez the autonomous communities have received 36% more resources than in the last four years from Mr Rajoy. I think it is a figure that cannot go unnoticed to your ladies and gentlemen. In comparison, in four years the government of Pedro Sánchez has increased by 36% -1 out of 3 euros - the resources allocated to autonomous communities. In particular, EUR 129 billion more in these four years than in the last four years of the Rajoy Government in a situation in addition to economic growth. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that in the previous financial crisis the response of the People's Party Government was the following: loans to return with interest, to burden the autonomous communities with a more demanding distribution of deficit targets and to carry out a decentralization of competences by covert means. This is what the previous government did, so you have a comparison to highlight what this government has done, which has been completely different. We have activated conditional, non-reimbursable direct transfers, something never seen in autonomous history; the General Administration of the State has been indebted and has assumed most of the deficit of autonomous communities, and we have practiced an unprecedented co-governance. Is it better? Certainly, but I believe that it marks a clear commitment to the model of autonomous state. Do not misunderstand me, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to divert attention from the problem of the financing model and its necessary reform - on what I am going to talk about a little bit later - but it seems to me important to share these reflections at the beginning by the precedent that is being generated and because, if we do not take into account this remarkable effort being made by the General Administration of the State, we would not be being fair to the reality of the facts and, in some way, would not endorse a set of measures which, without a doubt - the territory that it thinks - have been good for the whole range of autonomy. As I said to you, our priority has been to shield the welfare state, which is much more than attending to essential public services, although, of course, these were the ones that most needed us to approach an economic volume that would allow us not to lose quality and, on the other hand, to meet growing demand. This required sufficient resources outside - I insist - the autonomous financing system. I'm telling you. Firstly, in 2020 we have activated the COVID-19 Fund, with EUR 16 billion. They are unconditional resources, additional to the funding system and in-depth lost; that is, the autonomous communities do not have to return these resources, which also implies an unprecedented measure. Secondly, with regard to the system's own resources, remember that we also made an original decision that was to calculate the deliveries on account as if there was no pandemic, that is, that the economic downward cycle would not affect the financing of the autonomous communities. For this reason alone, ladies and gentlemen, the update of the deliveries to account in one year with a fall in GDP of two digits was 2867 million euros more than those corresponding to them by the mere contribution of the financing system. A total of EUR 115.8 billion was transferred to the Autonomous Communities, which is 7.3% more than it was in 2019. The Autonomous Communities are financed by 7.3% above the previous year, but GDP - the economy - fell by 10.2%. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we have activated the suspension of tax rules, allowing territorial administrations to set an indicative reference rate in relation to the deficit target, thus also offering a greater margin of action. If we had not improved the deliveries to account or approved the COVID-19 Fund, the income of the autonomous communities would have fallen by 4.6%, rather than growing with these two concepts almost 10%. This shows a path that I am putting in your knowledge, because I believe it is an experience and a journey that, if in the future - I hope not - there is a similar situation, even for other causes not derived from a disease, they are already there so that they can be emulated by the corresponding governments. What happened or what will happen in the year 2021? On the one hand, the autonomous communities will also receive an extraordinary fund, in this case, EUR 13,486 million, which the Government of Spain included in the General Budgets of the State as a direct transfer to autonomous communities. On the other hand, the funding system's resources this year amount to EUR 113.7 billion. In addition to these two parameters, in 2021 the Autonomous Communities also received EUR 7 billion for direct aid to SMEs, self-employed people and businesses; resources which they manage directly and which we hope will enable us to overcome this last stage of the crisis by tackling recovery in better conditions. What will happen in the face of 2022? What is the Government's forecast? The autonomous communities will again receive the largest deliveries on behalf of the series - in particular, 112 213 million euros, 6.3% more than the corresponding in 2021- as a direct result of the good economic recovery. But to this funding we have added two very important additional measures involving an extraordinary transfer - to be included in the General State Budgets - of EUR 7 billion. On the one hand, these 7 billion are fed by the approach of the negative liquidation of 2022, so that we have taken steps to ensure that the autonomous communities do not have to reintegrate, according to the model, the deliveries we made to protect the autonomous state and the welfare state, something that, once again, has never been done in the history of Spain. We are talking about EUR 39 billion that is not to be postponed, that is not to be given a loan so that it is paid in comfortable terms as was done with the negative liquidation of 2008 - remember? - but that they are directly the subject of a transfer so that they do not have to spend part of their budgets each of the territorial entities. The second element that will contribute resources to the financing system is the solution to the problem of the VAT information system. I am not going to go back to the origin of this story - I think your ladies and gentlemen know it well - nor to the numerous attempts that this Government has made since it was in Moncloa to solve this problem which you know so well. I would like to tell you that the Government has taken the decision to include in the General Budgets of the State a share for communities, which will receive around €31 billion for this concept which incorporates capital but also interests. Similarly, to those communities that received a zero-rate loan from the State to cushion the lack of resources of the VAT information system - remember?, a loan that was given from the ICO - they will not be forced to return the loan - which would be the fair correspondence - and therefore it will be authorized that these resources be used for the expenditure of the autonomous communities on health, education or what each autonomous parliament considers appropriate. Therefore, not only do we transfer resources, but we do not force those partial measures that this Government has also taken to ensure that these communities in the base year do not lack resources. All this data, as I have just commented, will involve an additional €7 billion, which, as I said when I explained the expenditure ceiling, will be transferred directly to the autonomous communities. The aim is not only to protect essential public services and protect vulnerable people, but also to renew, as I told them then, the social contract with our middle class. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first part of my speech I believe that I have made it clear that the central administration has assumed a very important part of the cost of the pandemic that the autonomous communities had to face, protecting - I would say as never before - the autonomous state. Having said that, I reiterate that this Government's commitment to the new model of autonomous financing is firm, and I say this because I believe that the statement of this appearance can lead to misunderstandings. I have never moved that we postpone or not address the reform of the funding model. Political times must accompany them at every moment, because it is a complex negotiation, but I do not know how they have inferred that someone from the Government has been able to raise this issue in this way. Our proposal is aimed at building a just system for all territories - I repeat, all territories - to receive adequate resources to put an end to the alleged territorial aggravations. In order for this to be possible, we need a broad consensus of autonomous communities within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and bilateral meetings; but, above all, ladies and gentlemen, we need a consensus among all political parties, because this is an organic law that requires the absolute majority of this House. The adoption of the model is not a vote that is backed up between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain, although within that framework we will try to reach the maximum consensus as possible. The vote on the reform of the autonomous financing system requires a political position on the part of political formations and, in particular, of parties at the national level. It is obvious that those parties that represent only part of the territory have a more defined position, but the parties that we have a generalist character - if I may say so - we also need within our political formations to agree on a position that is the same in all the territories. It is not worth each one, depending on where he travels, moving things diametrically opposite to what he says when he travels to another part of Spain. In other words, can the People's Party reconcile the position of Andalusia and Madrid? They are two autonomous communities which are governed by the same political formation and which defend radically different models. What is the vote or position of the People's Party going to be? Perhaps, in this case, Mrs Díaz Ayuso of the Community of Madrid is more aligned with the position of the Catalan parties than she can have, for example, Andalusia or Galicia. And so I could put a whole series of examples also within my own political formation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you have the right to disagree with this Government and to criticize it - in fact, there are some parties that do nothing else, although I have nothing to object to this issue; indeed, I understand that criticism, if it really wants to contribute, enriches, especially if it adds to the common project - but, as I have said on other occasions, we cannot live outside the reality that surrounds us. Reform is urgent, and that is why we have to make progress on the basis of partial consensus on the various variables that allow us all to win. That is why we are currently in an exchange of proposals between the different territories and the State which is very complex and which has to rely in advance on a spirit of predisposition to the agreement. In order for everyone to understand us, I will summarise the situation in which we are today and the different positions that exist as a result of this exchange. On the one hand, Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja, Castile and León, Extremadura, Castile-La Mancha and Aragón defend that in their territories the demographic challenge is faced with greater intensity and that the dispersion of population is taken more into account. They argue, with slight differences, that reform should focus on actual cost and actual spending needs. Especially, they want some phenomena such as aging or depopulation to be given priority. Generally speaking, this group of autonomous communities defends these large variables. These territories want to maintain many elements of the current funding system and, in particular, those aimed at ensuring that communities have sufficient resources to finance the total services of their competence in the present and future. It is clear that the actual cost of services leads in parallel to another debate as to whether or not efficiency is paramount or, in other words, whether we are able to print at the cost of these services a fair approach in those communities that have a higher effective cost not because of the fact of their own population, but because we have not addressed measures that have to do with the best economic efficiency. On the other hand, we have another group of regions - Andalusia, the Region of Murcia and the Valencian Community - that clearly defend a reform that levels the differences of the current system - since, according to the data they have, by adjusted population they would have a greater capacity to have sufficient resources - and that they understand that they are comparatively worse, at the lowest levels of the system, precisely because of this distortion. They understand that the weight of the adjusted population is much smaller than the weight of the model as a whole. These communities repeatedly call for a review of the criteria of the so-called adjusted population and have even called for the implementation of a transitional levelling fund until the system is fully reformed. They are autonomous communities that advocate an urgent and substantial change in the model with population criteria and levelling mechanisms. Finally, we have another group categorized in the great concepts of communities - in this case, the Balearic Islands, Catalonia and Madrid - which, as you see, are of very different political sign and which want to take into account the so-called principle of ordinality in the application of the leveling measures. These autonomys defend the need for levelling measures because they believe that they have to have as a limit respect for pre-levelling management in terms of per capita funding, a debate that - in order for your ladies and gentlemen to ring a bell - has to do with what is wrongly called the limit of solidarity. In short, this is the debate, this is the situation after the different bilateral meetings we have had, and, as you will see, they are proposals in which the political sign of the governments does not mark the positions and in which the interests at stake are varied, all legitimate, but sometimes contradictory. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not something the government is inventing because it does not want to reform the model. This is the reality, and if we do not take it into account, we will never agree on the funding model. One cannot see blind and deaf ears in the face of a situation that requires us all to have a high eye so that, in addition to defending legitimate positions within our territorial framework, we have the capacity to see Spain as a whole, as a whole, and to ensure a minimum of funding for each citizen or, rather, for the provision of services, so that equality is a reality throughout the territory. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, partial consensus must be sought, as I said at the beginning, because with these large differences between models we cannot move forward. And that is why we are working on each of those significant variables that form the model so that in the end we can make an adjustment, if we find those consensuses, so that the global and last content does not cause distortions or unwanted situations somewhere Spain. At these bilateral meetings that we have held during these previous months, including the summer, the objective has been to move forward on the adjusted population criterion, the criterion that has to define a substantial part of the distribution. We will also see the weight that the adjusted population should have in the whole model - as I say to you, that weight is different depending on the interlocutor and the autonomous community - but, ultimately, on what we are working on - and we will make a proposal in November that I hope will gather the greatest possible consensus - is on how to compute ageing, how the child population has to weigh with regard to educational needs, on what kind of elements have to be taken into account for the adjusted population criterion to reflect the reality of the consumption of public services or on what needs of the system are needed to ensure that health services or educational services are provided in the last corner of Spain. Our forecast is that we will be able to present this document in November, as I committed myself to Mr Baldoví, with an analysis of the elements, although I am already telling you that it is certain that they will not be the ones who fully want each of the territories, because there are different positions, as I have just commented to you. Therefore, I insist that we always have to be able to have a broad look to reach agreement and consensus, which always means that one has to give in so that others can win. I also have to tell you that the ability to add the different expectations with that global look is what will best enable us to respond to the need for social cohesion and territorial vertebration in our country. I can understand, ladies and gentlemen - I am sure that we will witness it in this rostrum - that logically every political formation and every territory defend what they believe is best for all the citizens they represent and even that alliances are sought with other territories that can share similar characteristics. That's the simple thing, ladies and gentlemen, let's say that that part was already very round in the previous stage. Each autonomous community knows who are the territories that are closest to the proposed reform of the model they want to carry out. The challenge is to bridge radically different situations to which the model aspires to respond. That is why, once again, I have to appeal to consensus and to the spirit of dialogue, because, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that, if the attitude is positive, we will make very substantial progress in the coming months in those variables which will subsequently have to fit in like a puzzle, and that will materialise the new model of autonomous financing. Therefore, we do not limit ourselves exclusively to the interests of a community. Although I insist that I understand that they are legitimately defended, if we really want to move forward in the model of autonomous financing - something else is that we use this debate to make noise - and I think that can be done if we all have a spirit of dialogue, we will be able to give in to some variables regarding others so that in the end all-I insist, all - the autonomous communities can receive sufficient resources - or approach them - that they can maintain a state of quality well-being. You know that the Ministry of Finance is going to continue to work discreetly, without generating any noise, because I believe that what is most damaging to this debate is the supposed approach to territorial grievances. I can understand that there are unjustified differences between the funding that the model provides right now to better funded communities in relation to less funded communities - it is evidence, a reality that is there - but we cannot pose this model as territorial grievances, disputes between territories or someone's political vocation to try to reproach or deny resources to another Administration. If we really all agree on the urgency of this reform, each and every one of us must contribute our granite sand to provide society as a whole with a new funding system that provides resources that is fair, simple and clearer. This is the goal pursued by the Government and my ministry, and I trust that they will be found in that proposal and in that dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mrs. Montero, you haven't protected everyone's welfare system. You are only in protecting and shielding your own well-being, that is what the Socialist Party is in. Because, look, you are unreliable, you have no credibility, there are so many falsehoods that over these three years you have been speaking in this House on this issue that this morning has been one more. What the People's Party Government did was to save the autonomous communities, which were broken by the financial cuts of the PSOE before leaving through the back door of the Government. Or do they forget that with the latest General Budgets of the Zapatero State they included a sharp drop in the resources of the autonomous communities and provided the greatest social cut in our democracy, because the previous crisis was managed by the PSOE, not us? And in his kindnesses to the public administrations, he has forgotten the ridiculousness that they made with the attempt to stay - ridiculous that you did - with the surplus of the municipalities and your famous there is no longer the money of the outstanding VAT of 2007, which the justice forced them to return. Look, we have moved from what was to be the autonomous legislature - according to Pedro Sánchez in his investiture - to the legislature of the tables of self-determination and convenience with the separatists. The promise of developing a new model of autonomous financing sleeps the dream of the righteous, neither is nor is expected, a lie from Sánchez to fatten the curriculum of deceptions and falsehoods that this Government accumulates. There is no new model of autonomous financing because, quite simply, you did not want it and neither did your Government. You are contenting the independenceists, agreeing with seventeen autonomous communities is something else. They have not had the slightest intention of drawing up a proposal. You, as usual, throw at the PP and all solved! They decided to park the autonomous funding and to pay unique and exclusive attention to their governmental partners, the independenceists. With them they have indeed constituted the bilateral table of self-management with total opacity; that is so, attending with great devotion and even submission to those who are breaking the constitutional order. [[Applauds]] Those of us who are loyal to Spain, such as the Valencians and Valencians of the Valencian Community, have always been, and that is why they mistreat us in the face of other communities that punish, but with those who meet, with those who count. In an interpellation on autonomic financing reform, on June 27, 2018, you said: you have to design a model of vertebration for communities; and you added that the process to have a new model is a long, ambitious and complex process. The rest of her speech dedicated her to criticizing the People's Party, debuting an argumentary that has already been common throughout these three years. In the same vein, on 3 February, you responded to a new question from our parliamentary group about the need for a new model of autonomous financing, and you said the same thing again. All they have missed to meet the needs of the autonomous communities that we really are underfunding is what they have left to meet their independent partners. Madam Minister, in September 2018 the People's Parliamentary Group presented an initiative to which you opposed, presenting, on the contrary, a frontal opposition to which a motion - in this case, debated, but approved - was being discussed in this House, in which a new funding system was proposed that is much more just than we have been suffering since 2009, which is - let us not forget - a funding model approved by the Socialist Party and voted even by President Sánchez as a Member, and found in front of the People's Party, that it was opposed, which you have so far not taken into consideration, not even sitting with the People's Party to talk about the possible financing reform of the autonomous communities. Throughout all this time, since Mr Sánchez's investiture, even Mr Baldoví announced at one point, acting as a spokesman for the government - which he loves, deprives him, can; he thought lots of times: I wish they would count on me and could be in the blue bank, as Oltra is in the council - that in eight months a new model of financing would be presented. A few weeks later, you stated: in autumn you will have the basic skeleton of the financing system. For now, we don't even know the vertebrae, minister! Last April, another initiative was adopted in this House on the proposal of Mr Baldoví, who only wanted to negotiate the compromise amendment with his governing partners in the Valencian Community. Despite acknowledging the interest of some points in the amendment tabled by the People's Party, it did not take us into account and, with this sectarian attitude that characterizes all members of the Government - not only this one but the Council of the Valencian Community - it left us out. But even so, the People's Parliamentary Group did not oppose it. Last week, the first vice president of the government and minister of the economy came on the scene, announcing that funding reform will not be a priority, and this week it was amended by stating that it would be and that we would have it by November. Today you again announce that it would be for November, but yesterday she said that it was not a priority for this Government. That is to say, what is clear to us from our group is that from now on it is not you or Mrs Calviño who we have to address; quite the contrary, it is the Vice-President second, who is clearly the one who is marking this government's policy. You are not interested in fulfilling your commitments, we all know that as long as you are hostages of your independence partners you will not move a finger. This is the reality. Mr Baldoví can continue to make his paper in support of the Government, but in this, as in everything, they do not give him the slightest consideration. When Villargordo del Cabril passes - border between Castile-La Mancha and the Valencian Community - the sudden amnesia transforms him into the adalid of the rights of the citizens of the Valencian Community. So Mr Baldoví's credibility is at the same level as his, because the current financing model leaves the Valencian Community in line, with the complicity of Podemos and Compromís, for and for the wish of the Socialist Government, whose authorship is printed in that document. Your Honor, Minister, a minister who has not even had the decency to set an example and abide by the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme, which obliges them to return EUR 4 billion to the autonomous communities and the municipalities, what can we say about her? Mrs Montero, comply with the judgment - you are obliged to do so - and shows that it is not the independenceists who have their attention but also those who are loyal to Spain. A minister who has no interest in approving the necessary mechanisms to prevent the financial economic misadjustment resulting from the negative balance generated in 2022 and 2023. And a minister, ladies and gentlemen, who has not even told us at this point what impact European funds will have on the autonomous communities. In the Valencian Community we are not aware of the criteria for distribution or how they will be implemented. It's about time, Minister. You have come here, you have spoken of your great commitment, but the reality is another very different one. Mrs Montero, the Valencian Community leads the ranking of the worst financed, due to the death of Zapatero, the incomparence of Sánchez and the lack of political weight of Ximo Puig, a president who has been busier in that his brothers received the subsidies from the Valencian Generalitat, in keeping the Director General of Linguistic Policy - who will, by the way, declare next week to, for falseness, justify ex post facto subsidies granted to the Puig brothers - and, most outrageously, in supporting Oltra at the head of the Vice-President of the Council, despite betraying a victim of sexual abuse and trying to hide the facts that he was the most responsible, since he was the head of his council. Everyone has to assume their responsibility, Ximo Puig said after a meeting with the president of Andalusia. Well, look, that's what should apply and of course take responsibility for what they don't do today. And Puig, instead of assuming it, is launching an autonomous tour, which surprisingly does not stop either in Mrs Montero's ministry - as we know - nor in Ferraz Street, to try to find a point of agreement in the future reform of funding, which of course you will not do because it will be done by the People's Party government. Madam Minister, as much as you insist on accusing the PP of blocking, crisping, disagreeing and not wanting to negotiate, you are not going to convince anyone, and even less the autonomous communities, because it is you who do not want to have a new funding model. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Valencian Community, the under-financing we suffer is a cry. President Mazón has put the reform of autonomous financing on his agenda for the first time, and our commitment is absolutely firm. The People's Party advocates a proposal for autonomous funding based on equality, equity, transparency and solidarity, as promised by President Casado. Mrs Montero, we still don't know what your road map really is, we still don't know anything about that model you've been talking about for three years, about the future reform of autonomous financing. The truth is that we still don't know what you're in because you're not in the European funds - we don't know right now what you're going to dedicate them to or how you're going to distribute them - and you're not in the autonomous funding. She's not here, she's not expecting her. You are part of a lying government, of a government that has devoted itself to none of the Spaniards, of a government that we have been suffering for many years from all the autonomous communities, but especially the Valencian Community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Cañizares Pacheco.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u94	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I am going to take advantage of the fact that there is little in the House to tell you that you have twenty-four appearances in the Committee on Finance to come and talk to us about various matters, such as interim payments, aid to Plus Ultra, the disastrous management of SEPI, contract awards or the strategy that the Government is going to put in place so that our children and grandchildren do not have to pay even more taxes for the consequences of their disastrous management at the head of the public accounts. [[Applauds]] But it is that the Socialist Group's spokesman in the Committee on Finance must be its protector and always sings to us the same song, which you have come a long time ago, that there is a pandemic, that is very busy and therefore votes no, no and not to come to you. [[The lady]] Now, I think he's doing you a weak favor, because with what you like to talk and talk..., although he speaks a lot, but he says little, because from the story that he brought us today the truth is that I have not drawn any concrete conclusions, what he has done has been to hang medals; I don't know if he has, or not. You speak of progressiveism, of progressive forces, which are your favorite words, of dialogue, of negotiation, but concrete solutions, none. It gives long appearances here in public to those who support it, then in private we do not know what it does, and it strikes against the opposition, against the right, as you say, but what right, if right there is only one? [[Applauds]] Do not deceive us or deceive us, Minister, today you have not come to talk about the system of autonomous financing and its reforms, you have come to calm the moods of the nationalists and the disloyals, yes, those who precisely when they speak of solidarity do so in terms of demanding more resources for their courts because it is what they believe are the regions of Spain where they govern and that their feast we pay the others, the mannegoes, the madrileños or the extremeños, among others. And I say calm down because, as the communist minister, who goes for free, says in Alicante that they are going to prioritize the reform of autonomous financing, but the first vice president of her government says two weeks before that what really matters is the General Budgets of the State, although then she goes to Andalusia and gives a long change, to finish the work, you come to Congress to bind it more so that we no longer know if one thing or is the other. Because, what did he tell us, anyway? Agenda, we will negotiate, we will see; that is its way of governing, the mediocracy, solutions and short-term patches, but without a clear or viable project for Spain as a whole. You have to save your little shilling, which you want to keep screwing, and you can only do it by paying tolls, in that you are specialists, betting Spain at negotiating tables and shutting up and looking away when there are tributes to murderers and terrorists. [[Applauds]] Where is, Minister, the required and binding rebalancing plan of our public accounts, which the AIReF and the Banco de España have already requested on several occasions? You're nothing like that. That's right, the ideological and sectarian path, which is that which you have only clear and for what you govern, is to what you are going to, because the price of light, the queues of hunger, structural unemployment, youth unemployment, all of which you don't care about, you follow your real unconstitutional decrees, which also suspend rights and freedoms and try to justify. Mrs Montero, at the door of the 2022 State General Budgets, you have to look well with nationalism in this Congress and independence to support your accounts. Although I am going to tell you one thing, except for labour market reforms and the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, issues that require Europe, the rest of you have already decided them last year in the 2021 State General Budgets. This year they bring a spending ceiling similar to last year, the European funds prorated at 27 billion, as in the previous year, and I think that you would not even mind approving the budgets and extending last year's ones. You know why? Because they will continue to do what they want, because from what they have approved of what they are going to do there is the same distance as from my parliamentary group to your Government, an infinite distance. [[Applauds]] But you have to appear because a Member of the Valencia Nationalist Bloc, who is now from Compromís, has asked to explain why he does not bring another funding system that benefits the Valencians; not all Spaniards, the Valencians, whom I love and respect deeply, but we always go to the same: Saint For Me, that the others do not eat. And it is that a nationalist group that requires a new system of financing autonomy does not propose it to give, but to receive, does it? To have more resources and more independence from his compatriots, than to him, in reality, they are not. Some autonomous governments ask for less money and others say that Spain steals them. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that the funding systems that have been approved over the past few decades have served to achieve better delivery of public services, to facilitate a more competitive economy, with full employment and agile productive fabric? Look, the epidemic has highlighted the uncoordination of seventeen health systems, seventeen different regulations restricting rights and freedoms, seventeen models to close businesses and ruin the Spanish. They've made citizens crazy, for what? So that their states of alarm have been unconstitutional and have not avoided hundreds of thousands of dead, exhausted health care workers - that is, very applauded, but not one more euro to give their lives in many cases - and ruined Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And you call those consequences progress and fiscal justice. What's this about tax justice? Do you always continue to pay the bill while you put friends and pay the office reform for five million euros to the subsidized unions friends of your communist minister? Yes, the union that has to return ten million euros to the era. Let's go to the data now, although you fight even with mathematics in statistics. Spain today has the highest structural unemployment rate in the European Union. In 2017, Spain's average purchasing per capita income was 92.7% compared to the EU average; in 2020, 85.8%. We're gonna get worse. Today, the result of the breakdown of market unity, of the stripping and loosening of them with the public budget and what you call the financing system, results in a strong divergence of income, employment and wealth between the autonomous communities. The Basque Country, with its quota, has 10% unemployment; Ceuta, 24% and Andalusia, 22%. In 2020, the public deficit of the Valencian Community, the largest of all, was 1.15% and La Rioja had a surplus of 1.06%. Mr. Baldoví, you want a new funding system to get more resources, but more resources to spend them on what? With the management being carried out by the Government of the Valencian Community, with its advisers, directorates-general, entities, companies and public foundations, it will spend in the year 2021, according to its budgets, more money in paying interest and debt amortization than in education, and almost the same as in health in the full pandemic. They will devote 6840 million to debt and 5.5 billion to education. And Catalonia is about to start shaking. Catalan independenceists are going to spend 10.5 billion in debt, 6740 million in education and 9700 in health care. This is a picture of the state's autonomy that governments have been building with their funding systems. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to change the funding system so that the Spanish have to pay more taxes, and I will say that to the full. First, the elimination of unnecessary expenditure and political expenditure, the government apparatus must be thinned. And once unnecessary spending is reduced, let us efficiently allocate the resources available before we ask for more efforts and sacrifices from the Spaniards, who are already tired of continuing to drown their businesses and their family economies so that the nationalists and communists can finance their ideological and chiringuito projects, which only contribute to their own well-being. [[Applauds]] A financing system to finance more than 1250 autonomous parliamentarians, costing more than €400 million annually, or what is the same, €320,000 per autonomous MP. Let's see, the autonomous communities reach the normative peak when their regulatory passion becomes an obsession based solely on winning the elections, placing friends and creating a client network. Have you heard that phrase of: do you work or are you placed? Well, that's it. Look, the Spaniards will appreciate you not doing these reforms that the nationalists are asking you to do, because there is little left for VOX to do the real reforms we need. Because more and more Spaniards support us, because they are knowing our message without misrepresentation, despite you, your fallacies and your montages. Reforms to achieve a united, competitive, productive Spain with no difference in opportunities and incomes between its regions, structurally reducing its imbalances on a permanent basis. And only one group thinks so, only one game is like that. And it's not that we're alone, it's just VOX left. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u96	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good afternoon to all and everyone. Finally, I had prepared an intervention to talk about the autonomous financing system and its challenges and complexities, what happens is that, of course, I was preceded in these two previous rounds by two genuine warriors and one is somewhat tied. From Mrs. Cañizares, with that whirlwind of more or less disorderly complaints, with that tone of resabio, at last, it doesn't stop being a style and you have to have a style with which, what can I tell you. But, of course, then I have heard Mrs Montesinos, who comes with a whirlwind, with a similar battery of charge, and this is when the meats are opened to you, because when you hear Mrs Montesinos - I see her, good afternoon - about what the Zapatero government did and what the Sánchez government did you have the feeling, Mrs Montesinos, that you forget what happened between the socks. Look, I'm gonna tell you what happened in between. There was a government of Mr. Rajoy, remember? Well, during this Government, the autonomous financing system was supposed to have been revised. In 2014, remember? Where was Mr. Rajoy? Because you say this government is parking it. What did Mr. Rajoy do then? Did you fall five thousand meters under the water? Really, you have to have the face of cement armed to get out here and say these things with that naturalness. Seriously, I'm telling you this with some admiration because, as I'm telling you, you have to have artist gifts. Going a little further, Minister, if at a time of crisis such as the current one, many of us have this feeling that the tasks are piled up, that we legitimately feel overwhelmed by the scale of the current challenges, I do not want to think about how this feeling should be multiplied from government posts like the one you occupy. The other day he heard a comment on the subway about the last environmental disaster, the volcanic eruption of La Palma, in which one told his companion that this government needed only to manage an extraterrestrial invasion to complete the poker of misfortunes. Finally, this sense of existential distress has an immediate translation into the issues we are dealing with today. Indeed, the autonomous financing system was already six years late in its review when the pandemic broke out and by then, Minister, it had proved incapable of ensuring principles as fundamental as equity or sufficiency. Problems that had been waded on the basis of adding guarantee funds, compensation, compensation and even requisitioning compensation - the so-called adjustment funds -, thus adding a complexity added to a model that was already born quite complex and difficult to understand. On the other hand, the system of deliveries on account was soon proved inefficient and the implementation of a relative financial autonomy has ended up promoting a fiscal competition to the low between autonomy, thanks to the patriotic and solidarity power of people like Mrs Ayuso. In conclusion, fiscal policies launched in the past legislatures have only chronicled the problem of financing public services and the very capacity of autonomous communities to sustain them. The sum of all these elements has sharpened the historical territorial inequalities that our country was already suffering when the autonomous financing system was called upon to reduce them. Then came the pandemic, a pandemic that has only exacerbated and accentuated the imperfections we already knew about the model. It is also true that the reaction of the Government, and above all its clear awareness of the opening of a moment of emergency at the global level, has prevented the autonomous balloon from bursting our welfare state with stupor. Not only were the feared fiscal rules suspended, but, through its successive royal decrees-laws, last year a COVID Fund of 16 billion - which you yourself have highlighted - was the largest transfer of history to the communities; also a Transport Fund of 400, and the Extraordinary Fund allocated in budgets reaches almost 13.5 billion. In relation to the deliveries on account, you are at no time recalculated downwards - as you yourself have explained here today - and has thus generated a negative liquidation, liquidation that, by the way, is now assumed by the State, which is undoubtedly an unprecedented measure. We may like it more or less, it may seem to us that little or much has been done, but, of course, Mrs. Montesinos, to say that nothing has been done... for God's sake, to say that nothing has been done! But where have you been this past year? Have you suffered from a coma or something? For, man, things have been done more or less, but nothing has been done, for God's sake blessed! In addition, and so far, the distribution of more than €7250 million from the React-EU Fund to the Autonomous Communities has been allocated and agreed among the various sectoral conferences. All this results in an estimate of the resources of the autonomous financing system for the year 2022 of 6.3% higher than this year, thus reaching those famous 112 billion euros that you announced. Surely, thanks to all these emergency measures, the autonomous balloon has not burst. But, Madam Minister, you have seen the seams dangerously, and it is therefore clear that we have an urgent need to take up the updating of the system; an update which, in our view, is closely linked to a fiscal reform at state level, as I think we have already talked about on some occasion. That is why we believe that it is impossible to close what is left of the year. Now, that does not mean that you can't already take steps along both paths - as you have also recognized here today -; I mean the fiscal path and the autonomic path. With regard to the first, we can start with it, once the two fiscal figures were introduced last year, the digital and the financial services figures, but we cannot slow down the pace of these reforms. For example, if there is at last, after many years, an agreement at OECD level on the minimum tax rate of 15% on corporate tax, it should be implemented. I do not know what to expect, when it is a measure that many SMEs in this country have been proclaiming for a long time. With regard to the second, you will recall that last April - as has already been said here - we reached an agreement between our two political formations and Compromises, by which Congress urged the Government to submit a proposal for reform of the system before the end of the year, said the resolution. Well, despite the media noise of the last few days in this regard, my group and myself, Madam Minister, continue to endorse this agreement and still intend to enforce its implementation. In that regard, I believe that the words you have spoken here today are in the same direction and we therefore welcome them. However, I do want to stop at some figures, some data and some realities, particularly the Valencian Community, the Valencian Country, of which I myself am a Member, not just a spokesman for the Treasury. In the Valencia Country this is a long-standing issue, this is a topic that is talked about in schools, in bakeries, on all sides; it may seem that this is a very technical issue, but I believe that the inhabitants of the Valencia Country are very clear that their future well-being depends on this debate. Thus, we see figures that strongly draw our attention, the Valencian Community has 141 euros a year less average, in terms of adjusted population, compared to the rest of the autonomous communities of the common system; and 839 euros a year less than the best financed autonomous community, which is the Autonomous Community of Cantabria. Valencia's under-financing is estimated to be EUR 63 billion since the start of the model. If we refer to debt figures, the Valencian public debt in this first quarter of this year already reaches 51 billion euros; that is, 49.4% on GDP; that is, its debt ratio GDP is 21 points, Minister, 21 points higher than the national average. It is therefore true that this country has a major debt problem, but we have some more than others, and here I am afraid that the Valencians are again injured. Therefore, no one should be surprised that Mr Ximo Puig, President of the Generalitat, makes his contacts and, for example, meets the President of Andalusia the other day to discuss these matters, because surely Mr Puig is receiving calls and pressures of this kind every day. Also because there is the Valencian Platform for a Just Financing, which has been working for many years, in which we are integrated almost all parties: the Socialist Party, the United We can, Compromise - of course - also Citizens; even the People's Party, Mrs Montesinos, joined this platform - which I warmly applaud - in June. I ask you again, what happened before? Wasn't there a funding problem? 2014, 2015, 2016, and so on until June of this year. Anyway, it's those things that one has a hard time understanding. The Confederal Parliamentary Group wants to tackle the debate and reform of the autonomous financing system and for this it has a number of principles and elements that we think are relevant to that reform. First of all, there must be a public service shield, Minister, and that forces us to focus on raising not a ceiling of expenditure, as has been traditionally said, but a floor of income. We believe in the need to ensure solidarity and inter-territorial convergence, something that - as I said - the previous model was called upon to fulfil and in what failed stupendously. It is also important to talk about greater fiscal autonomy and debt restructuring. All of them are, in our view, elements that must be affected and taken care of as soon as possible. In conclusion, Madam Minister, I just wanted to reiterate, as I said at the beginning, that I take care of the difficulties of having to reconcile the urgent and the important, but we have no choice. The challenge of this Government will therefore have to be met and will have to be approved, because the alternative to failure simply should not exist. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u97	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. It seemed that we came to talk about the financing of the Valencia Country, but the right never fails: that if the independenceists, that if the blackmail, that if the dialogue table, that if the terrorists, that if there are hundreds of thousands of dead... And the PPs have come to call as a sort of traitor to Spain. In any case, welcome to the olympus of traitors of Spain; we are many, you will see that you will feel very accompanied, minister. In any case, the representation of the interests of the Valencia Country does not end in those Members of this House elected in the constituencies. Left Republican of the Valencia Country counts in this Chamber with thirteen deputies and deputies that we are going to leave the skin to defend the interests of the Valencians and the Valencians. [[Applauds]] That the Valencià Country is one of the State's worst-funded autonomy is something that no one questions. The case is unique, we are talking about a territory with a per capita income below the average, however, it brings the state more taxes than it then receives in spending and investment. This fact is confirmed by the Ministry of Finance itself with the publication of its fiscal balances, which show a fiscal deficit of more than €1400 million. It is intolerable that the Valencia Country should be forced to contribute more than it receives when the funding system does not even cover expenditure on health and education. This system is further twisted when, instead of modifying the financing mechanism so that the taxes paid by Valencians can finance basic services in Valencia, the Spanish Government offers only loans, all of which are intended to force an objective of unreal deficit that does not solve the problem of financing. All this problem was already exposed by the Parliamentary Group Esquerra Republicana during the reform of the Statut d'autonomia of 2006. Good proof of this is the amendments that were tabled so that the financing of the Valencian Generalitat will be fixed in a bilateral commission on the basis of the Generalitat's expenditure requirements, with the creation of a Valencian tax agency that manages the collection of all the taxes borne by the Valencians and the Valencians, some amendments, by the way, which were rejected by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. The Valencians and the Valencians can no longer wait. This situation of continued expoliation has impoverished the Valencia Country and prevented it from having the necessary resources to deal with the economic and social crisis with guarantees. It should be said that, although the reform of the financing system is an explicit commitment of this Government and that the current system has been out of date for years, the Spanish Governments, this one, but also the previous ones, have never considered it a priority to solve this endemic problem affecting Valencians. In fact, both the PP and the PSOE are much more vindictive when they are in opposition than when they accede to the state government. Whenever Valencian demands must be addressed, the dream of the righteous sleeps. Even the comrades of the United Nations Podemos voted against our GNP that called for a credit transfer of 20 billion euros so that, at least, this situation could be alleviated with the funds to which it is estimated amounts the historical debt to the Valencia Country. Let us add to all this that the investments of the General Budgets of the State are always below the Spanish average. If this isn't an expoliation, it looks a lot like it. We, the voice here of the Valencian Republicans, go far beyond the demands of the Platform for a Just Financing. For us there is no other solution than a Valencian economic concert, that the Valencia Country collects and manages all taxes; an economic sovereignty that allows Madrid to stop deciding for Valencians and Valencians and that its policy is unique and exclusive from Valencia. In fact, we are part of the Crida Per Financement, a platform of collectives, parties and unions that see the demands of a fair financing as an unnecessarily decaffeinated claim. We want the Valencians to have the keys to the box, the keys to the box, to be administered as best suited. The Valencia Country faces this crisis, first, health and, then, economic, with a hand tied behind its back, without being able to make use of the resources it generates to carry out the right policies. From here we call on the Valencian Members to stand up at once and put the interests of the Valencia Country ahead of those of their parties. Valencian independence, through our parliamentary group, will be at your side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. A preview. The ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party are more expensive than their backs. [[Rumors]] How dare you come here to take the name of financing in vain? They were from 2011 to 2016 with absolute majority, you too, Mrs Montesinos. And what did they do? Where were you then? In limbo, right? Mrs. Montesinos, I tell you with regret, because you know I respect you. I sincerely believed that I had more height as a person and as a Member of Parliament. Not everything is worth in this Congress. And may Mrs. Cañizares, from VOX, come and talk about courtiers, friends and chiringuitos...! Man, but yes, his own leader, Mr. Abascal, was in a little chiringuito for two years charging without going to work! Have you returned that money yet? Did you return the money you collected from the PP's chiringuito for not going to work? Not at all? Well, then! [[Rumors.-Sir Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: Twelve years ago!]] Unnecessary expenditure on autonomy: MEPs from VOX. Why don't they have what they have to have and they all quit? What are you gonna stay and collect? [[Rumors]] Well, then, what's this coming to say? With VOX's vows we have Mr. Cantó's chiringuito, who has not yet done anything. Don't you dare take Mr. Cantó's chiringuito off? Well, then, what do they say? Pure hypocrisy. Madam Minister, I sincerely acknowledge the efforts of this Government to enable the autonomous communities to meet their commitments in a time of pandemic. [[a Member of Parliament: Pelota!]] [[Another Member of Parliament: What a Jet!]] What are you telling me, throw it away? Me or you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u101	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u102	Me or you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u103	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u104	That is what I expected, Madam Minister - it does not affect me; to throw yours - of a progressive government; of course, for that we vote for them, for that we bet on this government and we do not let those who are now calling me rule do not know what. But it will agree with me that these are partial, punctual measures. You'll agree with me that that's not the way. I mean, we can't be waiting every year for the minister to take some action or other. We need to take measures that will assure the autonomous communities. Minister, why are you here? Obviously, because in this we are persistent - pertinences, as some of the old regime liked to say, pertinences - because there was an investment agreement in which it was already agreed that a new funding model would be presented and that the pandemic - and we understand it - frustrated, but because we made an agreement with the General Budgets of the State, a motion was approved here asking that before the end of the year a new system had to be introduced. But when you have the meeting with the Valencian Platform for Financing you are very clear, and you are grateful. You say that you would not be able to comply, that you had many difficulties because with the climate in this Congress - and with this I agree - and with the attitude that the People's Party has - and with that I agree - it was very difficult. And then, because there have been contradictory statements by some ministers, such as Mrs Calviño, saying that it was not a priority, and Mrs Díaz saying that it must obviously be addressed. The truth is that we've been ruling with our vote for three years now - and we're happy to say it - but we're still the same as when we were ruling the People's Party. I say that I recognize the effort that has been made. We have services that the State entrusts to us, but we do not have the resources, and with this system my autonomous community, which is as Spanish as the one that most, Mrs Cañizares, every year is poorer and every year that happens is still poorer. Every year we are indebted and, yes, we have to pay more money for debt than for education, and not because we mismanage, on the contrary, we manage better than in communities where you govern. For example, in my autonomous community there is an increase in the number of teachers, we bet on teacher education. We do not waste, we do not waste, however, we are increasingly in debt because we have fewer resources than the average. Look, there's an easy example. Let's imagine that there are two autonomous communities; one provides its services, another also; one ends the year having surplus or financial balance and the other has to be indebted to pay its teachers, to pay its doctors, to pay its suppliers. Like a year, another, another and another. What's going on? Something's wrong. We are very shocked that the General Council of the Judiciary has expired for three years and that the funding system has expired for seven years. Yesterday two presidents of autonomous communities of opposite sign, Mr Moreno Bonilla and Mr Ximo Puig - president of my autonomous community - said what Compromís has been saying for ten years in this Parliament and thirty is something that you share and that would also share the president of Murcia - which also governs with the votes of VOX - and that the financing system is discriminatory, complex and not transparent; that the financing system generates resource differences between autonomous communities, more than 30 percentage points among some; that it marks the development of some autonomous communities; that it has financial insufficiency; that it generates deficit, indebtedness - like ours - and that the state has to put more resources. This financial shortfall amounts to 16.4 billion. Minister, I'm sorry, they're not supposed to be comparative aggravations, they're not. Cotton doesn't cheat. If with this system year after year - since the PP ruled - we continue to be poorer than the average 12 points, if we do not advance in convergence with the richest regions and autonomous communities, if we continue to be in debt year after year, if every year we have to depend on the measures of the Government or the FLA in order to be able to pay workers and suppliers, then we are underfunded. White and bottled. Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez have acknowledged this; Mr Montoro and you, Mrs Montero, have acknowledged it to the pointer. So, what can we do? What can be done? Well, look, taking action as has been done with the judiciary, they have been limited to making new appointments. Is there anything you can do? Yeah, sure. In Compromís we have been saying this for a long time and yesterday Mr Puig and Mr Moreno gave us the reason: a transitional levelling fund that compensates for this under-financing until the entry into force of this new system. We understand that it is very difficult and very complicated, but what we cannot do is let things continue for a year longer and let's go and actually go out with all the scattered Mrs Cañizares saying that the Valencians pay more in debt than in education. To me, being part of a progressive government, that would give me a little shame. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u105	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u106	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will be given a preview to tell the spokesman for Esquerra and also the spokesman for the United Nations We can say that the Valencia Country does not exist; no, it does not exist, it only exists in the independenceist mind, and if you do not tell the Supreme Court of Justice of the Valencian Community that this name is contrary to the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. [[Mr. Vice President, Gil Lázaro: All right!]] Minister, I thank you for your presence here and, once again, for talking about autonomous financing. The truth is that I admire her for her ability to talk, talk, talk, talk and talk all the time about the same and avoid important things. Because one thing is to distract attention, minister, and another thing is that you want us to forget things and not remember things. You and Mr Sánchez have deceived the President of the Valencian Community on autonomous financing. I have said deceived, and the poor one is that he has let himself be deceived publicly and notoriously, at least, that I have counted, three times: one when Mr Sánchez promised him the same day of his investiture - also Mr Baldoví - to approach the autonomous financing system within a maximum of eight months. Until today. They will say that Sánchez also promised in the motion of censure to the government of Mariano Rajoy to call elections as soon as possible, and had to be taken to the polls of the ears. Small misadjustments of the truth that this president usually has, but as before it was only Peter, it was not President Sánchez, because we have the excuse there. The second time of that lie or deception. You yourself, Mrs Montero, promised in the debate on the amendments to the entire budget in November 2020 that you would start work on this reform in February of that year. We're on September 22nd of the following year and we're still waiting. But it is that - and this is the third time - you yourself, Mrs Montero, committed yourself to the president of the Valencian Community, with your party partner Ximo Puig, in March of this year, to start the work - and I open quotes - 'in the coming months'. Until today. Notice, minister, that nothing more than failing to fulfill the February promise increased your bet until March. And now, in his speech, he talks about the month of November. Great. My question is - and the question is made by many Valencians and also by many Spaniards - in November, for sure; in November this year or in November next year? Why should we believe her now if she didn't do it before? What has changed now so that we have to believe her? Why should we now believe a government that always proves to have such a complicated relationship with the truth? If both you and Mr Sánchez have not been scrupulous in systematically deceiving your party partner, President of the Valencian Community, and to whom you gave your support in the investiture, Mr Baldoví, of Compromís, what will you not be willing to say to these Members that we are not even your party? Because Mr Puig - well, poor Mr Puig - has found no other way to escape that repeated humiliation than by copying that occurrence of Mr Rufián - whom I do not see here now - who says that the Madridians steal from the Valencians, that there is fiscal dumping, that taxes are being imposed on the Madridns, demonstrating once again that the Socialist Party of the Valencia Country, as you are called there, is closer to Catalan separatism than liberal ideas. You have said that we cannot put forward this reform of autonomous financing with grievances between autonomous communities, which you call for building bridges, consensus, negotiation and giving in. Here you have us, Minister, Citizens. From the very first moment he had us next to him, with a hand stretched out, but responsible, in order to be able to comply with the reforms that this country needs. From the Valencian Community and how Mr Baldoví and Mr de Compromís, who are the only nationalists who cannot get anything out of Sánchez as their partners, I will speak later, although I would like to highlight a premise that has really drawn my attention, Mr Baldoví. In her speech she replied to Mrs Cañizares of VOX, saying that the Valencian Community, that our community is as Spanish as the others, which I am glad about. You know what's going on? That talking about Baldoví and Compromís is funny to me when I talk about my land and when we talk about autonomous financing and when they call it a country. I'm still with the thread of the speech. Autonomic financing is linked to bipartisanism. Talking about Valencian Community is intrinsic to talking about the years of PP and PSOE government, which have kept it as a red lighthouse and the last in the row. And now I want to address Mrs Montesinos, who, in her very heated speech, has forgotten, as she has already been told, that her party ruled Spain between 2011 and 2018 and that in most of those years of government she had an absolute majority. And what did you do? Nothing, nothing for reforming the autonomous financing system. And now you come up here, why not, along with the fences and mupis of Mr. Carlos Mazón, to make yourself known in this sort of half-legislative campaign that you have mounted in the Valencian Community, to say that Mr. Mazón the first thing on his agenda is the reform of autonomous financing. Little credibility - little credibility - will have the People's Party there if everyone remembers that you do nothing when you rule and demand in the opposition what you do not do when you are in government. I also remind you that the People's Party in the Valencian Community has just joined the demands for fair funding in June 2021 - it is never too late if it is good. That said, it's never too late if the bliss is good. I sincerely believe, minister, that the Valencians are good people. We're humble, we're workers, we're fulfilling people, and we don't deserve this deal. In fact, no one deserves it, but it is that, Mrs Montero, in her Asymmetric Spain, by definition, some will be in heaven and others underground. The privileged already know who they are going to be: Sanchez's partners that he needs at a certain time; that is, all the nationalists less Compromised, that we have already seen that he continues to complain, that he continues to lament. Mr. Baldoví, withdraw your support, they don't listen to you. Withdraw your support. [[Applauds]] Citizens have always defended equality from these rinsings of the bipartisanism of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We are an equality project that wants no privileges for anyone, and here I include myself as a deputy for Valencia. I don't want privileges for my community, because we don't want to be more than anyone else, but we don't want to let them miss us either. I myself recalled in September 2019 from this rostrum how Mrs.Montero was criticizing Mariano Rajoy's government that she would not reform autonomous financing when she was Finance Advisor of the Andalusian Board and you said that there were many ways to dismantle the state. Nor have you done anything since 2019, although I already know that your problem is not of dates, Mrs Montero, but of credibility. I told you at the beginning of the speech, forgive me. Ladies and gentlemen, the current system of autonomous financing is unfair, treats the autonomous communities unequally and produces inequalities between the Spanish. It is an obsolete system that should have changed or reformed many years ago, since 2013 it has expired. So, we oppose the patches of bipartisanism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u107	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u108	...and we advocate the liberal reforms that we have already carried out by that committee of experts set up in 2017 and whose conclusions they already know. Get on with it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u109	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which accumulates its turn of reply, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u110	Thank you, President. Often the debate on financing is presented as a selfish demand for rich territories that are insolidary, this is usually done with Catalonia. However, it is not the reality of Catalonia, nor that of the Valencia Country, which today motivates this appearance, in which I will focus my intervention. Even so, it is a reality, of course, that will sound like other territories because centralism harms everything other than the Madrid metropolis, I don't speak of Madrid Villarino del Madrid Corte, Madrid del IBEX, Madrid of the big banks, that of the Bernabéu stage, in short, which impoverishes the rest of the territories. Let's see with concrete data from the Valencia Country that contains this brochure that has prepared the Pel Dret Platform to Decide of the Valencia Country: unemployment is above the state average, also the temporality; there is a higher percentage of households that they find difficult to reach at the end of the month; a higher rate of risk of poverty because the investment in social protection is also below the state average; the average wage is also below the Spanish state average, and consequently the average pension and even the gross domestic product of the Valencia Country is also below the Spanish state average. What part of this reality is the consequence of the state of autonomy? For example, with regard to gross domestic product per capita, there is a much greater fall in the Valencià country than in other territories in the period from 1980 to the present. The same is also true of the banking system with the solutions that successive foreign governments have been offering. The Valencia Country had its own banking system with many boxes, with many rural boxes, and even with a bank, which has been disappearing through this financial centralism that, as I was saying, basically benefits these large banks of IBEX. The problem of underfinancing, which the transfers received by the Valencia Country are below what should be invested in health, education and social services, has led to a great debt, first with private banking, and then with the State through the FLA. But this is a repayable debt, it's a repayable debt. The second council of the Government of the Valencian Community - the first is Health - in budget is destined to pay the debt. Finally, also from a fiscal point of view, the Valencià Country suffers from a deficit, an expoliation like Catalunya and like les Illes that is estimated between 2000 and 6 billion, depends on the method that is used and on who makes the accounts. But what matters to us is that many more taxes are paid, than they then receive in investments. I referred earlier to what part of the problem can be attributed to the autonomous system. Well, some of these realities are even deeper, even earlier. A study done by the Institut Valencià d'Investigacions Economiques funded by BBVA says that from 1900 to the present it has been 19% lower than the average of the territories of the Spanish State than what has received the Valencià Country in investments. This is the historical root of the impoverishment of the Valencia Country, a reality that, as I have begun to say, surely sounds like other territories. Finally, what solution do you have? One, within the same autonomous system, is that autonomy should not be fought for the distribution of a single piece of cake, but that that piece of cake should be greater than the central and centralist state, cutting expenditure from the central state, as can be - we will not tire of saying - military expenditure or even administrative duplication between the central administration and the autonomous administrations. And another, also within the same autonomous system, is debt forgiveness. This debt, to which many territories have been forced to resort in order to be able to pay social investments, is within the autonomous system and is a decision that they could make. And, beyond the autonomous system, another solution goes through sovereignty. The same thing that we defend for Catalonia, we defend for the Valencia Country: self-determination, independence and a shared future as Catalan countries. What independence poses is not alien to today's debate, independence is a way of ending a state that, through its oligarchy, has been impoverishing the rest of the territories and gaining sovereignty must serve us to better distribute work and wealth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u111	Thank you so much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. Let me say my first words, in this case, to convey our solidarity and ask for everyone's solidarity with the most serious events that are taking place on the island of La Palma. I know that, in principle, this could be interpreted as a beautiful spectacle, but the truth is that this is a drama that is going to destroy the life of a huge number of canaries on the island of La Palma. Therefore, we believe that this is the time, beyond the uplifting statements, for the effective collaboration to take place until the complete resolution of this matter - when it returns to the previous normality, although it will not entirely be possible - on the part of all the Administrations, and you have something to do with that. [[Applauds]] When Mr Baldoví spoke to me about the desirability of raising this issue, it seemed to us - although the Canary Islands does not have this matter raised at this time in a strong way - that a debate on a transcendental issue should be opened entirely legitimately. If one can label this debate in any way, it is a brown one of unusual dimensions, because when it comes to establishing a system of autonomous financing we encounter what is actually the Spanish State: an absolutely plural and diverse State and its communities are. Consequently, finding a single system is extraordinarily difficult. The Canary Islands know a lot about this because in the previous system of autonomous financing the extraordinary resources of the Fiscal Economic Regime of the Canary Islands - I will not tire of talking to you about the REF because it is our home - which are extraordinary resources to try to equate and put on equal terms the Canary Islands with the average of the state community - we want to be special, but to be equal to the average - were introduced into the ordinary system of autonomous financing. The damage that caused the Canary Islands was a terrifying damage that was resolved in the 2017 budgets. A budget law had to be used to separate the extraordinary resources of the REF from those of the regular autonomous funding system. You will say: this man speaks of his book, but each one has his own. Of course we do, we have no doubt. We do respect a set of principles, which I believe were properly established in 2017 at the Conference of Autonomous Presidents on the sustainability of the welfare state and the reform of the autonomous financing system. It is true - I don't have any more time - that there were established a series of principles that everyone can read as he sees fit. [[The lady]] However, in the autonomous financing system the principle of solidarity between communities - because the autonomous financing system is nothing more than receiving the necessary resources to meet those services that are transferred to the communities - is nothing more than that. Therefore, the principle of solidarity within all the communities of the State seems to be an obvious principle, and solidarity means putting oneself in the place of the other, that is, to care unequally for those who are unequal. Financial sufficiency is also related to equity in access to services, and in that case we will have to discuss which protected population is considered equivalent, for example. Is only the number of people considered, or should poverty rates or social exclusion be considered? I mean, what's to be done? This is questionable, but it is a completely reasonable principle. There is also the principle of transparency, that is, either the accounts are clear or in the end no one will be satisfied, and we the first. Another principle is fiscal co-responsibility, which is obvious. All communities must make the corresponding effort to ensure the provision of their own services, or to ensure access to public services for all citizens of one territory on equal terms with those of the other territories. These seemingly clear, meridian and indisputable issues, which are principles that we defend, when it comes to landing, are a problem. For example, when we talk about the management of social services, what do we calculate? Do we only consider the population over 65? That is a criterion which, of course, no longer serves. This is a clear example of what we are going to find ourselves with. The debate is, however, there. It seems to me that the Minister's commitment to addressing this fundamental issue for all at the time has been clear. We also say that this is not the best time for consensus, we just need to hear the tone of the debates in this Chamber, and we also recognize that transitional measures have been taken to help the weakest in times of crisis. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, we have already spoken from the Regionalist Party of Cantabria many times in this matter. We have always argued that basic public services must be sufficiently funded in all autonomous communities and be equal for all citizens to live where they live. That is why the key element must be the effective cost of services, primarily in health, education and dependency. In a first period, when the transfers were made, they were theoretically endowed with the actual cost. I say in theory because, for example, in the case of Cantabria, once health was transferred, it was immediately seen that there had been a miscalculation and insufficient. This needs to be done today, with the unstoppable increase in the last few years of health care, and I am not saying for the pandemic that has also aggravated it, a specific touch, Minister, because most of public spending is being carried out in the autonomous communities. Ending up measuring always by the ratio of the number of inhabitants leads to an injustice, and I think we should try to avoid it for the next discussions. Apart from this, it should be remembered that the current model already covers the population sufficiently. 97% of the Guarantee Fund is the population: 30% of the equivalent protected population, 38% of the net population, 20.5% under 16 years of age and over 65 years of age, 8.5%. There is therefore a basic concept that needs to be introduced: the fixed cost of services. The fixed cost for a community of 600,000 or one million inhabitants is not the same as for a community of 7 or 9 million. The territory must also be measured, unless it is intended to continue to empty rural Spain and continue to fatten the major conurbations such as Madrid and Barcelona. Another key element is the dispersion which, in particular, affects the north of Spain. For example, in Cantabria we spend more on public school transport than the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which has ten times the population. And the ratio of students per teacher is 50% higher because of this dispersion. Orography also influences, logically, which affects not only health, education and social services, but also transport infrastructure, i.e. roads or communications, which are the basic services we have today. In addition, there are sufficient tools and data to do so accurately. Finally, the last great concept that I think needs to be preserved is the status quo, as we are all acknowledging that most of the autonomous communities are underfunded and have serious funding gaps. I am glad that you recognized these concepts in your appearance and I hope that they will be reflected in the proposal that you bring us in November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u115	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance, let me begin by recalling paragraph 9 of the government agreement that PSOE and United We can sign at the end of 2019, which is entitled 'Cohesion and efficiency: update of the autonomous state', because this update seems to have been converted into The tale of the good pipe. [[shows a document]] You then committed yourselves, with great deployment and rumor, to approving a new system of financing the autonomous communities that resolves the shortcomings, asymmetries and ambiguities of the current system. Today we are facing another monumental fiasco of the accredited Pedro Sánchez factory and of a minister - you - who has been in the blue bank for forty months. Ladies and gentlemen, for Asturias, one of the autonomous communities most affected and penalized by the existence of an unequal, unfair and unfair system promoted by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, should have been reformed seven years ago. We are faced with the umpteenth delay in embarking on a reform which also outstrips the Government of the Principality, whose President assured us that he was going to defend the common position reached by a large majority of the Asturian House on autonomous financing. He said that he would defend it by land, sea and air, and now we are in front of the announcement of the creation of a working forum, when in the face of the disproportion of calamitous consequences of parking the reform of the system, what would be appropriate would be to stand in defense of the interests of millions of Spaniards affected by a unilateral decision of the Government of Sánchez that will cause damage and that, if one year is achieved, you have already anticipated us in your appearance that will cause dissatisfaction. I translate this from dissatisfied: Spanish first and second. Your Government, Mrs Montero, does not take constitutional solidarity and equality seriously, and makes financial palliatives long for some of the major problems that have become acute in the last decade, such as depopulation, ageing or the cost of public services. In return, Minister, your Government and your party are launching the idea of multilevel Spain, which is a suicidal path to nation unity and equality of citizens. In a legislature characterized by the perverse effects for Spain, this decision of the Government will have irreparable and irreversible effects. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, autonomous financing is the oxygen to ensure social and territorial cohesion in our autonomous state, it is the food that keeps the provision of basic services as fundamental as health, education or social policies, so ensuring it in terms of sufficiency is always a priority and unreplaceable issue for socialists, and it has been so for this government all this time, as the Minister of Finance has shown with data. Now, Mrs Montesinos, first of all, I have to welcome you to the debate on funding, but I think you've taken a little off the hook because you've had more over-action than rigour in the information you provided. It gives you the feeling that you are more interested in noise than autonomous financing and, I say, if you were so concerned, why, when you had absolute majority in 2014, did you not review an autonomous financing model? Because they had no interest in doing so. In short, the real and important thing for the Valencians and for the Valencians is autonomous financing, they are economic resources. The government chaired by Pedro Sánchez, through the facts and despite an already expired funding model, but which is essential to review, is fulfilling. It is meeting the funding, ladies and gentlemen, because it is demonstrating that funding is a priority. Unlike what happened in the previous crisis with Rajoy, the autonomous state is now being protected as never before, resulting in the loss of autonomous accounts in the future, assuming the central administration the highest cost of the pandemic. As I said, the minister has given data. The State is transferring to the autonomous communities the largest amount of resources in history to ensure essential services. In 2020, in addition to the resources from the financing model - with record figures of the deliveries on account - it has transferred 16 billion euros and in 2021 more than 13 billion euros. They are non-reimbursable funds that have been lost. In addition, an unprecedented solution has been given to compensate for the negative liquidation of 2020 from the current financing model in 2022. Because, ladies and gentlemen, guaranteeing vaccines, covering health spending, investing in education and meeting the social needs of citizens have been and are a priority for this Government. [[Applauds]] Transfers and funds are an undeniable reality to respond, first, to the crisis, but also to drive economic recovery with the goal of no one being left behind. So this government is fulfilling its obligations to provide solutions to the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the funding model is an important instrument, but the objective we are pursuing is even more important: to ensure fair funding. To date, and despite the pandemic, despite not having revised the funding model, the Spanish Government is guaranteeing it and you refuse to see a reality that is indisputable. [[The Lord]] The will of this Government to meet Valencian funding is guaranteed, unlike with other Governments. In four years of government of Pedro Sánchez the Valencian Community will receive 35.9% more resources than in the last four years of Rajoy. In 2020, the Valencian Community received more than €24 billion in extraordinary funding to combat the deep-lost pandemic. In 2021 it will receive more than 2047 million, to which it is necessary to add 922 million allocated at sectoral conferences and 1254 million from the React-EU to promote the recovery. Moreover, the Valencian Community will not have to bear a negative liquidation of the financing system for the year 2020, which is settled in 2022, and for the first time the per capita social expenditure is above the average. It is that this is the important thing, that we are guaranteeing the financing of the Valencian Community, we are guaranteeing the financing of all of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is to provide solutions, and this government is a guarantee of solutions. It is very good that we visualize the problems - the problems we know them - but with the speeches I have heard here today we will hardly be useful in seeking solutions. What we have to do, precisely, is to look for another tone, as the minister is doing and it seems that no one has heard it, because in her first intervention really what she was exposing was the problem and how she was encouraging us to solve it. Remember that, in 2012, with the Rajoy government, the state financed the communities by not being able to go to markets, but in exchange for generating a structural debt with the state that already reaches more than 80% of the autonomous debt, as is the case with the Valencian. So, while Minister Montoro exclusively owed the communities structurally with loans, Mrs Montero today shows that she is giving oxygen with transfers. Undoubtedly, there are two totally opposite models, two different responses to the crisis and to the problems. Mrs. Montesinos, I don't know which country you live in. I have not seen any rigour in your data at the moment in the debate. But if the highest percentage of debt increase, precisely, occurred in 2012. We have been dragging that situation since 2012 and, in addition, in 2014 you had the absolute majority, you could have perfectly revised it when the problems were detected, and you did not. So we are convinced that the Government is complying, and it is complying because the Government of Spain, chaired by Pedro Sánchez, is giving answers to citizens as never before had another Government done and is also committed to seeking consensus to review a funding model. We are also doing so by all the Socialists, the Socialist Members of Valencia, but also by the rest of the Members of this House who belong to other communities, because what we are trying to do is to seek consensus, precisely to revise a funding model that should have been revised already. It was not revised at five years and, of course, after twelve years since its adoption, the needs of adapting the model to the new reality are justified on their own. So the socialists - there is no doubt - we are committed and aspire to a strengthened autonomous state, in which all Spanish citizens receive public services in terms of living equality where they live; a system that definitively resolves the deficiencies, the structural problems inherited at the origin, but exacerbated in time, of overall sufficiency of the system, of equity and efficiency. In short, we need a system that provides security, provides financial stability to the autonomous state and cannot be used as a bold weapon against autonomy. We have to strengthen it, not weaken it, and some, with their speech, are trying to weaken it. We want to strengthen it, we provide solutions, we comply with citizenship. And to this task we are connected all Members and all Members, those who believe in a decentralized State, where decisions are under co-governance and close to the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, this revision must be made - there is no other solution - with dialogue, with maximum consensus, without harming anyone, ensuring more entry for all and with a better distribution, which is also perceived as fairer. To this end, there is only a political agreement that takes the form of a simple mathematical expression, but which implies the obligation to reconcile different territorial and ideological interests in order to clarify the regulatory framework for competition, as well as to increase the capacity to generate income with which the welfare State as a whole can effectively and efficiently sustain. And within the ideological framework the model of expenditure and income policy plays a fundamental role, without a doubt, but also the response given to these kinds of policies, social-democratic responses that have been shown to be correct in the face of other formulas that they used in the previous crisis. So, in conclusion, I would like to encourage everyone from the House to try in the second intervention to move from criticism to solutions, to contributions, to answers, because the revision of the funding model is very complex and we do not have to give up the debate. We certainly do not give up that debate, unlike what the People's Party did in 2014, and that is why we will move forward. The minister said that there will be a concrete proposal in November, a partial reform. Everyone must be told that the year has not ended, that the legislature has not ended and that, therefore, no violations, we continue to comply with the citizenry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u119	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speeches of the various groups in the House. I believe that after - I hope - having listened to each other - I hope because some interventions were quite predictable - the question is: Is it possible that this Congress will be able to raise the political tone, look and think, rather than the wear and tear on the government and the disqualification that each one considers that at every moment he has to employ, in real recognition of the advantages or achievements that are made on different issues? Is this Congress capable of raising its eyes and really putting citizens at the centre of the debate? Because this is what it is about, it is about us thinking about people and that, from there, everyone defines a legitimate political position, broader than the strict scope of their representativeness, and is able, above all the generalist political forces, lords of the People's Party, to make an approach that considers the diversity, the reality, the complexity, the plurality that means the construction of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we address the debate on autonomous financing, I will, in particular, try to make it happen in a tone that allows the debate, that allows the agreement, that allows meeting points to be found and that did not exacerbate what we already know, that there are apparently insurmountable differences - and I say to you that they are salvable - between the different models that are good for them, that feel good for each territory or for each autonomous community. The movement is shown to be moving, we always have to bear in mind that we have to walk, we have to work to present the fruits later, and we are working and I know that some political formations are also doing so; likewise, I know that there are others who, as always, use this debate as important, as everyone else, to try, as I said, the policy of wear or lack of recognition of original sin, of the non-legitimacy of a left-wing government that is elected by the ballot box. That is why I have focused on trying to explain the reality, that your ladies and gentlemen - I know - know the complexity of this debate, but also that the media, the citizens who listen to us - if there is anyone still waiting for this debate - have the ability to understand what I meant when I talked about it that it is essential to deal with this reform the attitude and the aptitude - with this and, above all, with this - that the political groups who really want to take this debate seriously and get it out of the gutter, the confrontation, the delegitimation. There are many subjects for the opposition to continue to pursue this policy, but in this I would ask the groups of the House - and the expression of many of the speakers shows that this is the case - a constructive attitude, and banishes - other interventions by other speakers have also made it clear - that this debate is burned ground, as always, and something that does not allow us to move forward. I think we need maturity to address this debate and I believe that all the political formations that we are here have it. Let us therefore overcome these preliminary differences and be able to move forward. I am grateful for your interventions to the spokespersons of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Compromís, Partido Regionalista de Cantabria, PReCAT and Nueva Canarias in the sense and in the terms that each really defends the legitimate position of what he believes he represents by the elections, by the votes that the citizens made for that seat to be obtained. I think that is absolutely normal and, if we want to contribute to the general level, we have to be able to show a broad view in order to outline proposals, defending what everyone considers, in what they are able to give in, capable of recognizing the singularities of others, so that, in turn, the others recognize ours. This is a sort of round-the-clock debate that has to allow us to give in so that they can give in, be able to recognize so that they can, in the end, be able to move forward, which is what we are talking about and what we are proposing. With regard to some of the speakers' speeches, for example, that of Mr Quevedo - I think he is not now - it is common for this to be heard in the debates on autonomous financing, as if it were the only instrument the administrations have to achieve the legitimate interest of each territory in exercising their powers in full, convergence, territorial equality. Let us bear in mind that the model of autonomous financing is the main and basic instrument for the financing of essential public services transferred to the autonomous communities, and not only that, but also for the exercise of other competences. Sometimes when we talk about whether the leveling has to be totally opartial, whether we have to contribute 70 or 80% of the collection to the Public Services Guarantee Fund, we are talking about this, we are talking about what everyone thinks the model has to contribute. Those who advocate the return to the Public Service Guarantee Fund of increased collection participation argue that the model basically has to finance these services. Those who consider that no, that there has to be greater levelling and therefore less provision of these services consider that the model must also address a number of other issues that are equally high priority for them. That's why I say it's not a ballad when we define one or another consideration about what we're talking about and what everyone's defending. In intellectual honesty, it must be said that the financing model wants to finance the competences of the autonomous communities but that the State has to have other complementary instruments that allow us cohesion, that allow us territorial convergence - even if this word some territories do not consider it or do not understand it - the territorial cohesion of the whole country and equality in what the Constitution, at least, establishes as basic: health, education, social services, training or equality in this field, that allows any Spaniard, living where he lives, to have the same opportunities to develop his vital project. To the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, to Mrs Cañizares, I would like to say that, as someone has said, it seems to me a waste of time to talk about chiringuito. Some member of this Congress has already responded, and that is what I mean. You cannot talk to that splinter, Mrs Cañizares, when Mr Abascal has been in what you call an ideological chiringuite, and, as you have rightly said, of course, it is not a letter of introduction for your political group to have legitimacy on this issue, although it is a rather favorite topic among which you always pull out. I will not go into disqualifications, I will just say why you defend what you defend, and it is for two reasons, Mrs Cañizares. You do not believe in territorial vertebration from the state of autonomy, you do not believe in the autonomous state. Therefore, your opinion on how to finance the autonomous communities, to say the least, is rather unclear, because for you the decentralized model of the state is a model of failure. For most of the political formations of this Congress, the decentralized model is a success story. Therefore, Your Honor, you will hardly be able to agree, from that maximalist position, with anyone who advocates fair autonomous financing. Do you not defend or do you not understand the concept of justice? This is first-rate politics, Your Honor. Fiscal justice, territorial justice, social justice is therefore essential for collective construction. And for another reason, Your Honor, not only because you do not believe in autonomy: you do not believe in the welfare state because you do not believe in the public, you do not believe in the state. You do not believe in autonomy, you do not believe in the state, therefore, why are we going to finance the autonomous communities, which are the ones that provide health, education or dependence, if for you it is much better a model of private provision, with tax breaks, in which each one brings his bill - save what he can, and, if I have seen you, I do not remember-Therefore, the only truth I can share of his intervention is that the distance between VOX and this progressive government is an infinite distance; correct, Mrs Cañizares, an infinite distance. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you have a serious problem with the autonomous system. Since they were born, I have always had the opportunity to read your documents on the vertebration of Spain and the autonomous system for the responsibilities I have held, which you always disqualify - I did not disqualify you - and in all your documents I have seen that you advocate a decentralization of competences transferred to autonomous communities. Of course, if a political formation like Citizens governs in some autonomous communities giving the majority to the People's Party although it has not been the most voted list in the elections by a pure ideological component - it is the case of Andalusia and other autonomous communities, as happened in Madrid before the call of Mrs Ayuso -, it considers that there is an excessive competitive decentralization, and therefore I understand that it does not have much interest in discussing how to bring a greater volume of resources closer to the autonomous communities. This is something that happens to you where, as on other topics, you drift in terms of positioning. So, I would say who we believe, if Mr Marín, when he speaks from Andalusia and defends criteria that come well to that autonomous community, or to his spokesman in Castile and León, because they say extraordinarily incompatible things. To whom does the Citizen Parliamentary Group defend? Who's he taking sides with? What is your position on two perspectives that are radically different and are part of the same political formation? Giving 36% more resources in four years seems to you to have done nothing? You supported the People's Party in many of those budgets. Some had an absolute majority, but others were supported by you. I have never heard Citizens ask for an unconditional transfer to the Autonomous Communities. [[Applauds]] Now we point to this because it probably looks like you guys are playing. Mrs Montesinos, if anyone had not understood me when I started my speech, if any means of communication, any citizen or any of your lords had not understood what I meant when I started my speech, it has been listening to Mrs Montesinos and we have all had it very clear. The attitude that I denounced, with which we cannot engage this debate, which is not serious, which does not contribute anything, which does not allow progress, which blocks possible solutions has expressed it, has transmitted it with absolute brilliance by Mrs Montesinos, and that is what cannot be. If that is the attitude of the People's Party, it is saying no to the reform of autonomous financing, because one cannot have an intervention in which lies become a weapon of confrontation with the Government, in which you show that you do not listen, when one of your lords, namely Mr Baldoví, recognizes the obvious, and it is that this Government, unlike his, during this time of pandemic has accomplished what has never been done in the history of Spain, and his colleague calls Mr Baldoví ball, as if we were in school. How serious is this debate? How can we deal with this childish attitude, so uncommitted to the citizens of the territories that we each legitimately defend? You did not change the autonomous reform, ladies and gentlemen, because you did not want to, you have been told from this rostrum. They didn't do anything in 2012 or 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 or during the time they were in government in 2018. You had an absolute majority, you could have changed the model. You did nothing, you dedicated yourselves and simply to blaming Mr. Zapatero for all the evils of the world. Of course, this is still in 2013, but do you still listen to Mrs Montesinos talk about Mr Zapatero's political reality? Ladies and gentlemen, you have to go through stages that have taken you to where you are now. They overcome those stages, because they said they did not address the financing model because they had an economic crisis, and in 2014 GDP rose by 1.4%, in 2015 by 3.8%, in 2016 by 3%, in 2017 by 2.9%, and you come to claim when this country is in an absolute pandemic, with two-digit fall in GDP. Anyone who has heard it, Mrs Montesinos, has fully understood what I meant when I spoke and asked for seriousness in a debate that seems to me to be extremely important to the country, which seems to this Government to be extremely important for the equality of citizens, because here it does not matter so much, ladies and gentlemen of all political formations, who provides services, but how we want those services to be what we want to provide. If health is wrong, if education is wrong, if dependence is wrong, this Government will be wrong, beyond who is responsible for health, education or dependence in the autonomous communities where we do not govern. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to be pretty serious. Mrs Montesinos, in that sluggish speech that you have made in my view, you were messing with the progressive government and talking about cuts. Mrs. Montesinos, the problem is not just that you practiced cuts, the problem is that you brag about the cuts. Do you want me to remind you of Mrs Mato's press conference, when she boasted that the measures she was putting on the table - the hemerotec - meant a cut of EUR 10 billion to the health system? Look in the hemerotheque, ladies and gentlemen. You boast, because you showed that the only answer to the financial crisis we had at the time was a policy of cuts. And you are not only disdainful now of what you were then saying - I don't know if you are ashamed of what you did - because, of course, what you are proposing are more cuts. Or when you say that in the face of the suspension of tax rules... Why not present the rebalancing plan tomorrow, by the way, which the autonomous communities have to do? Aren't you asking for cuts in advance, before you know how the economic cycle is going to go? Of course you fought the previous crisis with cuts, and that's there, it's in numbers, it's in figures. When you deny reality, you just sit outside of it. What do you propose? Mrs Montesinos, I have not heard you here say what you propose. Do you propose the fiscal harmonization of Mr Núñez Feijóo or do you propose what Mrs Díaz Ayuso proposes? Do you propose that there be a greater impact of adjusted population, as proposed by Mr Moreno Bonilla, or that this factor, this variable is considered to a lesser extent, as proposed by Mrs Diaz Ayuso? What do you propose, that dispersion be a determining factor, as Galicia says, or are you proposing that concentration be a determining factor, as Madrid says? What do you propose? Or do you just fuel this debate to confront territories? [[Applauds]] That's why I'm telling you it's necessary to clarify. I have told you with great honesty from this rostrum, because for me this debate is serious, very serious. And I have told you very clearly, Mrs Montesinos, the national parties which are of a general nature have within their political formation the same contradiction that the model has, since they have to harmonize radically different positions, and you obviously do not say so. What are they going to vote on when the model reform comes? Is it possible to agree with you on the model? I want to make a deal with you, I've always said, I want to make a deal with the People's Party. I believe that the two main parties in this House should agree on the future funding model, I think it would be good for the stability of the country and the autonomous communities. I want, Mrs Montesinos, to agree with you on the model, but, with the attitude expressed by the People's Party, it is frankly difficult. And as the reform of the model is urgent, they will have to make a decision. Where will they want to be, making noise or contributing, really defending the unity of Spain or simply trying to wear down the government? That's where I leave the question, I hope you answer it. Mr Baldoví, I believe that your speech shows, first of all, what we have been commenting on for so many months, that it was necessary to arbitrate partial systems that would enable the autonomous communities to secure resources at a time of great tension, and that has been done, among other reasons, because the budgets, which allow such a transfer to have a vehicle, have been agreed with you. If there were no budgets, neither the 16 billion COVID nor the 13.4 billion that were launched in the second year would have been possible, nor would the 7 billion that are incorporated into the draft budgets be possible, and I therefore thank you for that support, which has made it possible to crystallise this issue. I don't know what information would come to you from the meeting with the Platform for Just Financing in the Valencian Community - see if I care about this topic that I met with this platform - but under no circumstances do I recognize myself transferring something I don't believe in. You will never have heard me say that reform is impossible, because I consider it feasible and possible. Besides, hardly in the face of a challenge I say it's impossible, I always think we have a chance to walk. Therefore, it is also very important for me that we continue in that direction. I share with you, and I have always said this openly, that there is no possible justification for explaining the difference of EUR 800 per capita between the worst-funded and the best-financed community. From my point of view, there is no variable to explain it, and therefore it is necessary to correct that intrinsic deficiency that the model brings. I also share with you that this insufficient financing has generated at least, if not all, a very important part of the debt of the Valencian Community. I also tell you that when we approach the autonomous financing model, we will have to address the accumulated debt and see what happens to the debt. You will hear that there will be territories that say that debts are inefficient, that debts are because one does not know how to manage properly. Let us see the noise and focus on the important, and it is obvious that in the Valencian Community under-financing has become debt and that in Murcia under-financing has become debt. Everything? Probably not, but, no doubt, a large part of that debt is attributable to underfinancing. You propose that, while the reform of the model is being carried out, a transitional leveling fund be proposed, or - no matter what we call it - in short, that resources be allocated to the autonomous communities that are at the bottom of the per capita under-financing, which is the result of all the variables of the model. Mr Baldoví - I think I have commented on this on some occasion - at the last Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, on the distribution of the 13.4 billion, I echoed that proposal and raised the possibility that some of that figure would be obtained only for communities that were financed, in the terms decided, below the average. I put the vote to the vote, Mr Baldoví. And you know who objected? Mr Lasquetty of the Community of Madrid. This, and therefore the People's Party, did not share that there was a specific fund for communities that were worse funded. I still think, Mr Baldoví, that, if we can make progress on such proposals, we must do so. I still think so, but of course, with the House's consensus, because, as I always say, I can reach many agreements or understandings within the framework of relations with autonomous communities, but those who vote and ultimately have to define their position are their lords. Some have it easier because they represent only part of the territory, but others have to make decisions and bet on what they understand better or more convenient. To Mr Quevedo, in relation to the victims affected by the volcano - he said that he hoped that the commitment of the administrations would be unequivocal - again I would like to say from the rostrum that the commitment of the Government of Spain is unequivocal with the Canary Islands to bring the resources necessary for the protection of the citizens, as we are doing, also so that those families who have lost everything can resume their lives. Of course, they have to and will have to rely on the Government of Spain, but I also hope that it will be with the solidarity of all the autonomous communities. I shall now finish this part of my speech. I have tried to transfer the reality of this debate, but, above all, to urge the political groups to abandon in this matter, in particular - continue in the others doing what they want - the aggravation, the confrontation, the wear, the disqualification and the more you. If we really want to move forward, let's do it from partial consensus. I can assure you that I have been working on autonomous financing for many years from different positions and, although some disqualify it, it seems to me an added value in addressing this debate. After so many years of discussing this debate, I am convinced that only through partial consensus on the variables that make up the model can we build the puzzle as a whole. It is my hope, in the assurance that this government, despite the noise, knows that there are many ladies and gentlemen, many political groups who really want to address the reform of the model. Here, as we always say, no one is excluded, and there are some that are necessary for this model to be pushed forward. We are talking about an organic law and a qualified majority in this Congress of Deputies. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I only insist and ask you to have common sense, rationality and height of view on this subject, please. Let us abandon the political confrontation and, as I said, put the citizens at the centre of this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, don't lie. The only one blocking the reform of autonomous financing is you. So far, he hasn't taken a single step. Not a single step. [[Applauds]] Look, your speech is absolutely empty. What you did today was put in front of the mirror, the minister in front of the tax advisor, who was in Andalusia, because that speech to which you referred and who accused us of the People's Group was your constant speech from Andalusia when you were a tax advisor. [[Applauds]] Yes, Minister, you do double play, as you please. You say you want to agree, but for three years you have been doing absolutely nothing, without any approach, without sitting with any member of the People's Parliamentary Group to talk about it. So, what interest do you have? We are willing to talk about everything, but what we are not prepared to do is to the subordination to which you always intend to subject us; you treat us very differently from the way you treat the independenceists and their government partners. [[applause]] The People's Parliamentary Group is not in that, in wasting time, because I have one thing very clearly: you speak of consensus now, in these minutes of your speech, but when you leave the door of the House you will have forgotten, you will already be at something else and apply the roller and the monologue, which is what you like most. Madam Minister, you and so many other speakers in the parliamentary groups have said that the Rajoy government did absolutely nothing during the years it ruled. What a shame! Above all, you, who was a tax advisor and who knows very well how much that government had worked to rescue the autonomous communities after the fiasco that you had left with the negatist Zapatero at the head, the same one that you are going to leave, unfortunately, the People's Party When it governs because of all that rumor of advisors and great ministers that we have in this council that all you have dedicated to is spending and squandering the funds. From the Government what was done was to provide liquidity to the territorial administrations with autonomous liquidity funds, the FLA, payment to suppliers, etc. A framework for the sustainability of autonomous communities and an increase in regular funding of 24% between 2012 and 2018 was established and guaranteed. And don't talk about the peak of the autonomous communities, because that is the result of the biggest cut-off, the worst management of a crisis that Spain suffered and that was promoted by the Socialist Party, regardless of whether there was another one at the national level. You didn't face that crisis. You tried to obviate and denied it at every opportunity. [[The lady]] In addition, in the Second Legislature, starting in 2017, the Conference of Presidents was held and in the Financial and Fiscal Council - you know it because it was a part of it - the committee of experts was formed, which delivered a document with the reform of autonomous financing, a document that you amended and which you yourself recognized in 2018 when you intervened in your last speech in the Andalusian Parliament. Right there you said that you were going to present not only the allegations that had been approved in Parliament, but also those that had been made since your advice. Well, from that moment on, you had it very easy. At the same time that you assume the ministry, what should you have done? He should have taken that document, with his own allegations, sat down the autonomous communities and started talking. However, what did he do? What you did, displicitously, was deny that there were steps that yielded in favor of the autonomous financing of the reform, and you forgot about everyone, which is what you're doing. And not only that: in February 2020 you committed yourself with the Autonomous Communities to submit a report in October of the same year. We're still waiting for him. The reality is one, and you do not intend to comply with either Parliament's agreement or the investiture agreement. The Platform for a Fair Financing of the Valencian Community has already told it. The usual thing about Sánchez's disgovernment is to commit to completely failing everything, minister; that's what you have us used to, and unfortunately it's going to remain that way. But don't worry, because as soon as elections are called we have very clear in the People's Party, with Pablo Casado at the head, that one of our commitments will be that of fair and equitable funding, on equal terms, in transparency and solidarity. That is the commitment that will be made as a Government to the Spanish. This is very different from what you claim and what you are doing, which is simply a bilateral table with the Catalans, but not by the Catalans as a whole, not, with the independenceists and the sovereignists, which is before you knee-deep every time the independent whistle sounds. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm going to talk to you about a chiringuito, the one about the framework that Seville's Instruction Court No. 6 is going to investigate for payments in brothels with the bank cards of the Andalusian Foundation Training and Employment Fund. Does that ring a bell? That's a real chiringuite. You have the face to say you put people in the center. [[Applauds]] But if your government doesn't listen to anyone. He only listens to himself, Mr Sánchez, in order to remain in power, surrendering and surrendering the flag of Spain if necessary. As far as the autonomous communities are concerned, I have already told you - the pandemic has shown - that 17 uncoordinated health systems are in place. But I'm going to talk to him about what's important. As I said before, at the door of the presentation of the State General Budgets to this parliamentary group, he would have liked it to have come and brought in a medium-term fiscal adjustment plan, which is what we need, or - which is the same - the announcement of how the Government will proceed to bring in a plan for the rebalancing of public accounts. We already know that the tax rules have been suspended; however, this is not an obstacle for it to come forward - simply to present - a tax adjustment plan that it can carry out when circumstances permit. I think they don't because they have no idea how to do it, because they don't have a project for Spain as a whole in the medium and long term. You only know how to look at the past with resentment and the future of the year 2050, in which many of us will no longer be and can't blame it all for being a lie. Yes, the lie is the specialty of his boss, the president of the government, who has arrived in Moncloa lying to his people, his voters and his voters. [[applause]] So, if he lies to his own, what can we expect from the rest of him? Well, that's it. [[Applauds]] Spain continues to suffer the consequences of the continued absence of the real structural reforms that our country needs, and those reforms that have been implemented with the various governments, do you know what they have done? They have fattened the Official Gazette of the State, twisting and generating complexity in the rules, then being repealed by the following rulers of different political signs. In addition, many of these reforms have only succeeded in increasing the cost structure for public administrations, making them a real tax eater, without providing improvements in citizens' lives. A bottomless well. The European Commission has published a working paper entitled "Report on Spain 2020", from the European Semester, where it has again dealt with the problems arising from the fragmentation of market unity in Spain and restrictions on commercial activity in our country, which is the consequence of raising regulatory boundaries within our own nation. And it is that the justification of the autonomous communities as we know them lies in the legislative sphere, that is, in the autonomous political spending, which can only be justified by making autonomous laws, which in many cases are unnecessary because they replicate those of the state sphere and create gaps, yes, those gaps that you like to talk about so much, that prevent companies from growing up or families from freely deciding where to live or where to study their children. But, of course, if we eliminate the legislative power of self-government, what do we do with the autonomous politicians, their squires and their preachers? What do we do with all that set-up of places that would no longer have any reason to be and that should disappear? Look, I'm not talking about civil servants and real public servants, of those who do serve citizens, of those who are not left, of those we lack - teachers, health care workers, carers...-, but to generate those jobs, it doesn't take the politicians on duty to waste the time and money of the citizens. Services can be decentralized without so many politicians, understood by a young child. That's our model. In short, we need a reform of the system of autonomous financing, of course, but not the one you want. A financing system is urgently needed to ensure that the collection is for the benefit of the citizen, not the intermediaries; for the welfare of the Spaniards, rather than the welfare of the politicians; for the welfare of all Spaniards, regardless of where they live or where they live. [[Applauds]] And denying evidence is sin. On the street they won't be able to shut up for much CIS, for many shows, envelopes or realities that put us in their subsidized media. And it is that perseverance achieves everything, and Spain will prevail despite all of you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're celebrating that they're starting to take steps. First, that your adjusted population proposal will be presented in November. We also welcome the recognition, first of all, of this difference of EUR 800 between Valencians and the best-funded autonomous community. We also welcome the fact that for the first time in this House - and look how you and I have had differences - you have recognized that debt must be done something; a debt that does not come from the misuse of the funds of our public representatives, but comes, to a large extent, from that funding. Mrs Muñoz, Compromís gets more with a deputy than you do with ten, more than when he was fifty-seven or more than when he was thirty-two, which was absolutely nothing. If we pay debt, as some spokesman has acknowledged, if our second councillor is the debt councillor, it is largely due to that underfinancing, as the minister herself has acknowledged. Therefore, we cannot devote those resources with which we pay debt - which occurred in many cases also in the governments of the People's Party - to the welfare of the Valencians. I have to tell you, it's an absolutely astronomical debt. The minister spoke of attitude and climate. I also recognize that your attitude today is different. I remember he once told me that he invented my problems, but today he has recognized that the problem exists, and it is good that he recognizes it. But the attitude of the People's Party or of VOX or the climate in this House cannot be the excuse for not solving a problem that you yourself have recognized, the problems that we Valencians and Valencians have. And because I represent the interests of five million Valencians and Valencians I am not insolidary, on the contrary, I am supportive, because I want those five million Valencians and Valencians to have the same opportunities that they are having, for example, those inhabitants of the better financed autonomous community. I want to be supportive, and to be supportive is to want everyone to have the same opportunities. She said that there are alternative instruments to ensure cohesion, convergence and equality. Right now, cohesion, convergence and equality, with this outdated system that has not been reformed, are worsening in some autonomous communities. And he talked about the transitional compensation fund, which the Madrid People's Party did not want. But there are other instruments, and you, who are very intelligent, know them. Brave decisions must be made that do not pass by a qualified majority, but that can pass by a majority of this Congress, decisions in budgets, decisions in debt, decisions in current transfers that go in these budgets, in investments. In short, Madam Minister, the climate or attitude is not the excuse for five million Valencians to continue to endure an absolutely unjust system that does not allow us to access the average welfare of all the citizens of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u128	Thank you, President. Minister, I see that you are still wrong to make the same mistake, denying the evidence and scorning a parliamentary group that, from the very beginning, has extended its hand to you to contribute, to reform and to do great and good things for the Spaniards. You have the nerve for that and for more. It can be perfectly planted in Andalusia, its land, and defend the table of shame, where they continue to water with millions of our taxes to those who used public money to give a coup d'état to democracy in Catalonia, and in the meantime we keep the crumbs. And he spoke of Andalusia, which is his land, where you have defended with cloak and sword what we are defending today here and also in the Valencian Community. I'm not going to take the hemerotheque from you, as you've done with the rest of the speakers, but I remind you that when you were a counselor you were calling for a reform that you deny today. You have been ruling for three and a half years without making a gesture for this reform. Do you know what's going on? That, as you well know, the current system of autonomous financing is unfair, treats the autonomous communities unequally, produces significant inequalities between the Spanish and has expired since 2014. All these consequences of an expired system would not have occurred if the autonomous financing system had been reformed in 2014. But do you know what was going on then, Mrs. Montero? That Artur Mas celebrated the referendum with cardboard boxes in Catalonia. Today, those responsible for misappropriating billions of public money for a coup d'état have been pardoned by his Government, which has given them control over the accounts and wants to relieve them of their responsibility with the public treasury, passing over the Court of Auditors. Today they give them full-handed money to keep tying their vote to next year's budgets. The public services of the citizens are greatly affected by this aggravation, Mrs Montero, those of the Valencian Community, those of the Region of Murcia, those of the Andalusians - their land -. Mrs Montero, I am in the opposition and I am the one who is obliged to monitor and ask you the questions, not you to me. You said that my parliamentary group is a drifter, that you do not know where you are going, and I ask you where your Government is going and who you are staying with, whether with what Mr García-Page is asking in Castile-La Mancha or with what Puig is asking in the Valencian Community. You'll have to decide. It is clear that the system of autonomous financing is an obsolete system, which should have been reformed more than seven years ago and which represents to the thousand wonders the way in which bipartisanism has been operating in this country, demanding in the opposition what they are incapable of or refuse to do in the Government, and vice versa. Mrs Montero, you say that we have no attitude or ability to negotiate, but you have had an expert report since 2017 which talks about the measures that should be taken for a fair financing system for the whole territory: simplifying the system by making it transparent and equitable; making changes in the calculation of the population; enhancing cooperation between the territories and institutional loyalty. Indeed, it is complex and requires attitude, as we have already said. To continue with the proposals, I will tell you that in Citizens we believe that this financing system should address the issue of transparent debt restructuring, as you and Mr Baldoví have also commented. I say to you that we must avoid any kind of debt-removal issue, because it will only cause tax increases. Greater focus should be placed on administrative reforms and the elimination of unnecessary expenditure; accumulated funding deficits should be recognized as a result of the malfunctioning of the different funding systems; and compensation mechanisms should be established. Real politics, minister, useful and real politics. I reiterate that it has our commitment since the first day and that it has my commitment as Valencian and concerned about the underfunding of my territory and of the communities that also suffer it, because here, in Spain, despite many, there are no first-class citizens and second-class citizens, but we are all equal in rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u130	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I think it has become very clear in this debate what is the commitment of this government and, of course, what is the commitment and work that all socialists are doing where we govern and where we do not govern. Where we govern, as it is in the Valencian Community, with a president, Ximo Puig, who is doing an excellent job and demonstrating that it can be governed by dialogue and, moreover, that it can be governed by achieving results. It is precisely the intense work being done by the President of the Generalitat, Ximo Puig, in the company of all the Valencian socialists who are represented in the Chambers, in Congress and in the Senate, where we have ten deputies and seven senators, who are having results that are seen in Valencian society. The socialist government, the progressive government, is fulfilling its commitments - you said very well -. The Government of Pedro Sánchez is fulfilling and, in addition, in two ways: on the one hand, injecting more resources into the Valencian Community and the rest of the communities in the territory; but, on the other hand, it is recognizing that there is an intrinsic problem. Obviously, the 2009 funding model was better than the 2002 funding model - indeed, if it were for the People's Party or had not been improved - but it does have structural problems from the outset - not only since 2009, but from the very beginning, as the minister has explained - and therefore they need to be addressed. However, the real problem currently facing the Valencian Community and other communities is also due to the debt that has been generated during these years. As a result of not having revised the financing model in 2014, there has been a significant accumulation of debt. I would like to tell Mrs Montesinos that the People's Party presented a study that did not clearly determine what the position was going to be and that never took it to the council as a proposal of the People's Party; it simply establishes a series of reports, and point. He now does the same with tax reform. When the Government proposes a consultation with the autonomous communities and all of them to make their contributions to tax reform, the People's Party of the Madrid Community already says what its model is, that of tax competition to the low: it is unique and exclusively concerned to lower taxes, not to attend to the essential services of the community, as would be truly important. [[Applauds]] I do not have much more to add in this respect, because at the moment, having a socialist president in Spain and in the Valencian Community, I am sure that we will always solve the problems of citizens. The Socialist Party is a guarantee of responding to citizens, Valencians and Valencians, but everyone, live where they live, because that is our ultimate aspiration. I'm on my way. You said, Mrs Montesinos, that there is an important accumulated debt in the Valencian Community - we all recognize that - but I would like to say that you will remember that the People's Party has ruled for many years in the Valencian Community. Do you remember Zaplana? Do you remember Camps? Do you remember Fabra? For the biggest increases in debt in the Valencian Community were at that time. When the debt began to grow and accumulate from 2012, as I say, it was a consequence not only of the under-financing of the model, which also, but also because it was not resolved, because to meet the crisis you bet only and exclusively on loans and not on non-repayable transfers, as it is currently being done; in fact, it is clearly seen how while Rajoy has ruled the accumulated debt has increased and how it has been maintained in percentage terms with the government of President Pedro Sánchez. So, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to have much more intense content and less criticism in the forthcoming debates. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Blanquer. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Montesinos, you sometimes say things here in the rostrum that seem to have no importance and have a great ideological burden. You say in the rostrum that you are not going to be the subordinate party... He said something like that. Or that you are in subordination to the government, to the main opposition party. In short, I wanted to understand - I do not know what you have said with that of subordination - that, according to the People's Party, when citizens put political formation in the opposition they understand that they are subordinated to the legally established executive. Don't you? Didn't you say that? That's denying democracy. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel makes negative gestures]] So what did you say about subordination, Your Honor? If you don't know what they say when you come up to the rostrum, don't say anything, because you say this, it stays there... [[applause]] I don't know what it means for you to be subordinate. For me the People's Party deserves all my respect, it seems to me that it is legitimate in the approach of its ideas and, therefore... [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel makes negative gestures]] You do nothing more astounding when I speak; you will have seen that I have done none, that I do none when you are speaking. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u134	I ask you to at least be able to listen to me. If you don't share it, don't share it, but be able to listen to me. Your Honor, you have also said something in the rostrum that I do not know if I have understood correctly. Did you say that this government should bring the Andalusian document as a proposal of the funding model? [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel makes negative gestures]] No, no, But that's what you said here. You said that I, in my previous responsibility, elaborated and discussed Andalusia's position on the reform of the autonomous financing system. I did, and I worked hard. See if the model for Andalusia that the People's Party ultimately had to vote for was good; it did not participate or share it, but had to vote for it. Are you telling me to serve that basic document of the model discussion? [[Protests by Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel]] No, no, I'm asking because I think that's what you said in the rostrum. If the People's Party believes that this document can be the basis for the reform debate, because it shares the essential elements of this model, say so. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel makes negative gestures]] No, now it turns out not. If it's clear, when they say something they think is right for them, when it comes out, they say no. Now they do not want the Andalusian document to be the basis for reform of the model, although you have reproached me for not putting that document on the table as reform of the model. [[Applauds]] There's no one who understands it! In any case, what has become very clear to me is that you have told me that I have very little shame. I have not used any disqualifying adjective about you. And I'm not going down to the mud, Your Honor; you know I don't care, but I'm not going down. In your first speech you have made the position of the People's Party very clear and urged them to reflect. You said: you will not do the reform, the People's Party will do it when it rules. He said it in his first speech, he said it in his second speech, and I have to interpret it again. And I want to interpret what you say that you are certainly not going to work together to get this progressive government to push for a reform of autonomous financing. Let Spain fall, let us lift it up! That was his contribution. And if you do not recognize yourself in those words - I have taken them textually - look at the Journal of Sessions, because the clear subconscious is cheating. I ask the rest of the members of the People's Party, this political formation, to abandon that indolent tone; to abandon that destructive attitude; not to practice burnt-land politics; to bow their shoulders, that in this the Spanish Government will not benefit, do not worry. This will benefit the autonomous governments, in many of those you govern. Therefore, this debate cannot be crossed by the line of debate always brought by the People's Party of wear, disqualification and noise. It is already noise, and more so with the debate on funding; so much noise all it does is awaken the citizens of politics. Another question, Mrs Montesinos, I hope that if you propose that the model of autonomous financing have greater resources, greater than those that provide the economic cycle itself, you will agree that a tax reform will be necessary, won't you? Or not? Or do we say that we want more money, but that we lower taxes and that squares the equation? Mrs Cañizares, they have said that I have little shame and you have said that I have a lot of face. How beautiful these expressions here, in the Congress of Deputies! It gives me a certain degree of modesty. You go back up to the rostrum and put the accent - so I've understood - that here we don't bring an adjustment plan. Here we are talking about autonomous financing and you say that what is needed is to cut public spending. That's the adjustment plan, of course, or raise taxes. Or how do you think an adjustment plan is made? They cut expenses or they raise taxes, your aunt's not here. You don't want taxes to go up and you want public spending to be cut, and you use populism and demagogy to say: stop spending. Do you really believe that with spending, that I don't know what you call it, and I don't want to use your expressions, you are going to solve autonomous financing? According to you, where do you think it is necessary to remove expenditure from the Government of Spain in order to secure it for the autonomous communities? [[Mrs. Cañizares makes negative gestures]] Because we're talking billions of euros, eh, Your Honor? Defense, social security, pension system... Oh, no, you're welcome. Here's the deal. Here we say to give more money, to lower taxes, but it matters to you a cumin if that fits, if it is complementary or if it is incompetent. And you also say that you get to Moncloa by cheating on the citizens. I, truly, when I hear these expressions I say: what a lack of respect for the people who vote for us. Do you really believe that the support that my parliamentary group has had at the polls is because we have deceived people? Do you think people are silly, Mrs. Cañizares? Do you think people let themselves be deceived? Do you think that people are not able, with their vote, to choose and decide who wants to govern the future destinations of Spain? [[Mrs. Cañizares makes negative gestures]] That's called democracy. Now, if you understand that when citizens vote what you don't like, citizens are either deceived or wrong, you don't believe in democracy. And that's what happens to you. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, I fully agree that debt is one of the variables to be addressed in the reform of autonomous financing, not only debt, if you recall any of my interventions on this subject I have also talked about other elements that have to do with the sharing of efforts in relation to the stability objectives, and there are a number of components that are not an intrinsic part of the model, but that it is absolutely essential to be able to address them within this whole debate. I understand that the climate cannot be an excuse, but you also have to understand that political formations that are present in more than one territory have more difficulty in defining their position than those who represent only one territory. That is a reality that must be understood because, if not, we would not be in a position to make further progress. And when I speak of altitude of sight or of long lights, I am not referring to one giving up legitimately what he understands is of interest to his autonomous community; I am asking that, in addition to the interests of the autonomous community, one must yield, in part, in order to get the other to yield also elsewhere, because this is a debate of all. Here, many times, when we talk about the dialogue table with Catalonia, or we talk about the talks with the independence parties in Catalonia, essential for coexistence in our country, there are some who do not understand that because they only understand imposition. We also understand dialogue and we also understand that bridges of affection can be built between the territories. When we talk about altitude from sight, we are talking about that, probably, the position that you can defend here regarding autonomous financing and, despite your understanding with that political group, is different from that which you defend Republican Left of Catalonia, legitimately, and you are quite coincident in many other aspects of politics. In this, Mr Baldoví, your position and that of Esquerra are different. I know that you are not concerned, but I tell you that you have to understand the complexity, which is not that it is an excuse, but that it is a reality, because it is not that only the People's Party is at which it is - you have seen it and all the people have seen it - that, in order to agree with the groups that are not generalists in this House, there is also a complexity, because they represent very different interests. And if we're not aware of what's happening to us, we won't be able to move forward. We have to move forward knowing that this happens and therefore that one has legitimate positions, but that one has to give in throughout the debate and dialogue in order to try to reach agreement and consensus. The rest of the systems to which I referred, Mr Baldoví - the Cohesion Fund, the Interterritorial Cooperation Fund - must be complementary. Not that they are alternative to financing, but they have to be complementary. In other words, of course, territorial investment in our country is an instrument for territorial convergence. Of course, other instruments dealing with the provision of universal services are instruments for social cohesion. And that's also important to keep and it's important that we work on it, because autonomous funding isn't going to fix everything. Convergence also has to follow a parallel path that allows communities with lower income levels to converge towards communities with higher income levels, because we all need it, and because even those with higher income levels are interested in increasing consumption in communities with lower income; they are also interested in it. That is why this is not a question of territorial aggravation. The citizen spokeswoman has gone to shame: little shame, face... I'm naked. Then you say that why do we qualify you as the right, but it is that even to address me use you - with nuances, right? - profiles of the same type. Madam Spokesman, I will tell you one thing: you voted against the funding model that was presented for Andalusia. They were the only political party that voted against Andalusia's autonomous funding. That is why, Your Honor, you are not coming to the rostrum to reproach me for whether or not I support the funding model for Andalusia. Because when you voted against you said - here are the minutes of the Andalusian parliament, and I was - that you could not vote in favour because you were prevented from doing so from above. There are the minutes; that's what you said in Andalusia. And now Mr Marin, the vice-president, goes to the board and takes the document and, as a flag - someone who had not voted it, a political formation who had not voted it - tries to use it as a weapon of confrontation against this government. Now what do we call this, like a hunch? Or what do we call it, Your Honor? Because I don't want to use sounding expressions. You lie about this matter, and you don't care. You see: an opposition group does not have as its only role, as you have said in this rostrum, the wear on the government, no, who told you that? [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal makes negative gestures]] Yes, because you say: how are we going to make proposals, if it turns out that we are the opposition? You said so, Your Honor. That means that the only objective of the opposition parties would be to wear down the Government. No, Your Honor, of course you not only aim to control the government, which is the expression you have used, you have to make proposals, you have to hold your shoulder, you have to be faithful to the representation of the citizens who voted for you. That's what citizens have to do and not that sort of permanent crutch with the right-wing parties. [[Applauds]] I have said this many times from this rostrum also to your leader, to Mrs Arrimadas: precisely because of this confusion, that lack of differentiation of the political space of the right, where there is no one and where you are directly despised - and there are autonomous governments like that of the Community of Madrid, where you are directly despised - you should look to the right and left because some citizens thought that you could be a bisagra party and yet from the first day you denied this government bread and salt and are not willing to compromise anything. I want to thank Mrs. Blanquer. Indeed, we are insecure of discouragement - you already know us - and we will continue to work, despite the noise and lack of attitude on the part of some political formations, to attempt partial consensus that will eventually allow us to find a financing model that will need this adjustment between the pieces, but it will be much easier to agree on the part, because as you have seen in my intervention the global positions on the model are radically different from one territory to another, and also within the political formations themselves, because it is not a political problem, it is a problem of defending territorial interests. This government will continue to work, ladies and gentlemen; this government hopes to reach a consensus despite the noise. This Government has committed that in November, following discussions with all the territories, it will present the proposal for a possible consensus on the adjusted population. And we will, as always, be open to funding that, above all, guarantees equity in the provision of public services for all Spaniards, live where they live; a government that gives health, education and public services their proper role. Hand open to all. I expect from you a constructive attitude, an attitude that allows us to look in the medium term, to put the citizens at the centre of the system and, therefore, to rely on the public because it is the guarantee of security for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u136	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to give an account of the agenda and content of the agenda of the evil so-called dialogue table, in reality the table of self-determination, between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat de Catalunya, held on 15 September 2021. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u137	Thank you, Madam President. We'll do it again. We will do so again, ladies and gentlemen, it could be the threat of the pardoned secessionists, but in this case it is the affront that Spain suffers from a government that has again pleaded with the independenceists who defy the unity of Spain. Yes, Sanchez has done it again. It has once again turned its back on the general interest of Spain, which represents a majority of constitutionalists who at the base of the Constitution trust to preserve democracy, which guarantees freedom without reprisals or threats and in equality, wherever they live, whether Catalonia, Castilla-La Mancha or Madrid. And yes, Sanchez has done it again. What a movie! The Socialist Party has changed its distribution, neither Ella nor Calvo, and you from Esquerra Republicana have changed your production of tragicomedia, from Torra to Aragonès. The title is already the least: dialogue table, rendezvous agenda, negotiating table. A farce, ladies and gentlemen, a farce. On September 15, Sanchez did it again, yes, at a table with the threatening and challenging Catalan government. But the table, ladies and gentlemen, the table is neither institutional nor legitimate. It is not institutional as it is not within the framework of the ordinary institutional relations between the central Government and self-government. And it has no legitimacy since it is constituted outside these General Courts, and because the political forces that sat there do not represent the whole of Spain or the whole of Catalonia. It therefore has no legal effect, none. That's right, Sánchez genuflexions and then smile; smile at the table, smile at the table, smile at the table, smile at Aragonès, at the flash, smile at him and smile at his extras. And among them was Minister Rodriguez, a mannega, who we don't know if she was there because Sánchez wants to take a 'quixote' to the table or to blow Page's nose. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting lasted one hundred and twenty minutes; one hundred and twenty minutes and we know nothing; we know nothing; we only know that the product of the Sanchez meetings is inversely proportional to the time he invests in them, because twenty-nine seconds with Biden gave him to almost fix the world, and one hundred and twenty minutes, two hours of meeting, one hundred and nine minutes and thirty-one seconds more with Mr Aragonès, and we know nothing. We know the same thing as when my colleague, Mr. Garcés, here, questioned Minister Rodriguez and demanded the agenda, and demanded the Minutes, and knew nothing. It's just that there's nothing, ladies and gentlemen, there's no agenda, no methodology, no timetable, no name, nothing. Now, we start from two premises: a premise, that of Sánchez, who says that neither amnesty nor referendum, but asks for time knowing that his survival depends on the persistence of the will to agree; and that of Aragonès, what is sharp: amnesty to secessionists and referendum of self-determination. Their survival is also on it. But, ladies and gentlemen, who lies here? Who's lying here? It's very clear, lies the lord of lies, the champion of lies, the one who always lies, Sanchez. It's all paradoxical and antagonistic. Can we consent to what Albacete has to be decided in the back of the Gothic Quarter of Barcelona? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what Albacete has to be, because they are not confused, this is not from Catalonia, this is from Spain, and Albacete is Spain, like Lleida, Gerona, Barcelona, Tarragona, Seville, Madrid or Ciudad Real. Now they'll say it flames Page; flames, yes; and Lamban and Rod, so what? Has that prevented a new picture of infamy? Did that prevent the pardons of the secessionists? Look, the moment Sanchez left the genuflexion in Barcelona, he crossed the Ebro, and to Lamban he told him: you to share the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games with Catalonia. And Extremadura and Castilla-La Mancha, and Vara and Paje, said unto them, There is no A-43. And what have they done? Silence, lest from the kitchen of Ferraz they go to raise their candidacy. Here they are all the same, they are all in the same: in their armchair. Sanchez to his, Vara to his, Paje, president of Castilla-La Mancha, to his. Because we have to see what is the role of the Minister of the Interior, who left more than EUR 11 billion in Catalonia, more than EUR 11 billion. Is that what the negotiation was for? For that? When minutes earlier here, in the rostrum, he boasted of emotion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, replace emotion for reason, for high doses of reason to govern this country, to face its territorial cohesion, its modernity and the problems that really affect everyone. Why don't we talk about autonomous financing? Why don't we talk about the great challenge of this country, which is the demographic challenge? Why do we not talk about a just ecological transition and not about the ideological transition that they want to impose on us? But let us do so within the constitutional framework, in accordance with the principles of cooperation and cooperation between the territories, and from multilateralism. [[The Lord]] President Casado has his hand stretched out. Yes, he has his hand stretched out to President Sánchez; and Sánchez does not smile because humor has already spent it on those who hold him. He wants to be the man not of picking up the glove, but of recovery and reconciliation. And you know what Sanchez is? A rupturist twister at the table of coups, playing the national sovereignty, the unity of Spain and the rights of the citizens. [[Applauds]] And do you accuse us, ladies and gentlemen, of chrispation? Do they accuse us of chasm and provocation? Provocation of his, the one the Socialist Party is doing. The Member of the Socialist Group will now come up, and he will also accuse us of immobilism. Look, motionless means to be firm and constant, and that is the People's Party: firm and constant in the only containment dam that has its pretensions, which is the law. And that's where the People's Party has always been: with the law. Only with the law, but with all the force of the law. That's where nobody's gonna move us. To conclude, I will make two pleas: one is that they abandon all pretension, all hope of dialogue with a nationalism that is insatiable and that leads only to frustration. And secondly, that they support this motion if they still want to show that there is something left of the Socialist Party that went and that Sánchez is committed to burying. Recognize their commitment to the Constitution, delegitimize any solution outside the Constitution and prevent the dismantling of State institutions in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u138	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The deputy Navarro Lacoba rightly recalled that at the end of 2018 there was a shameful meeting for the state, in the Barcelona palace of Pedralbes, from you to you between the president of the Government of Spain and the then president of the Generalitat, and that it is the precedent of this table of capitulation with the Catalan independenceists, and another pretext for Pedro Sánchez to continue prolonging this XIV Legislature, maintaining himself with the parliamentary support of those who want to break the unity of Spain and the Constitution, in pursuit of his separatist goal. Before yesterday, one of the sectors trying to accelerate this process of secession by fascicles moved the rest of the independent actors, parliamentary partners of the Government, to jointly negotiate the next General Budgets of the State in order to achieve the maximum possible force, and to serve as a basis for negotiation by amnesty and self-determination. The next budgetary scene also had a precedent with the negotiation between the convicts in the prison of Lledoners and Podemos, who in this legislature sits with five seats in the blue bank. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of the unacceptable withdrawal of the Spanish flag at the end of the first meeting between Sánchez and Aragonès is the graphic expression of the final objective that some people have drawn from minute one, and which involve concessions that break equality between Spaniards, such as the renunciation of reforming the funding system that we have just discussed in this Congress. I will support the five points of this motion, as a result of an inquiry, because they reflect the mandates and laws that allow us to combat separatism, the main threat that the Spaniards have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u140	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. After the meeting in Barcelona, I would like to ask the Socialist bench a question. When the flag of Spain is withdrawn, don't you feel anything? Do you think it's the most normal thing? Do you think it's usual when you go back to your places, those that aren't from Madrid, or anywhere else? Do you think people understand that the Government of Spain allows the flag of Spain to be removed from a meeting in which the Government of Spain participates? Do you think that's normal? They talk about compliance with the Constitution. Have you read what Article 4 of the Constitution says? You know what he says? Do you know what symbols are? Because, of course, when you talk about these things, you say: well, in the end a flag does not stop being a piece of cloth, etc. No, man, no. What happened there with the flag is very significant, because it shows that one of the objectives of the Government of Catalonia is to leave out everyone who is not an independentist in Catalonia. With that gesture what they are doing is to mistreat all those who are not independentists in Catalonia, who do not laugh at them and who have not voted for them, and that the president of the Government of Spain, of all the Spaniards, cannot allow it. He is letting people who live in Catalonia, who work in Catalonia, who pay their taxes in Catalonia, be treated as citizens no longer second, but worse than that, as stinking in their own land. In the end, as has been said here, it is a table that is useless, because, no matter how much it is said - that is what the attention is drawn to - the President of the Government of Spain knows that he will never be able to give what Catalonia asks, and Catalonia knows not Catalonia, but the Catalan independenceists - that he will never achieve that political objective. We all know what is happening, and more and more things are being seen, but, of course, what cannot be tolerated is that an autonomous government that is due to all its citizens is mistreating more than half of the population, of those citizens. He's mistreating them. And what is even worse is that the President of the Government of Spain not only consents to it, but applauds it and humbles himself before the Catalan President with the withdrawal of the flag, leaving the whole of Spain on the ground. It's not just him! It is all that represents the flag of Spain, which represents the Spanish as a whole. It is a humiliation by the President of the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u142	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u143	Eguerdi on, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, have you read your proposal twice before submitting it? Because, from my point of view, at least it is incoherent, not only in the background, but also with its past. Moreover, the proposals they make make no sense, they make no sense. In relation to Catalonia, they point out that the Constitution guarantees coexistence. Well, if most of Catalonia's society is against that Constitution or the reading of it, how is it going to ensure coexistence? Don't you realize that they use phrases that don't make any sense? Moreover, this morning I listened to Mrs Uriarte pointing out that the dialogue table of the Socialist Party and Podemos with the independenceists is against the majority of Catalan society. You math guys are bad too, aren't you? They haven't made the sum. But, if that were not enough, in the face of the majority demand of Catalan society for the right of self-determination and more than half of society for independence, you recite Article 2 of the Constitution. What do you think, that it's a constitutional exorcism? What do you think, that you are going to convince the majority of Catalan society through this article and its repetition? What if they don't convince them what? The Inquisition, isn't it? The colt or the bonfire. Or what we saw on October 1st: beating up grandmothers, political prisoners, exiles. Is that your formula? How is resolution sought to a conflict of a political nature? How is it done in the world? But let's get to the bottom of it, too. You now present yourselves as the highest defenders of the Constitution, as rigors. As Mrs Navarro said, firm and constant. No, man, no! Already since the beginning of the adoption of the Constitution only half of his party voted in favour; the other half of the deputies either voted against or abstained. Not to mention the Basque Autonomous Community, where its party voted against the Statute of Gernika. Today they are represented and written here: '...in defense of the bloc of constitutionality'. Well, look, two years ago I was in the Senate and you put forward a proposal to stop the transfer of pending powers under the Statute of Gernika; that is, you defending an unconstitutional position. So less flowers. Don't pry papers you haven't had. Moreover, it is true that you have had a changing position and you have now become rigorists with a rigorous interpretation of the Constitution. We could say that they have become the constitutional Taliban, because it is a lie and it is false that they say that the Constitution does not accommodate a referendum on self-determination. False! Depends on how it's interpreted. This is not because I say it, that I do not consider it to have legitimacy in Euskal Herria, where it did not have the support of the social majority. No, you didn't, Mr. Garcés. There are constitutionalists, such as Mr Carles Viver, who have put forward a proposal for five legal channels for a referendum. Moreover, if you do not like Mr Carles Viver, there is Mr Rubio Llorente, who in 2012 presented a proposal for a legal and constitutional way for a referendum in Catalonia. By the way, I am surprised that the Socialist Party no longer looks at it or does not explore it. If you don't like Mr. Rubio Llorente either, look at Mr. Herrero de Miñon, when he said: 'Self-determination is part of the current Constitution'. Are you going to condemn Mr. Herrero de Miñon? Don't you like this gentleman anymore? Don't they have him as a reference? Moreover, the curious thing is that this proposal they are making attempts to criminalize dialogue. After 1 October - that shame you carried out when you were in the government, beating up old ladies and gentlemen - what did the European Union tell you? What did the Council of Europe tell you? What did the President of the Council of Europe tell you? No violence and dialogue. And now they're trying to criminalize the dialogue? But it is that, being consistent and looking into your past, you have also made tables of dialogue and not precisely with Governments. I remember that at that time Mr Aznar himself was saying that Basque independence is legitimate if it is not imposed by force. That's a good statement. Don't you agree with Mr. Aznar? This proposal is incoherent, ridiculous and makes no sense, with which we will vote against it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The truth is that I am not going to get into today's speech, because I honestly don't know what exactly was to do with the proposal and how Albacete could be put into that speech. After reading Mr. Garcés' speech the other day in the interpellation, I have to tell him that the only thing we're going to agree on is you and me winning the Athletic. Frankly, I was surprised by the aggressiveness - somewhat vitriolic - of the intervention in that interpellation, so I'm going to stick briefly to what you are proposing. On the one hand, they say that any self-determination referendum that can be proposed is legally and politically impossible now or in the future. That's not true. According to the Spanish Constitution, a referendum can perfectly be convened in agreement with the State, setting the terms, a consultative referendum, etc. Of course you can; and also a referendum of self-determination, because everything can be reformed. Absolutely everything in the Spanish Constitution can be reformed. On the other hand, they call for any relationship or encounter between the two administrations outside the framework of the statute to have no legal effect. He wants us to declare it. But if everyone knows they don't! It does not have it in the sense that the agreements that can be made - even by referendum, if given - will then have to be transformed through laws and through different mechanisms established by the legal system. Of course everyone knows that the agreement reached at the table does not automatically become part of the legal system! Therefore, it seems absolutely unnecessary to me. And, by the way, not everything that is not contained in the legal order is illegal or unfeasible. It will be illegal or inviable what is contrary to the legal order, but this table of political dialogue is not at all contrary to the legal order per se. No, it's not. With regard to increasing or extending state public services throughout Catalonia to meet the needs of citizens, I believe that the needs of citizens are well met, taking into account the sharing of powers and the sharing of powers. This obsession with more police, Civil Guard and officials to notice Spain or with putting more flags to notice I think it gives a feeling of little confidence in your own Constitution and the legal system. In the end, it gives the feeling that you do not believe what is approved by this House.Do you really believe in the autonomy and the division of powers that have been given by the institutions and that has been approved through popular votes or not? You don't believe the Constitution? You don't believe the statute? On the other hand, the fifth point certainly does not, a non-routine, because in its content it is also an attack on Euskadi; it is an attack on the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre. It says: To guarantee multilateralism in both the political, administrative and budgetary spheres, so that effective equality of treatment is preserved in all communities. Look, the bilateral relationship is the essence of the foral system and we will never give up on it, because that essence of the foral system also appears in the Constitution. I repeat that we are never going to give up on it and I would recommend that in those places where there is a problem of national identification, they look for these kinds of exits, encounters and bilateral relations. Do not turn the autonomous communities into a ballast, a wall containing the will of those places and communities that feel like a nation, because the only thing that leads to confrontation is a bad idea. Enough coffee for everyone, because of those dusts, these muds and these problems. I cannot agree with Mr Martínez Oblanca's statement that separatism is Spain's main threat. As long as it is through democratic channels, everything is viable. In my view, the main threat to Spain at the moment is the attack on democracy, the danger of totalitarianism, intolerance and uniformizing imposition. Those are indeed the real dangers to the future of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u146	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I begin by saying that no one will be surprised that Citizens will vote in favour of the motion put forward today by the People's Parliamentary Group on this evil so-called table of dialogue; that euphemistically called table of governments, where the Government of Spain buys the account from Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, together with Podemos and the left-wing populisms, to delegitimize the rule of law and, ultimately, to stain or to give excuses for the independenceists to question in Europe the good image of Spain. This table of shame that they call a negotiating table is not a negotiating table with Catalonia; it is a negotiating table with the Republican Left of Catalonia, which represents a minority of Catalans and which represents them with the idea of subjugating, quieting and removing the voice of the majority of Catalan constitutionalists, whose voice should be represented by the Government of Spain, the Government of all. But The Government of Spain is silent, the Government of Spain buys the account of independence, the Government of Spain buys the story from Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. They say it is a table of governments, a bilateral negotiating commission of those of article 153 of Law 40/2015, which seeks to coordinate the competences of the State with those of the autonomous communities. What are you coordinating? Do you have competences in the field of amnesty, which do not exist? Are they coordinating the powers of self-determination referendum? Are they coordinating the powers to unilaterally declare the independence of a part of the national territory? Where are the records of that alleged administrative body? This is a table between the PSC and the Republican Left of Catalonia where Podemos is; and the problem is that we don't know what bank Podemos sits on, whether in Spain or on the other side, assuming that Spain appears represented at that table. It is an extra-parliamentary party table that does what it does is to humiliate the Parliament of Catalonia and its powers, since that is where it must be negotiated between political groups. And if it's a government table, why only with Catalonia? Is it that Extremadura, Asturias - as Mr Martínez Oblanca says -, Andalusia or Valencia on financing issues do not have the right to that table of governments? Why do we reward Mr Aragonès or Mr Rufián, who are dedicated to disobeying the mandates of the Constitutional Court, violating the law, declaring the independence of a part of the national territory from what our Constitution and laws provide, and do not reward or give prominence to other autonomous communities that need this negotiating table? Why does the Government of Spain put Spain on its knees with these divestitures, putting the Government of Spain in the hands of the independenceists? And in exchange for what does the Spanish government put in the hands of the independenceists? To support families? The reconciliation of work or family life? To lower taxes? To help the self-employed? No, no. In exchange for removing Spanish as a language of teaching in Catalonia. In exchange for wanting to raise taxes to the Madriders because we have surpassed them in gross domestic product for the first time. And this is only an advance payment, because then, after putting the Government of Spain in their hands, comes the fat payment: first, the pardons, offending the Supreme Court and offending the Prosecutor's Office, and then the summit, about the bails of those who embezzled public funds according to the Court of Auditors and that we will pay all the Spaniards, who are also the victims, making the head of my dear State Advocate, who has had to make a paper from which there are no words, because the function of the State Advocate is to defend the Public Treasury. I should have said that with public money, which comes precisely from the victim of the crime itself, you can't consolidate those patrimonial breaches of the Public Treasury. You can't. [[Applauds]] Since you are not happy and know that Mr. Sánchez is dependent on you, they say: Well, let Mr. Sánchez come to the table and so we humiliate Spain more. And as if it were the courtyard of a school, making a scoundrel, they say, "And let's see what face it puts now when we take away the flag of Spain." But Mr. Sánchez does not change, nor does he change. He gives them the reason, buys them the concepts, starts talking about political conflict and recognizes that Spain and Catalonia are entities in equal bargaining and not the latter an autonomous community. He allows it and does not do it out of goodism, but does it out of pure political opportunism. That's why we call it the table of shame and we'll keep calling it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u148	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u149	Thank you, President. I will try to bring some thoughts with a certain serenity and not with the overexcitation of those members who have come to this rostrum to defend the position of the motion. A first reflection is that the proposer and some others who have come up to this rostrum come to say that this table is useless. In order not to serve anything, how many hours and minutes you occupy in your speeches, motions, PNL, etc.! If it's no use, don't worry. If you really can't have any effect, don't worry. There is a second issue that I wanted to stress. I rise here in this rostrum to defend this dialogue table and to defend its need knowing the risk I take, knowing that it is very difficult to reach solutions that we can consider a success. It is a risk that I understand that we must take and not everyone is taking it in Catalonia nor everyone is taking it obviously in the rest of the Spanish state. If dialogue is not a solution to the political conflict, come up here and say what the solution is. If you deny the political conflict in Catalonia obviously you do not need any solution, but it is clear that there is a political conflict in Catalonia and, therefore, it is clear that we must try to resolve this political conflict through dialogue, knowing that it is an absolutely difficult journey. A sample we have had here today with some of the speeches that have been heard and those that we are going to hear. I deeply regret that the People's Party is in the positions it is currently in. Perhaps I am mistaken - although I am convinced that I am not - but I am sure that the People's Party would not have the position it is currently having if it did not feel so close to VOX's rebuf - yes, Mr Garcés - that it is an absolutely extremist party in all situations. You are denying the possibility of two governments dialogue, because Mr Aragonès is not the general secretary of Esquerra - I don't know what position he has in Esquerra - but Mr Aragonès, whether you like it or not, is the president of the Generalitat, the legitimate president of the Generalitat. And Mr Pedro Sánchez, as much as you say that he is the illegitimate president of an illegitimate government, is the president of the Spanish government, and when you sit, two governments sit and talk about politics. The legal solutions of the political agreement already reached are already being implemented in accordance with the current legislation - that is obvious - and the current legislation gives scope to find solutions that can fit within its so-called Constitution, as other speakers have reminded them here. Therefore, I do not understand the position of the People's Party. I'm not going to get into the five points because each is a bigger misconception. You may think that the one is a misconception, but it seems very right to you when you read the two; and the two seems right to you when you read the three. It is a cluster of misconceptions that I am sure under normal conditions neither Mrs Navarro nor Mr Garcés present. Now it is about two things: to wear down the government constantly - anything is worth it and, of course, Catalonia is among the favourites; it is in the safe top 3 - and, after that, to encourage animosity - I don't mean hate, because I don't want to use this word - from a certain part of Spain that doesn't understand the political reality of Catalonia to go against Catalonia. This certainly does not bring any solution and this harms you; it harms the Spanish State that you intend to defend and that you intend to strengthen and does not generate any solution. I'm finishing up. Faced with the challenge of a dialogue table that can be a solution, even if there are people in Catalonia who want to boycott it from the beginning and people in the rest of Spain who want to boycott it, we bet and risk that this table can be a solution point. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u150	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u151	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad to be back in right-wing group therapy that they ride from time to time. [[Rumors]] Good thing you don't have to make a speech. I don't have to make a speech because they always end up saying the same thing - it's Marmot Day -, so what I do is take notes of what they say - and still lack VOX -: affront, cheekbone, humiliation, farce, litigation, offense, shame and - my favorite, the one always said by the comrades of Citizens - on their knees. I think they have some special affiliations or phobias - I'm not going to qualify - because we're talking about politics. It's just that we talk about politics, we talk about dialogue, we talk about two antagonistic parties recognizing each other, we talk about doing our work in the end, because I understand that we are politicians and politicians here. We're not bakers who make bread, we're not politicians. The truth is that it is rather curious, Kafkian, that there are politicians and policies that are against politics, because, in the end, two institutions, that two governments representing so many things and so many people, such as the Government of Spain and the Government of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, meet, recognize and stop threatening, I think it is all right. I think the vast majority of normal people like it, because it exhausts the other. The other wears out and has even been shown to be useless. You've imprisoned, you've beaten, you've spied, you've slandered, and there's still independence. We are not going to disappear and neither are you, erg we will have to talk, we will have to do our job. It's been funny to me, Mrs. Navarro, that we want to decide what Albacete has to be. With all due respect to the good people of Albacete, I don't care what Albacete is. I want the people of Albacete to live well and decently, although, by the way, if you govern, you have it quite complicated. And it has also made me funny that Married is with his hand stretched out. That's right, isn't it? [[Extend the arm to the side with the palm of the open hand]] Literally, because, if you can... I am also pleased that you, PP and Citizens, constantly say and verbalize directly that Esquerra Republicana does not represent anyone or that it represents few people, when you have three deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia - three - and Citizens has gone from thirty-six to six, you have lost thirty. [[heading towards the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] They're nine together. There are groups of Whatsapp with more people. [[Laughter]] And we're the ones who don't represent people in Catalonia? It's a bad intellectual exercise. Listen to me: I wish in this country - because I think this country deserves it - there would be a moderate right, there would be a modern right, there would be a civilized right, there would be a European right. In Spain there are many anomalies, many. In Europe, the right is often the one that slows down the far right. Who's stopping the far right in Germany is Merkel. Here no one doubts - and here is the anomaly, one of the main - that you, if you can one day - and it is likely that one day you will get it - will arrive in the Moncloa with the support of the ultra-right without blinking. Not much is written about, not much is spoken of, not much is said, but it is a terrible anomaly, because we come from where we come from. I wish here there was a modern, civilized and European right that would stop the far right. I ended up saying something: listen, maybe you're right, maybe we don't represent anyone, maybe we're very few, maybe independence is super minority. Let's vote. What are we gonna lose? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u152	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u153	President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the reading of a quote from Nietzsche on his hypothesis of the eternal return: 'How would you feel if one day or night a demon sneaks into your deepest solitude and says to you: This life, as you live now and as you have lived it, you must live it once again and innumerable times more. And there will never be anything new in it, but every pain and every pleasure, every thought and every sigh of your life must return to you?' [[...]] I must confess that this circular idea of Nietzsche's events has always tormented me, it has always distressed me, but it is how I feel that I spend time in this Congress with the PP and Catalonia. Mr. Rufián was talking about right-wing group therapy, which is becoming more and more exhausting. The truth is that with this day of the marmot we are condemned to relive, to hear countless times the same story, the same motion this morning even, the same lies. We are placed in a temporary loop which is, as I say, very tiring. So today, to get a little out of that loop routine, I was thinking of doing something different. Do not be afraid, I have not come here to insult; these are things of the right, of the extreme right. I have basically brought you four covers of newspapers that highlight what I wanted to say in my speech. [[Shows four covers of different newspapers]] The first, Diario de Sevilla, Major Oreja Minister of the Interior with the People's Party: 'I would be willing to sit with ETA'. Secondly, this is from La Voz de Galicia, just before 1996: 'Aznar admits that Basque independence is legitimate if it is not imposed by force'. Third, from El Mundo, a newspaper not suspected of being leftist: 'Aznar opens the dialogue with ETA'. That was the time when ETA was killing and Aznar was talking about the Basque National Liberation Movement. The fourth, The World, 2013: 'Moroto defends his covenants with Bildu and wants him to set an example'. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, how dare you come here again and again to be indignant, to make scares, to overact, when you tried to reach agreements with ETA? How could they be in favour of sitting down to dialogue with ETA and being against the dialogue between two legitimate governments leaving the ballot box? [[Applauds]] Citizenship has memory; stop fooling us, a little respect. Mrs. Navarro, you tell us that the table is illegal and unconstitutional. How will a table be unconstitutional, please? How will dialogue be unconstitutional, if it also says that it serves nothing, that it has no legal effect? Why are we talking about nothing? Had the Constitutional Court ruling No. 42 of 2014 been read, I would see that the Constitutional Court has already spoken about this and has said that this is the legitimate democratic way to resolve such political conflicts. Anyway, if it's illegal and unconstitutional for you, go to court. You're a law graduate, which is why I don't know what you're talking about. In any case, it could be unconstitutional an agreement that comes out of that table, but the dialogue itself can never be unconstitutional, that's ridiculous. You know what's unconstitutional? His proposal for Catalonia: The application of 155 indefinite. It is so unconstitutional that the Constitutional Court that you now refuse to renew it in a judgment. Sitting down to dialogue is not unconstitutional, nor is it a betrayal, surrender or humiliation of Spain, as has been said before. Nor to Catalonia, as some independenceists have said. Sitting down to dialogue, which is what Europe is asking for - even the Pope is asking for - is an obligation of any Democrat; it is the only democratic method or the most legitimate method of resolving conflicts. It's a victory of politics. In democracy it is necessary to dialogue, to reach agreements with those who think differently. Moreover, you should know, how Aznar knew when he agreed with Pujol in the Majestic, that Spain cannot be governed without accepting that plurinationality, without accepting that there are different identities and that the people, the parties that represent them, have the same legitimacy as you to be in this Congress, because that is democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, get out of the day of the marmot, stop taking our hair, stop agitating hatred and confrontation, which we have memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u154	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Segura Just has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u155	Mr President, it was my turn to have spoken yesterday, but I am speaking today, and I am going to say one thing I wanted to have said yesterday. Witchcraft has been a legal activity in Spain for two hundred years. Being a witch or a witch is not a crime. If you, socialist gentlemen, want it to be a crime, make a law to make it a crime and then it will be an insult. We will be against it, logically. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr President, I have to tell you that I have heard here that the people of VOX have been called murderers, genocidals, criminals and you do not change, and because a deputy, a colleague of mine, José María Sánchez, who is there, calls a deputy a witch, you expel him from the room. That's a double measuring rod. [[Applauds]] I'm done with this subject, because the truth is that I'm a little angry, and I come here to talk about something else, but to finish the matter, I remind you that I'm from Barcelona and in a town called Cervera there's a party every year, El Aserre, sponsored by the city council, and I've seen with my eyes socialist councillors applaud the witches and witches wings, so that you don't come now with stories and don't give up. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As far as the dialogue table is concerned, I am here for a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Party. Of course, VOX is going to vote yes, because in this we agree, we are for the unity of Spain. Now, gentlemen of the People's Party, I have to remind you of one thing: you complain about a dialogue table, but you didn't put a table, you put a free bar in the Majestic in 1996, in which Mr. Jordi Pujol laughed with forgiveness of the expression - saying: This Mr. Aznar, the one from the mustache, has given me everything I have asked for and more things from which I have asked, skills that I have not asked and given them to me. This is the concept that we have about what you understand by table and free bar. With regard to the legitimacy of this dialogue table, there is no validity of the agreements reached in it. Why? Very simple, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya in the Parliament of Catalonia represents 23%, the rest of the groups, specifically VOX, Citizens, PP, PSC and Junts pel 3 percent, represent 60%, thus having no validity, because the majority of the people of Catalonia are not at that table. At that table there is only one party, nothing more, that does not represent Catalans. On the subject of pretensions, the Generalitat is very clear, wants the referendum and wants amnesty, that is very clear. And the socialists do what we call in Catalan marijar la perdiu, mariár la perdiz: to delay, to wait for two years to pass, the legislature will be over, another government will come, and the other government that will hold the dialogue table. But in the meantime, you guys are spinning, spinning and spinning. They are acting like trileros, that is, the socialists are the real trilers of Spanish politics. I tell you one thing, when I give my hand to a socialist, I always count my fingers, not that I have taken one. [[Applauds]] At this point, the socialists are doing what they are doing is putting three cubes on that table, where there are supposed to be three balls, one self-determination, one referendum and another amnesty, and Mr. Pere Aragonès is looking at how those balls move. What I don't know, from VOX, is whether those balls are there or Mr. Sánchez has only put a ball or there is none. This is the uncertainty that Catalans have. I tell you one thing: the independenceists, from getting up in the morning until they lie down, know perfectly well everything they have to do. You socialists don't even know where to start. As far as concessions are concerned, there will obviously be concessions. I want to know if it's going to be the police station of Via Laietana, the Bruch barracks, the airport, the Coast Law, competitions, taxes... This is what we don't know and I'd like to know, because this is what will end in the end. Last but not least, this dialogue table is a real trap. Why? Because it places in equal rights the Generalitat, the Catalan State and the Spanish State. What's going on? That if the table ends badly for us, there will be a referendum, that will be given by the socialists; if it ends well what will happen? That they will automatically go to the European Commission, the UN and the European Parliament saying that Spain has broken the dialogue table and has set itself on equal terms with Catalonia. And what is a simple internal political conflict will become a conflict of international politics, and then it will be Europe that imposes mediation on us. With this, ladies and gentlemen, and it has now ended, only a warning to Mr Sánchez, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u156	Your Honor, you must determine.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u157	If you follow this course, you can end up on the bench for extra-limitation of functions and for treason to Spain. There's only VOX left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for the Journal of Sessions and for the children who are watching us right now: Cervera is in Lleida. I would like to make this clear because there are some Members who are from Barcelona but do not know where Cervera is. [[Applauds]] Mrs Navarro, your group's interest in your motion is clearly improved, as can be seen from the absence of Members on your bench, with which I do not know whether you would speak of immobilism or desirousness for what you yourselves are presenting. What really pains me is this drift to which Married is leading to PP, a drift that leads them to bring a motion against the dialogue table, abominating and reneging on the word. The bad thing about doing things hot is that there is no filter and with Married you have no filter. The words are not harmless, as we have unfortunately seen in this House. Words weigh, and writing weigh even more, and you cannot camouflage some points that may be in some common places after an infamous and pitiful statement of motives that directly attacks the heart of democracy, that is, the word. So be honest and be brave. You speak of a dialogue table and, in an aprioristic exercise, you already presuppose intentions, paths and conclusions that exist only in your head. Denying the word means blinding the path of solutions, and whoever closes the path of solutions already knows what they are looking for, what it is to perpetuate the dispute, and there you are. I wonder what motivates them to do that, because it will not be because of its outcome in Catalonia, where they are an increasingly small party and where, by the way, the PSC wins. It will be something else; can it be because of its repeated petty strategy of seeking votes outside Catalonia with this? Can it be because of its umpteenth complex with the far right? 'Cause if he grazes like a duck, if he walks like a duck, if he behaves like a duck, he's a duck. [[Applauds]] They state in the motion that this dialogue does not fall under the Constitution, the Constitution, which was the result of the dialogue in its maximum expression, which gathered in this room, which gathered in these seats, that some trample and degrade with their insults, opposite people to give the word a chance. We already know that their predecessors were not the most enthusiastic when it came to approving, but, man, hide a little bit. Dialogue, speaking, within the Constitution, what is the problem? What's bothering you? By the way, they're also talking about the statue. Welcome, they have gone from collecting signatures against their approval to say - I read - to recognize it as a framework of coexistence. Welcome, even if it's late. I don't find anything if I tell them I'm not an independentist. I am Catalan, unfortunately little or nothing for some in Catalonia. I'm too much for others, too. But I tell you that being Catalan doesn't make you independent, as being Spanish doesn't make you a right-wing person. But for someone who feels Catalan and Spanish like me, there is no problem in working together for a better coexistence, for a better accommodation. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are politicians. If we don't do politics, what do we do? What do we pass on to citizens? What message is there: to win the encounter, to win the difference, the hatred, the conflict, that there is no solution? Or worse: that the solution is worse than the problem? Is that what you're proposing? Or, Mr. Bal, we do as you do: we win, we don't do anything and we leave? Well, look, no, we're here to work. I won't tell you it's easy, because it's not easy or there's a magic wand that fixes problems, because there isn't. Dialogue is usually a long way, but it is always the safest. I also say to you: I am not going to blame others, the adversary, the one who does not vote, the one who votes badly, that I leave for others. But with this motion you stand on the side of those who want dialogue to fail, because, ladies and gentlemen, wanting dialogue to fail is both to deny dialogue, to expel it from the Constitution, expressing it in a grotesque way, as those who are going to boycott, for example, by appointing members outside the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing left but to vote against your motion with both hands. There are many reasons and I would say one: look, we do it for you too, because the day will come, if it has not already arrived, that you recognize that a strong society is the one that recognizes their differences, and instead of confronting them, it works to overcome them. Yes, within the Constitution, even if it weighs them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u160	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the laundering of hate crimes. [[File number 173/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u161	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the trivialization of hate crimes. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u162	Thank you. [[The lady]] 'ETA, kill them.' 'Ortega Lara, back to the zulo'. Fascists to pieces. 'What a shame not to have a bullet loader to empty it on it'; threat in the presence of a five-year-old girl. In our informational tents: 'Disassemble all this I come and cut your neck'. 'This time you guys go to the curbs.' Fascists never again. Groups that are called feminists and extreme left represent an image of Santiago Abascal hanged and with a shot in the head. The CDRs unconsciously left a VOX sympathizer, assaulted a young man for carrying a pole with the Spanish flag to the fascist cry and a 55-year-old woman was punched. This motion describes many cases of hatred and narrates it would medeja without time, so I will summarize it: they spit us out at the news tables; they throw stones at us in the acts; VOX sympathizers are threatened, insulted and assaulted; they hold us responsible for a murder of a young man in A Coruña; they do not signify for an alleged homophobic aggression; they frame us in neo-Nazi marches in Chueca that seem organized by the cloacas of the Socialist Party to hide the act in Mondragon and cover the misery of a government that surrenders to ETA. Vandal attacks, assaults, paints and death threats. Deputies, councillors, volunteers, affiliates and sympathizers, all pointed out, incredulous or threatened by hate speech against VOX. We have seen it in the last election campaigns and when this government and its partners use hate speech against VOX in connection with deplorable homophobic attacks in Spain. The Government, which is not interested in victims or aggressors, makes political use of it and that is miserable, very miserable. There were slanders against VOX related to Samuel's murder. His father asked them not to use him politically; however, without mercy, they ignored that request and avoided the pain of a father who lost his son in such horrible circumstances. [[Applauds]] It is intolerable, as is a Minister of the Interior who misuses his public functions, who lies, who gives a speech of hatred and violence against VOX based on slander and insults and who abandons the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Armed Forces and the prison officials, who were at the door of this Congress today. We demand the immediate cessation of that minister who abandons the Spanish. [[Applauds]] We have media activists, politicians who point out and a marquis of Galapagar who even warned of an anti-fascist alert when we broke into the Parliament of Andalusia with great force and whose escort was in the act of Vallecas throwing stones at children and women who were in that act. Where were the feminists on magazine cover? We have Rufians who show silence at the expression of the desire to kill us and those who exert hatred against our formation are those who are installed in it. [[Applauds]] All you have to do is see the tone they're going at us with. Many of your ladies and gentlemen use a better tone with ETA and separatists, a better tone than with a formation that is constitutionalist. They do not like us, but that does not justify their hatred and, frankly, we have not come to like them; we have come to point out what has been silenced so far. We have come to point out the political class of armchair and carpet, kneeling to their partisan interests, to end the imposition of an agenda that confronts men and women, worker and entrepreneur, heterosexual and homosexual, young and old, to stop their ideological roller, to express that the rose does not cossify and that I love to be a woman and I will defend women and men, because in that struggle we are all. [[Applauds]] And we will fight for our young people, so that they do not have to emigrate because they have no work here; for our grandparents and sick people, so that they have the necessary care and in the face of their hatred disguised as a right that wants to kill them; for life; for the humble families who live in neighborhoods, where illegal immigrants attack their children and their women; for employment; for peace and prosperity. Do they accuse us of hatred? Hate is the one that resounds many of those who are sitting here today. They hate us because we represent change, because we are the hope, because we take away their faces, so I tell them one thing: We are the party of Ortega Lara, we are the party of that man who resisted 532 days in a zulo, the longest kidnapping in the history of the terrorist band ETA. [[applause]] We are the resistance and we are more and more and we feel a great force before their lies and their whoredoms, which we are dismantling one by one in the streets, in the institutions, in the courts. They know that we will because we are effective, because the courts give us reason and because the truth prevails and will prevail. Outside this House, those of VOX physical and verbal aggressions and, within this House, insults at the silence of members of the Socialist Bureau in this Congress, who do not fairly apply the Rules of Procedure. Why do they keep their arms crossed when they call us fascists, criminals, racists or murderers? Why does Article 71.3 of the Rules of Procedure of this House not apply when value judgments are rendered that violate the dignity of a parliamentary group? Why doesn't 103 apply when the representative of Esquerra yelled at us and shouted aggressively next to our seat? Let them be clear: VOX condemns all kinds of violence, VOX does not exert violence, VOX suffers violence. And we will continue to defend the Spanish families, and we will continue to defend the interests of our nation. Abandon your hate speech because we're not going to be silenced. And I promise you on behalf of this parliamentary group: truth, beauty and freedom...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u163	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u164	...will prevail because that's Spain. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u165	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Giménez Giménez is speaking first of all in the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u166	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more day we speak again in this House of Hate. The truth is that I am saying this with regret, because we are talking about hatred, about stigmatisation of minorities, about political violence, about the heightening of terrorism, and the first thing I want to do is a reference to that reflection that the victims of hate crimes deserve, but the victims of hate crimes that we must contemplate, which are those that have historically belonged to vulnerable groups and that are recognised by the European, the international, level, because there is a deterioration when we talk about hate crimes. We need to read the Penal Code, we need to read the European recommendations, and then we need to determine, when there are certain violent manifestations, what hate is and what is not. Because when we talk about gypsies, migrants, LGBTI people, women, the disabled, we have to see the trajectory and what history, the aberration that history has manifested to us. And I think that on many occasions this is forgotten, and it is forgotten because, unfortunately, the issue of hate crimes is being instrumentalized and used. Clearly, Citizens we are a party that we are against seeing how last week there was a demonstration of neo-Nazis who were camped around the center of Madrid threatening LGBT people. Likewise, we are against the authorities authorizing a tribute to an ETA bloodthirsty killer who has thirty-nine victims in his files, in his established macabre record. What's going on is serious. It is serious because the Democrats are not united against the crime of hate, against the discourse of hate, because, really, what is emerging are sectarianism weeds: from the buts, from the reparations in condemnations, from banalization, from different measuring rods, even from negationism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you complain in your motion that other parties have linked you to the recent homophobic attacks. I have seen one of your representatives oppose that, but I have also seen Mr Abascal - in relation to the demonstration of neo-Nazis - taking away a bit of importance, saying, to dilute his conviction, that it may be something he was prepared to do. Don't you realize that by opening the door to suspicion, conspiracy, slander, the crime of hatred is analysed, the offender is laundered and the victims' suffering is questioned? There's no ideology in hate, no nuances. In Spain there are democrats and monsters, victims and aggressors, and whoever wants to rationalize, theorize or see conspiracy beyond this violence, is with the aggressors. And we have to go back to that beginning: what is the origin, what are the people who have to be really protected, and they are these kinds of groups that are in situations of inferiority. History has shown us. I've lived it in flesh. I really am nervous about this situation, because it cannot be talked about this way and it cannot be that you are telling me to talk about hate crimes when you also point out; you have just done it in the rostrum with illegal migrants, who are all day blaming questions and sending irresponsible messages. I agree that the violence that any member of this House receives, the violence that you are receiving, I am against the tributes to the ages, I am in favour of protecting Roma victims, migrants, LGBTI, women, disabled, all those groups that are discriminated against, because from Citizens we defend equality with two hands, ladies and gentlemen, without leaving anyone behind. We are in the manifestation of the Pride defending freedom, and we are also in those manifestations that go against tributes to the ages, because we defend it, because equality and freedom are not defended piecemeally, are defended as a whole, and that is what needs to be done. I understand that if you have been victims of hate crime, violence, be responsible for your demonstrations, what cannot be done is that, on the one hand, you are presenting us with a biased motion, because it is only for you to be recognized as victims, and that you do not recognize the rest of the violence and also point out to certain populations. Because we have seen it, you consider LGBT people mentally ill, we have seen it in more than one of your statements, because we have seen that mena stigmatize and point them out. That is why our amendment goes in the direction of somehow expanding what hate crimes are and addressing them in a complete, appropriate way.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u167	You have to finish, Mrs. Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u168	And this is what we ask in our amendment, that there be comprehensiveness and respect for the victims of hate crimes in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u169	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. From here I want to show our full support for the prison officials who are demonstrating at the gates of Congress. We're not gonna let the government criminalize them. Moreover, they are the ultimate guarantors of our security and the Government must consider them agents of authority already and improve their socio-occupational conditions, which do not have to return to Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want hate crimes to be used politically. A week ago the PSOE did and today you repeat it, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Stop using hate on both sides of the bench as political ammunition, we fight hate together, all kinds of hate, and not the one that each of you brings to Congress every week. Let us work together so that no one, by loving anyone who wants and likes, is assaulted; that no one, by his political ideology, votes who votes, is assaulted; that no one, by his religion, can be attacked within a church, as did the members of Podemos in Madrid; that no one, by his color or race, so that no immigrant, by the fact that he is, be hated. Most Spaniards feel part of a tolerant, open and respectful society, a Spain in freedom, and the Spaniards are not energetic that you try to label as haters; fortunately, those who hate are few and are human scum. The irresponsible thing is to see this government cut political ground with its double standard according to the political affiliation of the victim or the aggressor. Is it not a hate crime to pay tribute to terrorists who have no other merit than the car bomb or the shooting in the back of the head? Is it not a hate crime to pay tribute to a bloodthirsty parot with thirty-nine murders? Is it not a hate crime to humiliate and despise the victims of terrorism? Isn't assaulting my P.P. partners in the Basque Country a hate crime? Is leaving without vaccinating police and civilian guards in Catalonia because it is not a hate crime? Isn't the harassment of those same cops in Catalonia, them and their families, hate? Is it not hate that Mr. Pablo Iglesias calls in an article to fight the PP and VOX with a gun? You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, only see the hatreds that interest you. They overtook Mr Marlaska when he made a media pilgrimage accusing the Madriders and the opposition of homophobes. The goal is to attack Madrid. The hate tables set them up, gentlemen of the government, only when they are interested, and only condemn crimes when they are concerned. Why do they not make demonstrations in Catalonia, which, according to the data provided by Mr Marlaska, is the community that leads the ranking of hate crimes for sexual orientation? Why do they not manifest themselves in the Basque Country and Navarre, which, according to the same data, are the communities with the most hate crimes? Why do they not set up hate crime tables on the grounds of racism, which is the first cause of hatred in Spain, or on ideological grounds, which is the second cause of hate crime? Today we again call for Mr Marlaska to cease. He went from being a judge who kept telling the truth to scorning that truth as a politician and instigating any reason to destroy and delegitimize the opposition. He even invented a report to assault Citizens on Gay Pride Day, and a sexist crime was invented to blame the opposition of the sexist. A minister of the Interior, chief of the police and the Civil Guard, who accuses without evidence and without waiting for a police investigation. A minister whose restraint and prudence is expected while the police investigate, and not that he is a ridiculous activist to stone the opposition, as he was in the case of bullets in the Madrid campaign. A minister who keeps quiet for what he wants. I knew that Podemos' paid masons had attacked the police and VOX in Vallecas and said nothing. I knew that the police were suspicious of the testimony of the alleged victim of Malasaña and said nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to allow you to hand over Democratic cards, because you are the least democratic when you condemn only certain crimes. If not, let them tell the girls who are victims of sexual abuse in the Balearic Islands and Valencia, who, because they are protected by socialist governments and by Mrs Oltra, do not defend them and are complicit in not being investigated and not knowing the truth. We defend the dignity of these minors against the indignity of the Government by not condemning such serious crimes, because they are minors, they are girls. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they are girls and deserve the full condemnation of these acts. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's over. I invite you to combat all hate crimes; all hate crimes. I invite you to defend freedom, to work for a firm and healthy democracy, for a tolerant and egalitarian society with all people, not for an a la carte society like that which you, on both sides of the Chamber, bring us every week. He ended with a phrase from Pérez Reverte: 'Only idiots believe that the ones on their side are the good ones'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u171	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The very well-worked explanatory statement accompanying this motion, which has been defended by Mrs Rueda, is sufficiently extensive and eloquent to support the various sections which seek to combat the trivialization of hate crimes, a subject in which some members of the Executive are consummated experts. [[Applauds]] This is particularly true of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, who accumulates a long history of episodes to try to criminalize the opposition by applying it in irresponsible events and actions, such as last Saturday's neo-Nazi coven in the Chueca area, a demonstration that was randomly authorized and allowed by the Government Delegation in Madrid. The Government also blamed the opposition's speeches and interventions for assaulting a homosexual person, and when the police investigation found that such assault never existed, the Government maintained its strategism without even outlining a few words of apology. On the contrary, almost every day the political opposition is immersed in a growing spiral of official manipulation, to which is not alien the task of zapa of some media and digital activists to demolish those who oppose Sánchez and his parliamentary partners. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, some of these partners are depositaries of the worst signs of hatred in Spain in the last half century, with death, kidnapping, extortion and blackmail. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the PSOE, you are setting the worst example for democratic values when you rely on organizations that keep on the flame that provokes aggressions such as those that last weekend received in the Basque Country the victims of terrorism and those who from the People's Party and VOX supported them. In short, Pedro Sánchez banalizes hate crimes to camouflage that in 2018 and 2019 reached the Presidency of the Government with support that deny Spain and, starting with the European Union, confuse Democrats around the world. I shall support this motion with my vote. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u174	Thank you very much, President. I will speak briefly because I am going to go round and round to the issue. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you show day and day also, ambiguously or explicitly, according to the forum and circumstance, your exclusive character, excite the spirits against immigration, singularly if you are unaccompanied minors, with negationist campaigns of gender-based aggression, gender-based violence, awakening the exclusive cultural singularism and, of course, then others come who already have justification for their xenophobic actions, for their homophobic actions and for their exclusive actions. But the thing does not end here, because now they come to tell us, so that we feel, that the real and silent victims of hate speech are you, that the Ministry of the Interior fabricate false evidence against you, that the weekend demonstration in Chueca was instigated and organized from the cloacas of the PSOE - which stinked of cloacas of the PSOE - and that the Minister of Justice, by the interposed hand of the Attorney General, conspires to press the button of its illegalization. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up because I was already telling them it was going to be brief. I share and subscribe to the words of the Minister of Justice in the debate on the question that this motion brings about when, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, he described his speech as an exercise in political cynicism - I summarize it in another way: they throw the stone and then they want us not to see his hand - and, also, when he describes his complaint that they are victims of a persecution plot organized by the Government as a dangerous delusion for distorting the facts and their assessment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, please stop coming to this House every afternoon as Cagancho went to Almagro, riding the chicken. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u176	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your speech in Galician]] This is a very appropriate expression for this case, because it would be to laugh if it weren't sad to see and hear VOX talking about hate crimes and banalization of hate crimes. It would be to laugh if it were not dramatic for the painful consequences they cause and, in addition, pretending to be victims. [[Pronounce words in Galician]] The question is simple, ladies and gentlemen of VOX: you are hate; hate is you. So if they want to end hate crimes and hate speech, they should start by dissolving and delivering their vast arsenal of fanaticism, supremacism, class privileges, lies and bubbles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u178	Good afternoon. I began by listening to your speech and the truth is that if I closed my eyes, I had the feeling of listening to Mr. Pablo Iglesias, because you started talking about the deputies of the carpets, that we are going to remove the faces, that we are the party of the humble people... I have seen the same populism that we criticize Podemos in his words. And I tell you with sadness, because I believe that this populism does not bring anything to politics, nothing. Aren't you guys stepping on carpets? Is it that they're not in armchairs, just like everyone else is, too? That is, the work of Members is done in this environment and there are carpets and armchairs, and this cannot in any way constitute the flag of political action, honestly. I think it is interesting in the motion that you also propose to look at the footer. It is curious to look at the bibliographical sources, because there are newspapers that do not even appear, only those of a certain ideological line; I will not tell you to read El País or other newspapers, but it seems that this editorial line does not give them any coverage in all this that happens to them; only the ABC, El Mundo, the newspapers of the press that give them the court. Beyond this issue, I would like to refer to the substance of the subject: hate crimes; crimes for which, with a criminal offence, actions are pursued against a victim, against a local or against an objective that is part of a specific social group. It says: racial, ethnic, language, religion, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation. It doesn't say anywhere: about a concrete political party. You are becoming victims of what precisely with your speeches you pursue most forcefully. The text of the motion in various paragraphs, even, calls for the Minister's reprobation, which has been raised here several times, and the text of the motion serves to put his wishes everywhere. I am particularly grateful for the second paragraph, when speaking of article 23 of the Constitution, for any action or omission that would violate the principle of article 23, which refers to the right of citizens to participate in direct public affairs or through freely elected representatives in elections. Well, well, he's talking about what he's also done with VOX in relation to previous elections. For example, the action of the State or the action in the trial of the trial by VOX in relation to democratically elected representatives, do you not believe that it is an action to be taken into account and that it could be in this paragraph to send a candidate for the investiture to prison and to participate, I might say, in this conspiracy? Honestly, I think you're trying to turn around what you've been sowing for so long and you're trying to become victims of those who've always been executioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u179	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u180	I've thought for a while what to say and I was going to do a little bit of the usual, which is get into the confrontation with VOX, with the ultra-right. It's very tasty, isn't it? When VOX talks about hate you have to listen to him, because it is always good to listen to the experts, and although his spokesman - I am, the truth, quite affected - has gotten into my name, something that in life had never happened to me, I have decided that not today, we and we are not going to answer VOX, and I invite the rest of parliamentarians to do - let's do - this reflection. [[laughs]] Yesterday something very beautiful happened in this House, yesterday this Congress made harassment in front of abortion clinics a crime. How many people think he found out, how many people think he just saw the five seconds of the jail that the VOX deputy set up and how many people think he's read headlines in which we all get caught? How bad is politics! How bad is Congress! So I invite you to reflect on the following: that we call on your voters, especially your working class voters, to the mice who vote for cats. How is it possible that there are so many working-class people who vote for these people, who vote for the far right? The answer is terrible, because there are a lot of people willing to vote against their interests thinking they're voting for their principles, and it's terrible. I think we have to address the VOX working class voter - because they do it; they do it - and tell him clearly that they are gazelles throwing, clapping and voting lions and that it is a terrible anomaly. VOX has recently voted against the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage; voted against the increase in aid to ERTE; voted against the ban on layoffs during layoffs; voted against the increase in pensions; voted against the preservation of the planet; voted against any policy to defend the LGTB collective; voted against aid, any aid, against gender-based violence. VOX, every day, every week, VOX working class voter, vote against you, against your gender, against your class; against you. VOX are not yours, VOX does not represent early Spain, VOX represents the exploiters of early Spain. VOX working class voter, if you vote for VOX, you're voting for the boss who exploits you, the judge who condemns you, the journalist who lies to you or the homophobic who hits you. They're not yours. To be patriot is not to carry the biggest flag on the mask; to be patriot is, for example, to try to end the electric scam on the citizenry, and these people vote against. They're not yours. I ask you to do this reflection, your noise and your bile do not cover the few good things that happen here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u182	Thank you, President. This week we have seen the true face of the far right. Yesterday, a deputy from VOX insulted a deputy by calling her a witch; half an hour later Congresswoman Olona was aggressively facing a journalist who was only doing her job, and a few days earlier Mr Abascal asked President Pedro Sánchez to slap the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr Pere Aragonès. I don't know what more evidence you want that your words incite physical aggression and incite hatred. I am not going to devote this intervention to explaining what VOX is, because we already know its modus operandi. You, as I told you once, are the right cheese. They come here to victimize themselves to hide the real problem, which is the increase in homophobic, racist and sexist attacks. I'm not going to give you what you want, I'm not going to make you a house. I'm going to talk to you about the real victims of this situation, I'm going to talk to you about Samuel Luiz, the young man killed in A Coruña while yelling at him as a piece of shit; about Miguel, the boy from Velada, in Toledo, who was beaten with kicks and punches for being gay; about Axel, a young trans of twenty-one years assaulted on Blasco Ibáñez Avenue in Valencia, who acknowledged that he was left in shock after the aggression; about Jesús Vázquez, a professor from Tenerife who explained that he was insulted and humiliated and that he was beaten in his village in Badajoz; about the trans woman of sixty-four years who received three punches in the face in the old shell of Vitoria; of Alexandru, a young man assaulted in Amorebieta whose family has been informed that he is not going to recover from the coma after that tremendous aggression. And we could continue this way until the 610 complaints that only this year the Ministry of the Interior has linked to hate crimes. They and they are the real victims of this situation, as we are all LGBT people who before giving a kiss to our partner on the street we have to look right and left to see if we are in a safe area, that we cover our hands in the cinema under a jacket in order to be able to give our partner a hand, that we have to bear reproaching glances only for showing gestures of love and affection, and what the citizenry is waiting for is the unity of democratic forces to combat these hate speech. [[applause]] That is why I must admit, Mrs Vázquez, that what concerns me here is the attitude of the People's Party. I ask you to convey to Mr Almeida, Mrs Ayuso and Mr Casado the following words: we must not be naive, the anti-democratic forces and radical authoritarian movements are waiting for an economic crisis to use it politically. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco makes negative signs]] Do you know who said that, Mrs. Vazquez? It was not said by a dangerous red, communist and revolutionary, Mrs. Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, said. She'll never deal with the far right, and she said so. Those words of Merkel should embarrass the Spanish right, they should embarrass the People's Party. You, instead of helping us fight those hate speech of the far right, do what you do is whitewash them and agree governments with them. Your alliance with the far right, Mrs Vázquez, is very dangerous for Spain. Learn, for once, from the European democratic right. I ended up, Madam President, because I said I was not going to listen to the claim made by the ultra-right today. I'm just going to address them now, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros said two weeks ago in a press conference that will denounce anyone who links his party with hate crimes. I suppose, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that you keep your word here today. Well, look, we're not afraid of him. Here's my ID, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Show your DNI]] Start by denouncing me, start by denouncing me, because yes, their speeches are macho, racist and homophobic, and they have a direct responsibility in increasing these attacks. [[applause]] And I'm telling you more, they won't stop us from continuing to denounce them, nor will they stop our right to love whomever we want and to sleep with whomever we want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Tizón Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u184	Thank you, President. If they attack me, hate crime; if they attack others, freedom of expression. That's the VOX dogma. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about hate crime, we are talking about a danger crime whose message reflects a hate speech about specific groups of people. A crime whose doctrinal interpretation by the Constitutional Court has evolved from the Violeta Friedman case, through the Europe Bookstore case to the current article 510 of the Criminal Code. Note, while the definition of homicide occupies two lines in the Criminal Code, to describe a hate crime is necessary at least two pages; a tremendous complexity to address it with its ambiguous messages. It is not surprising that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, who permanently point out the vulnerable, whom you consider different, come today to ask this government to implement measures to prevent the trivialization of hate crimes, while insulting a fellow member of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] Who are you trying to fool? In the first half of 2021, there were 748 complaints of hate crimes, an increase of 9.3% over the same period prior to the pandemic. The data is there, as much as they try to whiten them. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe ourselves to Article 9.2 of the Constitution and I quote: it is for the public authorities to promote the conditions for freedom and equality to be real and effective, and to remove obstacles that prevent or hinder their fullness. We owe it to the defence of substantial equality. And what do you do for it, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? They make siege policy, reprimand ministers for sport, point to the weakest, blaming them, and simplify the discourse to draw political revenue. You are patriots, yes, but patriots of hatred, capable of putting on the ground the truth of the social realities that have cost lives, suffering and centuries to become admitted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u185	One second, Mrs. Tizón. Mr. VOX MP, can you put on the mask, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u186	Tell me what you bring to Spanish society, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. I will tell you: you contribute to the conflict; conflict we see daily in your manifestations. And I quote: Fortunately, patriotic movements are emerging in front of oligarchies that intend to turn entire nations into multicultural terns, said by Mr Abascal; in Spain we have gone from beating homosexuals to imposing their law, said by Mr Espinosa De los Monteros; as a woman, Spanish, mother, sister and politician said that violence has no gender, said by Mrs Olona. Thirty-five women killed in what's going on in the year; perhaps they seem few. [[Applauds]] George Bernard Shaw said hate is the revenge of an intimidated coward. Tell me: What intimidates you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? Diversity? It is sad that you defend Spain, a dangerous speech unfortunately taken by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your echo of cynicism is heard from here as they spread it across Europe in abstention. [[Applauds]] Allow me a small reference to the events of Chueca. Look, the rule of law is working, this government's reaction has been immediate and in this they will not teach us lessons. You, who call yourselves constitutionalists, are wrapped in the flag of hatred, but there you will always have us in front of you. From the Socialist Party we do not want anyone to have to face their life plan from fear. That's why we condemn all hate crimes without distinction, that's why we pass equality laws, that's why we seek coordination in awareness campaigns, dialogue, respect and coexistence. These are and will be our values in the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, I urge you to stop pretending to be victims when you are executioners. Abandon your phobia to your neighbor. Stop trivializing and instrumentalizing hatred. Do me that favor for democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u187	Mrs Rueda Perelló, does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u188	We are working on a transactional with the People's Group and with Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-22-CD210922.u189	The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was four and ten minutes in the afternoon.
