ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the plenary session this week on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. I would like to remind the 1118 women killed by gender-based violence since they began accounting in 2003, as well as the direct or indirect victims of this scourge, especially boys and girls. Violence against women constitutes a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms and prevents the full development of a social and democratic rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the vote on the remaining amendments from section 29 included in the Commission's opinion on the draft State General Budgets Act for 2022,the announcements that the following amendments have been adopted: to section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, compromise amendments 67 to 69; to section 37, Other financial relations with territorial authorities,transactional amendments 70 and 71; and to entities in the public administrative, business and foundational sector,transactional amendments 72 to 74. The result of all the votes for these amendments will be published on the House's website in accordance with the usual procedure and will also be appended to the minutes of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. today the opinions of the various parts of the draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2022, as well as the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law, will be able to be telematically voted on. The result of the votes will be announced at the end of the debate on the last item. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2022. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u3	We continue with the joint debate on sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09. Sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09 together Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today I suppose they will approve the budgets with billions in them; I imagine they will give those applause that they usually give when the president announces the end of the vote. And, among other things, it will have to be asked whether these billions in the budget guarantee that a Spaniard can study in Spanish within Spain. And it turns out they don't guarantee it. So we are approving billions and it turns out that a Spanish person is not going to be able to study in Spanish within Spain because you have agreed the budgets so that that cannot be the case. And that's how we started, yeah, yeah. [[Applauds]] And when we come out here to talk about budgets, they say, you always talk about budgets when you talk about our pacts with Bildu! Have you agreed to the budget with Bildu? Yes or no? Yeah. So, if you have agreed the budget with Bildu and we are in the budget debate, how are we not going to talk about the pacts with Bildu? We'll have to talk about the pacts with Bildu. So, what have they done in exchange for the budget to deal with Bildu? You yourselves, when you are in the rostrum, say: if we have not adopted almost any amendments! If they approve them because they do!Of course, they have not adopted almost any amendments; therefore, what they are doing is out of the budget, it is extra-budgetary. They already said what their condition was to support the budgets: the famous prisoners for budgets and other issues such as, for example, continuing to advance in that chimera that they call Euskal Herria, which is an entelequia, and that, as we are directly affected by the Navarras, they will understand that we have to talk - of course we have to talk! - about that pact with Bildu, because, obviously, in that entelequia that they call Euskal Herria they make up the Foral Community of Navarra, which, as we said the other day, by its own right forms part of the unity of Spain. So, of course we're going to talk about the pact! And they say: the important thing is not who he deals with, but for what. Look, the one who said that with Bildu not - fifteen times not, a hundred times not, twenty times not, how many times does he want me to tell him not - was Sanchez when he wasn't president. Of course, then we found out that Sánchez before he was president was Sánchez and after he was president was President Sánchez; therefore, he could say one thing and the opposite without any problem. [[Applauds]] Next question. But then you make a deal with Bildu, and what about a deal with Bildu? But does Bildu condemn ETA terrorism? Yes or no? Oh, don't condemn him! But does Bildu like the existence of ETA? Yes or no? Oh, that's good for you! So, what's changed here? They come out here and tell us, "No, but what you can't talk about is the victims of terrorism. You can't talk about that anymore. So we can't talk about the victims of terrorism, but the President of the Government can give Bildu his condolences because an Etrara has died. That can be done. And besides, you can honor the killers of those we can't talk about. You've changed a lot, haven't you? But a lot, a lot! Well, look, we're gonna keep talking about the victims of terrorism whenever we want. [[Applauds]] I say this clearly so that no one will be offended: if those families of those killed by the Socialist Party agree that you agree with those who applauded their murders, I will not enter, but those who killed us ours, who killed many civilian, military, peasant guards, people who passed by the street and who have told us to speak on their behalf, of course we will talk!, times when it is necessary! [[Applauds]] And as long as this ignominy continues much more. And we'll say it many times. And then let the socialist spokesman come out and tell me: you always talk about the same thing. Of course, because someone will have to talk about it! Because they won't think we're gonna run the curtain like nothing's happened here. It's just that a lot has happened here. And, as I told you yesterday, if they agree that they have a political objective to weaken Spain, it will logically have to be denounced. And with that I don't know for the country. If the partners have chosen you! And they chose them because they wanted to. And they have the right to choose them, but just as they have the right to choose them, we have the right to denounce them. And it is clear that a budget agreed with the Republican Left of Catalonia and with Euskal Herria Bildu cannot be a good budget for Spain ever. It can never be! Because they are in their political objective, and their political objective is to weaken Spain. We've seen it and we're seeing it. And let's see what they're doing. We have an example today in Catalonia with Spanish - Spanish - Spanish teaching in Catalonia, which is treating Catalans who are not nationalists as second-class citizens and you are allowing it. And we are seeing it, of course, with that entelequia called Euskal Herria. So, we'll talk and say whatever we want. We are not yet in Cuba or Venezuela, although you would like to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u5	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We face the final straight of the budgets, these budgets that, in fact, today will be approved with the worst possible partners, those partners that do not believe in 47 million Spaniards, but only believe in their territorial privileges. And it is up to us to talk about the high institutions of the State, sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09, among which we find ourselves with the budgets of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, those institutions which you and you divide; you, who should have some part in these budgets to increase the credibility of the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors and put in these institutions your friends; you, who should have included in the budgets some part for the citizens to trust, believe in the highest institutions of the State if you had not distributed these institutions, if you had not distributed the State not using the criteria of merit and capacity, but using only your friends in the institutions so that tomorrow, when a major issue arises, these friends will return the favor; return the favor to them in the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman or the Court of Auditors. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] In the meantime, however, during these days, during these four long days, we have seen here that pantomime, that theatre of how it was angry with you and you with you and yet right now surely Mr. García Aegean and Mr. Bolaños are in a dark, discreet quartet, where no one sees you, dividing the General Council of the Judiciary, as we are listening in the news. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist and Popular parliamentary groups in the Congress]] And to sit and talk about young people, to talk about pensions, to talk about housing, to talk about birth, of depopulation, to talk about the future reform of the 21st century of the labour market, to talk about science and innovation or digitalization, to talk about business development, for that they do not sit, but to share the chairs they do sit. Because they have no policy for any of these issues. Or maybe you do, maybe I'm being too hard on you; I think young people's politics you do; young people get a very clear message: don't study, that's no use at all, don't try, don't find a job, don't study oppositions, don't be fools, take out the Socialist Party or the People's Party's Carnet, join New Generations or Socialist Youths, do a lot of the ball, and tomorrow you'll have a great job in public institutions. [[Applauds]] This is a magnificent youth policy for our country and, man, perfectly coherent, in addition to the possibility of passing the course without approving subjects; if it is that this of coherence at least will not be able to be discussed to you. The General Council of the Judiciary is in fact being divided and they have called for the merit competition of the Spanish Data Protection Agency; in the end, they will be given to the people who already know that they are going to give it to them, but at least I would like to repeat from here the appeal to the Spanish citizens who are experts in data protection so that, please, they can present themselves to this merit competition, to see if the two persons appointed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party are ashamed to obtain these posts as president and deputy of the Spanish Data Protection Agency. You have an allergy - both - to merit and ability; you only know of enchufism and friendliness. And what do you tell me now with the General Council of the Judiciary? To me the news seems frankly hilarious; if it weren't sad, it would be funny: we have an agreement to reach an agreement. That is, that they are already sharing it, that they are already sharing the pie: we have an agreement so that in these posts of the General Council of the Judiciary you name whom you want and I name whoever you want, too. We have an agreement because, man, friends are for what they are, we're not going to choose the wise and independents who will then make us cusqui. No, friends are for what they are for; now to name you and, when I need you, I'll take the phone to ask you to return the favor. You also have an agreement that jurists of recognized competence should remain in university, remain in their offices or remain in the courts and tribunals with those few means they have and those decent salaries they pay, but not in the high institutions of the State. There is agreement, in short, to divide the state between you and yourself. None of you have the least shame. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u8	Good morning, dear President, dear companions and companions. Today it is up to us to analyse, within the General Budgets of the State, the items corresponding to the Royal House, the General Courts, the High Magistrates and the High Institutions of the State. What can be said about it? It can be said that we have an important budget reinforcement and in line with what are Keynesian budgets, of a countercyclical nature, of an expansive nature, covering all the rest of the budgets. But in particular, on these matters, what can we say? That there is a strong budgetary increase in all items except for the freezing section of the Royal House. Is it true that this freezing implies what the three right-wings here have said in unison that we have an austere Royal House? It's fake, it's radically fake. Apart from the 8 million that the royal family receives directly from the budgets in this particular item, 8 million of free disposition according to article 65 of the Constitution, which the king decides how to distribute them, the amount that he receives, that he enjoys and that he benefits from the Royal House is brutal; it is brutal and, moreover, they do not even come to know, even though we are in a democratic state, all its contours. But we know that there are very important items within the budget of the Presidency, of the Interior, of the Defence, of the Culture, huge items, including the fundless drawer of National Heritage, which has more than one hundred employees, let us say, in the service of the Royal House, including the camera aids that are in Abu Dhabi, including compensation to the crew of the yacht Fortune and including a huge amount of items from which the Royal House benefits. Faced with this, the high institutions have had a significant strengthening, with an increase of between 6% and 8% in the budgets for the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, the General Council of the Judiciary. All the state's high-ranking judiciary have a very important budgetary reinforcement, in addition to the reinforcement that they had already had last year, for example, the Court of Auditors, with increases of more than 15%. Thus, the opposition is lacking in the truth, there is an express will on the part of this Government to significantly strengthen the high-ranking judiciary of the State. And the three right-wing parties are missing the truth when they are saying that we have a very expensive government that we cannot afford. False, radically false. This is radically false; that is, against the direct king's 8 million, apart from everything else, the President of the Government of Spain receives EUR 86 000. It is exactly a quarter of what his counterpart perceives in Germany; it is half of what the President of the Constitutional Court perceives; it is much less than what the majority of the members of the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Economic and Social Council, the Spanish Broadcasting Council and the hundreds and hundreds of authorities, who earn much more than the President of the Government, who has been elected and who expresses the majority will of the citizenry. Then it's radically false what they say. I, who am Basque, know that in my country not only the lehendakari, but all the councillors, all the members of the Courts of Accounts, of the Ombudsman, all the deputies - not only the generals, the outlaws - and all the mayors of all the capitals earn more than the president of the Government of Spain. Then it's a lie. They lie, and they lie because they know it, when they say that they are unusual wages or that the president and government ministers are overpaid. There are many mayors in Spain, who are not even from provincial capitals, who earn more. Then this is radically false, it's another falsehood. But in any case, these budgets provide, let us say, for an important strengthening of the state's high judiciary, with budgetary allocations and with very important salaries. In the case, for example, of the President of the Constitutional Court, twice as much as the President of the Government earns. But, simply, the regeneration of these high bodies, having high judges of the state worthy, is something that cannot be done only with the goodwill of the Government and with budgetary allocation. Here we must call things by their name, apart from the fact that the three right-wings are more happy, let's say, that they earn less the highest elected representative of national sovereignty; that they earn less, much less, not only all those instances that I have mentioned, but much less than the last Iberdrola record, not to protect national sovereignty but to challenge it, that it does suit the people who understand national sovereignty in a certain way, and I am looking at you. [[Applauds]] But apart from that, those high institutions of the State, those high magistrates - whom we have endowed very appropriately and in a very dignified way - cannot be revalued, and there is a responsibility. And here I am not addressing the entire opposition and the three right-wing, but only a party that has a very serious responsibility, because the problem of the deterioration of the high institutions of the state has a name and a name, and it is called the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And I'm very sorry because I don't like being too hard on the opposition, but if there's one thing you can't tolerate - I never like using high-sounding words as a coup d'état - it's that a party is looking for a lot of excuses to avoid renewal, to fulfill the constitutional mandate and the mandate of the organic laws of renewal of the state's high institutions. This is intolerable; it is intolerable. The first excuse that you made was that you would not negotiate if the United Nations Group participated in the negotiation. We can, the second of the excuses was that you would not negotiate if there were pardons and the third that you would not negotiate until you were guaranteed that the form of choice in the law would be changed. When you look for a lot of excuses for a reason, it's that you don't want to do it. You do not want and, as Judges and Judges for Democracy have said, we have had more than a thousand days, almost three years, of abduction of the judiciary and of non-compliance with the constitutional and legal mandate to renew the high judiciary. [[Applauds]] This is a shame, gentlemen; it is a shame. It is intolerable, absolutely intolerable for you to participate in this game. And don't look for more excuses, don't look for more excuses because they don't exist, because you have an obligation to comply with the Constitution and to comply with organic laws. What can't be allowed, and this is absolutely intolerable in democracy, is that someone says: you guarantee me that you will change the form of choice that establishes the laws - laws that I made and that I applied for forty years -, because now I have decided that I no longer like them, and if you don't guarantee me that you will change them, not me, it turns out that I will boycott you and disregard the constitutional mandate. This is intolerable, absolutely intolerable! We're not going to let him, we're not going to let him! [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, immediately lift the kidnapping of the General Council of the Judiciary, and not in cliques, nor with trapicheos, nor with cakes, but with light and tachygraphs in the Appointment Commission; let us choose what we are bound by the laws: the people with the best profile, the most qualified people who achieve the majority consensus of the three fifths of this House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u10	With all due respect, Madam President. It is hard to go up to this rostrum to say certain things, but it is our duty to say them. For woe if the Spanish people knew the detail of the expoliation to which it is submitted annually, with appearance of legality, with laws of budgets like this! However, we are attending an essentially political debate these days, for two reasons. The first is the situation of the Government, a minority coalition of radical socialists and communists of confused anti-democratic ideology, which places it in an internationally non-homologized position; a position that leads a subject of short intelligence and contrasted incompetence, in particular in economic matters, whose investiture specified the support of independenceists, successors of terrorists, openly confronted both to the constitutional regime of 1978, without the candidate blinking, and even a lonely deputy from the province of Teruel to achieve that raquitica majority that entrusted it. To this poor parliamentary condition has followed a calamitous economic management, hampered by the crisis of the epidemic of the coronavirus, but predictable since the beginning of the mandate by the imperience of the president and his collaborators and the contradictions, inevitable and constant, propitiated by the demands of Podemos; economic crisis, the present, already in a conclave phase, with social protest in the streets, as we are seeing in the last days in Cadiz, to which is added an electoral expectation severely to the downfall of the Socialist Party, which Sánchez, entangled in the Moncloa, tries to hide, we are convinced that to all of you, socialist deputies, and we are persuaded or almost persuaded that also to his ministers, who would not like to be part of this government and would flee from the burning, as already done by the Vice-President Churches, because that of which he left to go, as a revolutionary superman, to help Madrid is not believed either himself. The political keys to this budget debate have presented us this week with scenes of impossible intelligence, typical of any work in the theater of the absurdity of Ionesco. Here we have heard ministers or spokesmen of the ruling parties, including the socialist, display a false rhetoric of support for the demonstrators in Cadiz, who attack the government. But who rules in Spain? And who are they protesting against in Cadiz? Against whom we do not rule are the manifestations of Cadiz? [[Applauds]] Or we have heard spokespersons from the government coalition groups, and I refer nominally to Mr. Elorza, who, reproaching the opposition or he knows what, is said to be outraged by ETA terrorism, when it is the successors of ETA who prevent the fall of the Sánchez government. [[Applauds]] One more political lie, the umpteenth of this government, is that these general budgets are very important and essential to govern. False. Rajoy ruled mid-years, in 2017 and 2018, with extended budgets and has governed Sánchez two years, 2019 and 2020, with extended budgets. No, the only political and economic truth of these budgets is that they are used by the Government responsible for the handovers to the parties that give it parliamentary support and that therefore prevent them from having to leave Moncloa because of their - as I said earlier - raquitica parliamentary status; all these handovers that have been discussed and I am not going to denounce again now. And, of course, with everyone's rejoicing, except for VOX, at the expense of constitutional bodies as well. It should be noted that the People's Party has not tabled a single amendment to sections 01 to 05, 08 and 09 of the budgets: neither the General Courts, nor the Court of Auditors, nor the Constitutional Court, nor the Council of State, nor the General Council of the Judiciary. Oh, surprising coincidence, those organs that you have been politically sharing for forty years do not deserve to be censored by you as to the accounts for the next fiscal year; none. And excesses in all of them, which are the cause of mockery of many Spanish and foreign families legally residing in Spain, and included all immigrants with full legal status in our homeland; mockery of all of them, who suffer from hardships due to low or very low incomes, unemployment situations and fiscal effort, because these women ministers of Finance and Labour are going to deceive us more. We are among the first four OECD countries in Europe's fiscal effort, whether they like it or not. And I am going to refer to the truly delusional intervention by the spokesman for Podemos, Mr Uriarte. It is an exception to all these excesses, which are verified in all the constitutional bodies I have mentioned, the House of His Majesty the King, whose budget does not grow, remains frozen since 2018 and is, since that date, inferior to that already in 2006: 8.4 million euros of allocation to the royal family and 7 more support to the management of the Head of State under the Ministry of the Presidency of the Government, in total 15.5 million euros; a very cheap Head of State. It is 224 million euros the budget of the Head of State, of the Presidency of the Italian Republic - we received last week Mr Mattarella solemnly in this plenary room - and 105 the budget of the Presidency of the French Republic. He underlined: republics. I say this to those fighting and irrevocable Republicans who continue to populate the seats in this Chamber. However, it does not support the budget of the House of His Majesty the King the comparison with the Presidency of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u11	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u12	... that is only 15 million in contingent personnel, finger plugged, and 80 million euros per year of information coverage of the Head of Government. That's a real house and that's a real, elective monarchy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Tirado Ochoa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the most advanced democracies in the world, the full democracies, the majority are parliamentary monarchies. It is an honour to defend the monarchy because the Spanish monarchy is a very useful and effective institution and very well valued by the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it is one of the most economical, I would say the most austere, much more austere than other real houses of European countries such as England, Holland, Norway, Denmark or Sweden, and much cheaper than the heads of the state of republics such as France, Germany or Italy. The amending groups of these sections that we are discussing are the budgetary partners of Pedro Sánchez, Bildu and Esquerra Republicana, who want the worst for Spain, question the democratic quality of our institutions and seek their delegitimization. By the way, Mr VOX, how many amendments have you tabled to this section? Zero. You can't criticize what you do. [[Applauds]] In politics it is not worth everything, you cannot go up to this rostrum to insult, to denigrate institutions, nor to fail to the truth. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the nationalists and independenceists want to lead Spain towards economic and moral insolvency with the consent of Pedro Sánchez. Pedro Sánchez must not rule with those who want to break Spain and with the enemies of the Crown. The Crown is not the problem of Spain. Spain's problem is 'Government Frankenstein' and its independent partners. [[Applauds]] The problem of Spain is these false and dangerous budgets that want to ruin Spain. The Sanchez Partners have tabled amendments, ladies and gentlemen, frivolous, irresponsible and demagogic, without any rigour or institutional respect; they attack the parliamentary monarchy because it is the symbol of the unity, continuity and permanence of Spain. The budget of the Royal House is a frozen, austere and transparent budget. Yes, Your Honors, the Royal House is subject to the Transparency Act. Austerity and transparency of those lacking by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the least transparent Government of democracy and the greatest and most ineffective. Those responsible for the amendments to this section, those who are going to vote in favour of these budgets, not only attack the monarchy, but also attack the Transition, and attack the Transition because they have more to do with these budgets, they have a road map to change the model of coexistence of the Spaniards, a work, the Transition, which was of reconciliation, meeting, agreement among all the Spaniards. But not only do they criticize the Transition, they also criticize what was the 1978 Constitution, the Constitution that gave us all Spaniards the greatest period of peaceful coexistence, freedom and prosperity. The budgetary partners criticize the Crown, the Transition and the Constitution because they want nothing good for Spain and, despite that, it is shameful that Pedro Sánchez embraces them to take out these budgets. Political forces have an obligation and responsibility to preserve the reputation and democratic quality of our institutions and we must contribute to their normal functioning. Mrs Bal, I tell you one thing: opportunism and populism are leading you to irrelevantness. [[Applauds]] We will always be supporting the institutions and their stability because that is good for Spain. Institutional stability is good for Spain and will always be supported by the People's Party. We must bet on strong, solvent, solid and credible institutions. The People's Party is the alternative to the disastrous government of Pedro Sánchez and, therefore, the People's Party, as a responsible party, as a government party with a sense of state, we are able to combine making a strong opposition to the most damaging budgets of democracy with reaching agreements to fulfil constitutional mandates, and we do so from the ethics of responsibility and with a serene and useful patriotism. Pedro Sánchez is an irresponsible man, who, by staying in the Moncloa, is willing to mortgage all Spaniards. Neither Otegi nor the independenceists should decide these budgets, but much less the future of Spain and its institutions. They are moments of responsibility, of long lights; they are moments of demanding economic sanity and institutional respect. Sánchez's partners also amend section 08 of the General Council of the Judiciary. Those who have made a social fracture and division in Catalonia, those who do not comply with the sentences, such as that of respecting the Castilian, now come in a demagogic way to amend the General Council of the Judiciary. But what is most serious is that we have a silent government in the face of contempt for court sentences. That is even more serious, because the government has to be in order to respect their sentences, and if they are not respected by their partners, you are not respecting them either. End, ladies and gentlemen. Let us make a policy in favour of coexistence between different people, let us avoid civil hatred, let us have a high eye, let us forge consensus and agreements for the benefit of the general interest; agreements to respect what Europe and the Constitution says that judges should be elected by judges. There is the People's Party, in giving stability to institutions respecting the constitutional mandate. If we add institutional instability to the economic and social ruin to which these budgets lead, it would be very serious for Spain's interests. This evil government will end and Spain will remain a great nation, which has a great king, Philip VI, who is carrying out his functions with absolute respect and loyalty to the Constitution, Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] These are the budgets of ruin, the budgets of shame and the budgets of the enemies of Spain and its institutions. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tirado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the sections we are debating today have as a whole a total of three amendments which I will now comment on, although I am already making progress on them, and I am sure they will not be surprised, that we will vote in favour of the budgets put forward by the Government. The amendment to section 01, Casa Real, is already a classic in these budgets, especially as regards its justification, thus taking a meaning of political gesture rather than of amendment itself. That amendment indicates that the King is charging EUR 8.4 million a year, EUR 23,000 a day, but you well know - it has been explained repeatedly from this rostrum - that that is not the King's salary, but that these amounts correspond to the support of the Royal House as a whole and to the expenses arising from the functions that the Constitution grants him; for example, almost 50% corresponds to staff costs, and you know the data well. They know that seeking to change the constitutional order through an amendment is not possible. The debates of monarchy or republic can be very suggestive, but - it was reminded kindly a year ago - in this case the second Tales theorem must be reapplied, which says that such issues do not fit into this debate. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Apart from this, there are two other amendments calling for the same thing: language training for judges intended for autonomous communities with their own language. Ladies and gentlemen, this group and this Government have demonstrated their sensitivity and their commitment to the languages of the different communities, an issue which can be seen in the initiatives presented and in the agreements reached on this subject, but the decrease raised is not adequate and, moreover, there are other formulas that allow us to address this role, which, I am sure, must be promoted and promoted, especially through the communities themselves with a co-official language. And speaking of this section, speaking of the General Council of the Judiciary, I would like to remind the People's Party that the best amendment that could be made by this institution is to end the blockade that prevents the renewal of this body. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that what is happening in your public space is of great importance in the functioning of any democracy; a public space that constitutes that place between the State and society where citizens form opinions and wills. To alter the public space, distort the public space or, in the words of the philosopher of guard Manuel Cruz, our companion, to slow down the public space undoubtedly entails a reprehensible action for the damage that it causes to the democratic functioning of a country, but the temptation is great for those who think they can get rid of it and the General Budgets of the State do not escape that temptation. The pandemic put on the table the consequences of a few years in which neoliberal policies caused a serious deterioration of the welfare state, especially visible in public health and education systems, and a progressive deterioration based on continuous cuts planned year after year; deterioration and deterioration that entered public space and became apparent to the whole of a citizen who suffered the consequences of such policies. These budgets, the most social in history - six out of every ten euros - continue and increase the commitment made by this Government to strengthen and consolidate the welfare state. Obviously, this cannot please the right and the right, advocates of neoliberal policies who pursue inane public systems, in favor of a privatization of essential services, thus trying to turn the public into charity and privatizing excellence for those who can afford it. For this reason, they need to alter, distort, derail the public space with arguments that distort reality, something we have seen in many of the interventions carried out during this plenary session, some of which escaped the libel qualification. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in this government and in this parliamentary group it will always be a matter of reaching agreements, as will you, by the way, those of the right-wing and the right-wing bench. Difference: this government and this group agree and agree to seek the good of the country and its citizens; you are only looking for pacts and agreements to try to overthrow a legitimate and democratic government. [[Applauds]] You guys are getting so exquisite. Mr. Bal, today we can read in the press how your party admits that they had Andrés Betancourt on their payroll while performing their vocal duties on the Electoral Board. Mr. García Adanero, what happened in 1993, when he called for the negotiation of budgets to Herri Batasuna? [[Applauds]] Mr de VOX, Cadiz's strike was not against the Government, it was against the employer, and it was the Government's mediation that facilitated and enabled the agreement. [[Applauds]] And Mr Tirado, on those amendments which you define as our partners and which you disqualify, do you want me to remind you of how many you have voted in favour, as my colleague Montse Mínguez reminded you? Do you want me to remind you? Well, you can read the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that these are good budgets, but, of course, they are for public education; you know that they are good budgets, but they are for public health; you know that they are good budgets, but they are for the pension system; you know that they are good budgets, but, of course, they are for the most vulnerable classes; you know that they are good budgets with European funds that you have tried to torpedo, and you know that they are good budgets for no one to be left behind. And we could keep talking about science, youth, housing, employment, equality, digitization, infrastructure, environment... You know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen, that you have good budgets. By the way, Mr. Rego, also for the Galicians and the Galicians, even though, unfortunately, it does not help you. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the right and far right, you know that they are a terrible budget for the interests that you defend, because they hound words such as equality, equity, solidarity, public, universal, gratuity. And, by the way, for those who like to brag to the cry of Up Spain!, don't worry, Spain will go up with these budgets designed for those below, excellent budgets for the present and future of this country and for all Spaniards. [[applause]] That's all. Beauty. [[Applauds]] Section 35, Contingency Fund; Section 36, Interterritorial Compensation Funds; Section 37, Other Financial Relations with Territorial Entities
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We move on to the debate on sections 35, Contingency Fund; 36, Interterritorial Compensation Funds; and 37, Other financial relations with territorial entities. In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u18	Thank you, Madam President. A week ago, the Canary Islands Government made the first assessment of damage to the volcano in La Palma, among other things because the deadline for requesting European funds for natural disasters from the European Commission was over. That first assessment has been EUR 900 million, and over the course of this week and a half the wreckage has continued. Palma needs to be rebuilt. They are not three municipalities, it is the whole island, from industrial polygons, educational infrastructures, sanitary, island roads, municipal streets, schools, business fabric, that is, everything, absolutely everything. [[The Lord]] Many times, in budgets, people pull out of the Contingency Fund when they don't know where to get the money, but precisely the Contingency Fund is for cases like La Palma. Right now, palm trees have moved from shock to disbelief. There has been a commitment by the Central Government, the Government of the Canary Islands, statements by European politicians, but there is nothing concrete about it anywhere. Part of the mistrust of the palm people comes from the fact that what was promised in the first few weeks after the eruption has not arrived, for different reasons, but has not arrived, and people are in shock, with anxiety problems, to decide what to do with their life. There are people who don't have the strength to start over, there are people who want to leave the island and there are people who say: I want to stay and I want to get ahead. We propose to the parties that form the Government of Spain an agreement to approve initial amendments on quantities that are clear and parts that are necessary for La Palma, and that, moreover, they were not of the Canary Coalition, but of all the political forces, because this is what the palm society demands, what the Canarys demand and what in circumstances like this, as it was with the COVID, should be: to unite all the political parties to give response to the people of La Palma. The reconstruction of La Palma is not going to be in a year or two or three, so we are proposing a multiannual amount of EUR 700 million for the coming years. Why do we raise it? Because there will be a return of European funds, but above all so that we can start planning and bidding. The first year will have to draft projects, the purchase of land, the replacement of emergency infrastructure until the final ones are completed; the second year will be able to dispose of large amounts of housing, and the third year will be essential. This would give everyone peace and quiet, because, whether there are elections or not, the PP governs, the PSOE governs, the Podemos governs, the government agreements are paralyzed or this Parliament, the amounts destined for La Palma would be available. That's what we're going to vote on today, 700 million in the next three or four years for the reconstruction part. I'm asking the PSOE to reconsider and we can because I think it's important. I'm going to do several thoughts. It cannot be understood that there is money for Netflix, Movistar and HBO, to translate Catalan, Basque or Galician series, that there is money to put cartoons in Basque in Navarre and that there is no for mental health care in La Palma; that there is credit for insolvent companies, including a Chavista airline, and that there is no money for the SMEs in La Palma, all of them affected and having to make the decision whether or not to continue. It is not understood that there is money for any road or AVE that does not affect the Canary Islands - that 1 kilometer or 10 kilometers are billions of euros - and that there is not a euro for the streets and the island roads of La Palma. It is not understood that in budgets, which are hundreds of billions, when it comes to promoting talent, with an unemployment rate of almost 30%, there is for vocational training in a community where there are 9% unemployed, 60 million nominated, and for the Canary Islands, which has 54% unemployed young people and 26% of the normal population, there is no nominated fund for vocational training. And when we talk about talent, when La Palma is going to need all those kids who study off the island - because there is no university or vocational education on the island - or who are getting ready in Europe, where they are from Erasmus, who are going to have to leave their studies in December because their parents have called them because they can't continue paying for a shared flat, they can't continue paying for food here, in Madrid, or in Valencia or, simply, the transport allowance, it's not understood that there are no departures for this and yet there are for everything that you can think of that your parliamentary partners have asked for. I believe in politics, I believe in the things that can be done well, and today the Canary Islands, this country and the island of La Palma needed support from the extreme right to the extreme left, from the ruling parties, from the nationalist parties, to a catastrophe such as that experienced by this country. Everything is under the ground, even the dead have to be cremated in Tenerife. We can believe, and I want to believe what the ministers and the President of the Government say, that what needs to be done will be done. It may be, but palm trees don't need promises anymore, they don't need visitors anymore - you have to thank him anyway because that's important -, what they need are certainties to make decisions about their life, and that should be in the budgets. The last thing I say. There was an agreement because there were matches. There are ministers who told me that they were in agreement with the amendments. One day it will be known who stopped an agreement for La Palma's games to be, who pressed for those games not to be.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u19	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask all of you to reflect and, above all, the Canarian Members to show their parties that this was necessary today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u21	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u22	Thank you, President. The approach of the Socialist and United Party We can have it from the beginning that we do not accept each and every one of its conditions without options to substantially improve these budgets or nothing. Some have believed that the road really ended here, that is, his and his conditions. It's obvious there's more to it than this one. Serve the lesson we gave you last week in the form of 9 billion euros for health, first, to lower your fumes a little bit, because you don't have a majority. It also serves those who speak of usefulness, of useful politics, because useful politics, forgive, is the one that takes the initiative, and not the one that will tow and celebrate four pats that give it from the Government, but above all it serves to be able to face a situation that seems increasingly serious and to which you also seem alien. Some 20,000 health sector reinforcement workers have not been able to be renewed. ICUs are back to very worrying levels, COVID diagnostic tests should continue to be done, vaccines should continue to be given, but we must also recover the levels of diagnoses and treatments that have been parked as a result of the pandemic, and I will give you just one example. Less than 30% of cancers have been diagnosed. It takes money and this situation is straining the system, and all this costs a lot of money. Therefore, without money you cannot face what will surely come or maintain what we have so far. These extraordinary funds that were approved last week should not only be implemented, these funds will maintain and support the system. Either they pay or they beat the system. The staff and the health system need money and this House has voted that yes to you transfer 9 billion euros to the communities, 16 billion euros to Catalonia, which you have urged from all over the sector to the citizens, the councillor Giró, the councillor Argimon and fins of all the same president of Catalonia. And now, if you dare, come up here and explain to the citizens that they are not going to pay 9 billion euros that have been approved here and that include these budgets. I'll give you a couple of data to put them in context. In the period 2014-2020 Spain has absorbed only 49% of the European funds and I am not talking about the Next Generation, Next Generation apart. Only 49%, Spain is one of the last five countries to absorb funds. I mean, there's money, but the different Spanish governments bury it. In the budget of 2021 there were 27 billion euros of the Next Generation, only 5 billion of these 27 billion euros have been absorbed. You, all of you, are incapacitated. Over the past few years, the various governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party have laid down more than forty social and progressive laws passed in Catalonia. And why do I give you this data and remind you of all this? We are talking about budgets and budgets are the food of policies and the pact that the Spanish Government has always offered, it is seen as it is seen - it is seen from the right or it is seen from the left - Catalonia is the pact of hunger and we have also seen it with the last pacts to which Catalanism has reached with the Spanish Government. One of the most powerful things that has been approved in these budgets and that has achieved Catalanism is the EUR 16 billion for Catalonia; EUR 16 billion that you say you are not going to pay. Forgive me, but this is the picture that best describes the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Rumores]] The unit in Spain, that's how you understand me? [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] I'm on my way. It makes no sense to continue to endure how we are humiliated in exchange for nothing. It makes no sense to continue talking to the citizens about promises that we know you will never fulfill. It makes no sense for Catalanism to continue to approve budgets that you do not pay. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u23	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u24	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Group of the European People's Party we have tabled an amendment to the whole of Sections 36 and 37, which, in our view, is absolutely important because it contains a cut of nothing more than EUR 6400 million for the Autonomous Communities as a result of the elimination by the Government of the COVID Fund, despite the fact that the expenditure made by the Autonomous Communities by the pandemic remains - it continues - and we do not know how long it will last. This is a loss of resources only partially offset by the 39 billion that they put in the budget, which, moreover, are not funds for the autonomous communities to finance expenditure, but to cover the hole that the negative liquidation of 2020 has entailed for them; a cut, therefore, of 44% in a programme - 941.O - for the administrations, which have put the fight against COVID behind their backs as a result of the incomparence of the Government of Spain; a decrease of resources for the territorial administrations that you make up also saying that they increase the participation in the revenues of the State - an 8.7 for the autonomous communities and a 10.9 for local authorities -, an absolutely pernicious increase because the liquidation of 2024 will arrive and will have to be returned, as has happened this year. It also includes $31 billion that the Government is obliged to return to the territorial authorities as a result of the enforcement of a Supreme's sentence. Unaudited subject the enforcement of a judgment to the approval of budgets. We have talked here this week, long and focused, about the general budgets for the year 2022, and I think it has become clear that they are the demonstration of the economic and fiscal policy of the government of Pedro Sánchez, the same policy that has plunged Spain into the worst economic and social crisis in the developed world; budgets that are harmful because they contain a discredited macroeconomic picture that, because it is false, invalidates the entire bill; electoral spending that increases the vulnerability of our economy and puts at risk the sustainability of our finances in the medium and long term; and a rise in taxes of nothing more and nothing less than EUR 4 billion to finance a structural deficit and a debt impossible to sustain. The Sánchez Government, in short, is putting all the effort into this fragile recovery on the backs of families and self-governing. But these budgets are also harmful, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, because they are the budgets of the prisoners for budgets, because they are the budgets of the guarantee of studying a minimum in Spanish throughout the Spanish territory for budgets, because they are the budgets of deleting the police from the map of the streets of Barcelona for budgets, because they are the budgets of even delivering the designation of origin of the wine of La Rioja for budgets, because they are the budgets of dragging the dignity of an entire country through the armchair of Pedro Sánchez in exchange for those budgets. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the government it is said that we come out stronger when the reality is that we barely come out of this pandemic, and if we go out we do it with more taxes, with more unemployment, with more debt, with more inequality, with a decrease in the purchasing power of families, because you, gentlemen of the PSOE, are in propaganda and do not deal with or worry about the social reality that exists on those streets; you do not devote the slightest effort to what is really taking away the dream from the Spaniards. What proposal does Sanchez have for those 1500 families that are threatened, affected by the ERE proposed by Unicaja and Liberbank to their workers? Does the Government have anything to say about this, at least a few words of encouragement for those workers, or for those of metal, who made a great deal of progress yesterday in their negotiations? You have been saying for several months that you have not left anyone behind and yet you have already closed 107 000 companies, we have 239,000 workers in ERTE and 349 000 self-employed who have ceased their activity. Yeah, but when does it stop? If only the inflation of September has cost us 18 billion euros to companies and families; families that are not only suffering the rise in energy prices, but every day they have more difficulty filling the basket of the purchase of commodities, with rises such as those of olive oil of 26 %, those of meat of 7 % or those of pasta of 7 %. However, we do not yet know a single measure by this Government to curb the CPI, which is at the highest levels in the last thirty years. And as long as inflation embraces families and businesses, the government goes as a ring to the finger to try to square the tax collection, that is, to make cash at the cost of impoverishing Spanish families and ruining businesses. This situation is also causing the desperation and ruin of thousands of farmers, who cannot compete with insurmountable costs, or of the construction sector, which is on the verge of collapse as a result of the rise of the materials. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, it is not a whim; today on the streets there are more and more protests against the inaction of this government and of a president who wants to entertain us among the fantasies of 2050 or the selective memory of 1939 and thus try to silence the problems that his action and omission are causing in some cases or are aggravating in many others. Therefore in this context, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, these budgets are another great disappointment for Spanish companies and families, because they are not made to think of them, but they are made to guarantee the chair of President Sánchez whatever is in the pocket of the Spanish or whatever is in the decency of a country today on the ground. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u25	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u26	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will conclude the budget debate and proceed to vote on the final opinion after having heard, above all from the Socialist Group, that we and other opposition groups have agreed on things with Bildu or Esquerra just as they do, which seems to be what you want to do is to recognize that their governing pacts are as bad as supporting amendments that are good; it has nothing to do with it, and you know it perfectly well. In this turn of sections 35, 36 and 37 I want to talk to you about a doubt, an unknown and a certainty. The doubt is why the Contingency Fund continues to be the implementation of what the Ministry of Defence eats in all those missions of the Armed Forces abroad, why, for example, a mission such as that of Lebanon, which has been prominent in Lebanon for many years, still eats budgetaryly from the Contingency Fund, which has very clear limitations in article 50 of the General Budget Act, when precisely this type of expenditure is no longer entirely subject to improvisation or surprise and which should have its own budget heading, especially so that bureaucratically this expenditure could be much more agilely implemented. Similarly, in echoing what Mrs Nogueras from Together has said, we have a doubt as to what is going to happen with that will expressed by this House of an extraordinary COVID fund which we do not know whether the Government will execute or not, because it is true that this is what has been voted on and so appears in the opinion, but it seems that there is a rumor that, simply, and also that it has been said by the representative of some of the formations, what the Government will do is not execute it; that is, if the Government really is in that will, it would be interesting for the spokesman of the Socialist Group or the Group to clarify what the situation is going to be and, therefore, to get us out of that doubt. I'm telling you about an unknown woman, and today I see that Mr. Baldoví is not here. I would have liked, above all, to have asked him and his training, Compromises, in relation to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which is in the end the great patch with which the great vice with which we leave each year in this country is covered, because we do not have adequate funding, something that we have consistently rejected because we have been waiting since 2014 to update, if this year again they have deceived him and if this year again he will vote yes to the budgets with an agreement that at the end is not being fulfilled. And I would have wanted to ask him, being Valencian, because I am concerned about this situation; because I am concerned that a few days ago he declared that he was going to give the yes to these budgets, because he literally said: The government will present an improvement in funding before the end of November. And I would have liked to tell Mr Baldoví that, look, it's November 25th and December begins next Wednesday. And we also read last November 19 in La Vanguardia in the edition of the Valencian Community: Hacienda says that Joan Baldoví has already been transferred what had been announced about financing. That is to say, he has already voted or announced a vote that yes for a document that they have to give him after and it turns out that Hacienda manifests - intercommissioned in that news -: Sources of the Ministry of Finance consulted did not hide their surprise at the announcement of Mr Baldoví, of Compromís, and stated that what had been transferred to the deputy was that soon a working paper on the adjusted population criterion would be presented to improve Valencia's under-financing. In the end they will not solve any of the financing, we will again resort to interterritorial compensation funds as a patch and we will continue with the same problem in this case, too, in the Valencian Community. But Mr. Baldoví, from Compromís, has already committed his yes and we have been deceived again by all the Valencians. Remember, Members of the PSOE and of Podemos, when they are again demonstrating for Valencia's under-financing. Finally, a certainty, as I have told you. We were curious to see the very last transfer to nationalism with that transactional 71 that eliminates the original amendment 5317 of Esquerra, in which it was proposed nothing less than a COVID fund for the Spanish municipalities and that we would have supported without any doubt because it seemed to us, coming from Esquerra, an interesting and good amendment for all the Spanish municipalities. But here the Socialist Party with Bildu and Esquerra turn this initiative into a transactional one, the 71, and turn it into investments only for Catalonia and the Basque Country; among them, 11 million euros to promote cinematography in co-official languages and digital projects in Basque. This is a little - and I would explain it to you as Mrs Mínguez of the PSOE, the other day told us here in this rostrum -: money for the Spanish municipalities for COVID, bad; money for cinematography in co-official languages and in Basque or investments only for Basque Country and for Catalonia, well. This is the language in which you explained the amendments to us the other day. I will simply tell you one thing, and return to the beginning of my speech. You were telling us the other day that without nationalism we might not have arguments. I don't know if that's the case. I don't think so, we've talked a lot about budgets, at least from Citizens, but what I'm sure is that without nationalism you wouldn't have either budgets or government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u27	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wanted to begin my speech by saluting my fellow Members, Mr Diouf and Mr Elorza, and showing them my full support and solidarity for the campaign of harassment and signaling that they have suffered since yesterday from the members and supporters of the party of squadrons who populate this House. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would also like to remind myself of the metal workers in Cadiz and to congratulate them on the victory they have achieved in this agreement that was announced last night. [[Applauds]] I think it is clear that once again it is shown that the struggle, and in particular the workers' struggle, is the only way to win and maintain rights. As journalist Gerardo Tecé said yesterday on Twitter, these workers will go home with a clear conscience that they have fought for the rights of everyone, something that cannot be said by those who drive tanks or those who beat men over sixty in the streets with their batons, that when they arrive at their homes it is almost better that their families are not there and do not ask them for what they have done in their work this week. On the other hand, I would also like to recall that when we vote in this House today, there will be a very serious anomaly, an unprecedented democratic anomaly. There will be no 350 votes in this House today, there will be 349 votes in this House today, and there will be 349 votes because a Member who voted more than 64,000 in his province has been robbed of his seat. [[Applauds]] So from here I want to show my full support and solidarity with my colleague Alberto Rodríguez and wish him justice, to continue his struggle until he recovers his seat or, at least, to recognize himself in the field, in the Spanish State or in Europe, the injustice that has been committed with him. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that it is practically lazy to come up here after an intervention in which you once again tell us about ETA, prisoners and anything that happens to you. I'll tell you two things. On the one hand, with regard to the subject of all this from the prisoners, Venezuela and ETA, I think that for the next year they should practically rise here and, as is usually done when a spokesman for the Joint Group or the Plural Group comes up and says I support the amendments that have been tabled by such another party to which I do not represent but which is in my group, that you say: I support the arguments of ETA, of Venezuela, of such, and now I continue with the budgetary debate. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the chaos, the apocalypse, the seven plagues of Egypt that you preach, reminds me a lot of what Mr. Married said when he told us that this country, that this state, was not going to be able to meet the vaccination predictions; or when he said that what was being done with the vaccine was a real chaos. Of course, we are going to a news story on 9 November, we see the World Health Organization congratulating Spain on its role during the management of the coronavirus pandemic and the vaccination campaign, and we wonder if that is exactly the kind of prediction you are making with the economic context set out in these budgets, because we know that yes, that you sow chaos, but then the reality is that this government is doing things right, that it is doing things right thinking of the interests of the popular classes and those below, and that in the end we are an example, not only in Europe but in the whole world, of managing a situation as difficult as it is a pandemic. [[Applauds]] So I think you should change the approach a little bit. Not to mention, for example, data at the level of employment. Same thing happens, they come up here, they tell us about the plagues... We know that the situation is difficult, it is difficult in Spain, it is difficult in all countries, obviously, after what we have experienced with the pandemic, but the reality is that the policies that have been implemented since the vice-presidency of Yolanda Díaz and the Ministry of Labour have already made us recover the pre-pandemic employment levels, while in the previous crisis it took almost ten years. And they have caused us to have, at present, social security membership rates that have been at their highest level since 2008, above the twenty million affiliates. I ask you to recognize something sometime, to recognize that something is being done well. It's okay, you can come here and say: look, we recognize you that in the management of vaccination you have done it right; we recognize you that in the management of employment policies you have done it right, but we believe that in this and in that other you are doing it wrong, and we believe that in these budgets this or whatever can be positive or negative. It's okay! There is nothing wrong with recognizing it and there is nothing wrong with political dialogue. But no, you continue in the philosophy of Mr Montoro, that Spain sinks that we will already rescue it. Because you are not interested in people's interests; you are interested in taking up those blue seats that are so critical when you don't have them. That's all they care about, we all know. [[Applauds]] And speaking of the budget items in sections 35, 36 and 37, they are items that are important because they are funds for unforeseen circumstances and to provide the autonomous communities with the resources necessary to meet part of their financial needs and, also, for issues related to interterritorial solidarity. The Contingency Fund, as is known, is a fund in which the Government has little room for manoeuvre, basically because it is a fund that is determined by the regulation set out in the Organic Budget Stability Act and by the regulation set out in Article 50 of the General Budget Act, which states that it must be 2% of the total expenditure for non-financial operations. And that is exactly what this Government has done, that is, to comply scrupulously with the law. As for the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, it remains stable in relation to 2021. And with regard to section 37, we believe that there is indeed a decline, but because last year's situation was very specific; there was a need for financial needs for communities that, together with other funds that were boosted, helped to deliver public services and the pandemic-related emergencies. These needs remain, and there are still a number of additional, albeit minor, funds. We, from our parliamentary group, believe that this government from the very beginning has demonstrated, unlike what it did at the time, in the previous crisis, the government of Mr Mariano Rajoy, who was concerned about being permanently attentive to the financing needs of the autonomous communities and local authorities. While you established austerity laws, in which you basically said that they were imposed by decree and were imposed by the Legislative cutbacks, with inability to meet the needs of these communities, this government established a series of funds that have helped these autonomous communities to have the necessary resources; resources-and I finish already - which, for example, in Andalusia have not been spent because Mr. Moreno Bonilla seems better to draw a headline saying that he has surplus than meeting my nation's financing needs. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u29	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u30	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me make a preliminary comment. Today the parliamentary debate concludes and everything points to the public accounts that have been presented by this Government by 2022, and it is a real insult that not one of the twenty-three members of the Spanish Government is present in this debate to defend their public accounts. [[Applauds]] Do you know what the problem is, ladies and gentlemen? That, like most of this House, the Members who make up the support of the Spanish Government, simply applaud them as seals, can insult them in the face, as they insult this House today, the parliamentary decorum and the Spaniards, with not a single member of the Government present, and you, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to applaud them as seals, which is why you are earning your salary. We are discussing sections 35 to 37 of the State General Budgets for 2022, those relating to the Contingency Fund, the Interterritorial Compensation Funds and other financial relations with territorial entities. To speak of sections 35 to 37 of the General Budgets of the State is, without a doubt, to speak of the solidarity that, according to article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, must exist between the various points and parts of the Spanish territory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in addressing this budgetary debate it is necessary to denounce that in Spain, despite the mandate of Article 2 of the Constitution, there is no solidarity, as we have just seen from the previous intervention of the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, who considers that in the public accounts of this Government of the Socialist Party in relation to the various funds allocated to the financing of the autonomous and local communities, to regionalized investments, they have little to do with the autonomous communities presided over by the People's Party. There is no solidarity in Spain, and there is an absolute breach of the principle of equality, which, also by constitutional mandate, should exist among all Spaniards. This is largely due to the fact that the processing of the State's general budgets has become an obscene process of marketing and breaking up the Spanish nation. Today, we have at one side of the negotiation of the Government of Spain, absent today in this House, a weak government headed by a Socialist Party that has lost all sense of state and has raised Moncloa to the greatest political criminal regime in history, communism; on the other side of the negotiation we have at the parliamentary coven, the partners that have voluntarily decided this Government to be its preferred partners in the approval of the budgets of the State, Catalan separatists, anti-systems, successors of the corruption of the criminal clan Pujol, the always present Basque extortionist party, as novelty and for the second consecutive year, although now as preferential partners, to the formation that defends and integrates among its ranks the terrorists etarras, EH Bildu, whom this Government, during the processing of last year's General Budgets of the State, decided to launder and sit at the table of the Democrats, betraying with it the victims of terrorism, their memory and their comrade-in-law who fought against the self-defence and their own-armament. They will be able to shout whatever they want when they come up to this rostrum, but they will not be able to hide their ignominy, they will not be able to silence the voice of terrorist Otegi, coordinator of EH Bildu, to whom we have all been able to listen when last October 20, 2021 said - literally - if to get the 200 prisoners out we have to vote the budgets, because we will vote. And that is what this coalition government has done, that is what the Socialist Party has done, to consent that, in order for public accounts to go ahead and be able to stay in Moncloa for a few months, these budgets will close the ETA seal. [[Applauds]] It speaks of two hundred prisoners Mr Otegi, and it is the small letter that does not appear included in sections 35, 36 and 37, because the socialist government has already transferred 277 stories since 2018 to prisons near the Basque Country, according to a very determined road map. First of all, budgets for prisoners last year: approaching five floors every Friday, on Fridays of blood, to prisons near the Basque Country until the current figure of two hundred. Transfer of prison competition to the Basque Country. And once it has been made effective, release and covert amnesty, because, of course, they have stopped chasing those ethoriz fungi, those tributes to the ages when they are released. And that's what we're going to do. Their surrender to ETA, their process of whitening, is such that they have come to present last October a letter of reparation of the General Budgets of the State that today we are debating with the aim of eliminating the express mention of ETA and Bildu in program 142.A of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when it was indicated as a program to counter the actions of the various terrorist organizations, including ETA, their environment and their related political groups. They do not insult us when they come up to this rostrum and qualify the opposition with appeals of the most varied, even saying that we have a coup spirit, but if, moreover, the one who qualifies him and qualifies us as franchisors is the deputy Odón Elorza, it will not be I who answered him, but I will make my own the reply that Gregory Ordóñez - murdered by ETA - gave him in the Basque Journal, under the title 'To my dear friend Elorza', on July 20, 1998: 'I almost commit the clumsiness of answering you at the same level trace that you demonstrate. You catch me at a time when I am tremendously tired of this policy of alpargata, slander and lies and of using insult as the only argument. In our city council, it matters very little about the work you do or the initiative you propose, just do not communicate with a few acronyms to be the subject of all kinds of discredits.' You called Gregorio Ordóñez Franquista. Next was ETA's shot and his murder. [[Applauds]] Really...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u31	Your Honor, your time is running out. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u32	... is their moral decay - I conclude, Mr President - the only thing that expresses that they equate those who defend the victims with miserable. And miserable, no doubt, Mr. Elorza...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u33	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u34	...it's the pederasts. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u35	For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are 1118 women killed by gender-based violence. No more fear, no more pain, no more. [[Applauds]] VOX says the government isn't here. The government is ruling. And the whole government's been through here. The one we haven't seen at any time is Mr. Abascal. This seat, Abascal's, has been occupied all the time by some VOX MP, for that chair game they bring in. In any case, Mrs. Olona has spoken of seals. I ask you for the respect that the 350 Members here deserve, the respect that a fighter for democracy like Odon Elorza deserves, the respect, Your Honor, of all Members. [[Applauds]] But speaking of seals, a little bit of bulldozer shame: they are the only party that is applauded in this House before it intervenes. A little bit of shame torera. [[Applauds]] Eighty years later, what he said in this House, Fernando de los Ríos, is that the truly revolutionary is respect. We do respect the citizens, who are out there, and we respect them by worrying about their problems and providing solutions in these budgets. We are faced with sections that are tremendously social, as they show that, in the face of adversities, the only way out is a solidarity, strong and efficient state. These budgets tell us about the value of the public. Our society has lived DANA, phylomenas and pandemics and suffers, together with the inhabitants of La Palma, the effects of the volcano I want to highlight the value of the public, that of those public agents who are there where the most helplessness exists and to protect the citizens who need it the most. That value of the welfare state is what we strengthen with these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and the extreme right, after listening to you all these days, we have found that you are not only doing the amendments wrong, but that because you are not working, you have not even changed your speeches. I propose a game, that of the taboo, with two rules: you cannot insult or use the words imprisoned, ruin and Venezuela. They've run out of speeches! [[Applauds]] They said that the ERTEs were going to become ERE, and they were wrong: with President Pedro Sánchez, a historical record of social security affiliations with twenty million members. They said that they were the budgets of ruin, and they were wrong: we grow this year, we will grow next year and the European Commission has said that they are prudent accounts. They said it took us five years to vaccinate the entire Spanish population, and they made a mistake: Spain is on the world stage of vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, they were then wrong and, with these budgets, they are again wrong. Despite his catastrophic speeches, Spain, with the work of his people and with the support of this government, is moving forward. [[Applauds]] The Contingency Fund is increasing, and it is doing so for that Spain of the families devastated by any catastrophe, which are, by the way, increasingly frequent by the climate change that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, deny. They are families who have to feel close to a country and feel that they care about them. In these budgets we allocate sufficient funds for them. These budgets concern the families, the workers and the workers, like those of Cadiz; that Spain of my generation that is thinking of emancipation, because they are the most ambitious budgets in the field of youth; the Spain of the ordinary people, who need these budgets that make possible the greatest investment in the history of scholarships, that guarantee the purchasing power of our pensioners and that they make the greatest investment for the young. All these PP policies, you cut them. These budgets are intended to make a country more supportive of communities and municipalities, because we believe in a just recovery, also fair with the territories. Just one thing: in the four years of Pedro Sánchez' government, the communities have received 35% more investment than with the Rajoy governments, 490 billion euros more for health, for education, for dependence, for the demographic challenge. Lessons from the People's Party, none. [[Applauds]] You were more of a short budget for the autonomous communities and the municipalities. In addition, in these budgets they will vote against VAT refunds to the communities, against the increase in deliveries to the autonomous communities, against a 17% increase in funding to the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, they have been absolutely portrayed. I'm finishing up. I believe that the debate was summed up very well by my colleague Montse Mínguez, who put them in front of a mirror. You are contradictory, unpredictable and disloyal. You say that with the independenceists or for water, but then vote with them almost two hundred amendments in the Commission; the Socialist Group, two. You say that there are many vetoes to the budget amendments, but when they govern they quadruple the vetoes: almost 4,000 vetoed amendments. You are so inconstant that on Mondays you are with Casado, on Fridays you are with Ayuso and on Sundays with Franco at tribute Masses. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You're unpredictable, but the only thing you've got clear... [[Rumors]] I don't know who's screaming, but what we expect from the PP is not screams, but apologies. [[Applauds]] The only thing that is clear, ladies and gentlemen of PP and VOX, is your nostalgia for that black and white Spain. The only thing that is clear is that 'that Spain falls, that we will already raise it' that Montoro said. But you know what, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and VOX? That this country, with the impulse of its people, is not going to fall, that Spain is going better and that with these budgets we continue to advance, hardly weighing them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some standing positions]] Entities S.P. administrative, business and foundational budget estimates
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u37	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the debate on the budget of the administrative, corporate and foundational public sector entities. In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I welcome the various amendments tabled by Teruel Existe, Union of the Navarro People and Coalition Canaria, a parliamentary liturgy, Mr Honrubia Hurtado, which prevents the House from paradeing several representatives of the Joint Parliamentary Group, with the consequent prolongation of these marathon sessions. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are already dealing with the last day of the debate and the last votes on the budget procedure by Congress. At the end of the section devoted to administrative, business and foundational public service entities with an estimated budget, it is appropriate to reiterate that institutions, bodies and entities for economic analysis differ widely from the Government's forecasts in these public accounts for the financial year 2022. As unfortunately it is often done that what goes wrong ends badly, the archive and the memory remind us that we have in this section some examples of the consequences of an incorrect management, marked by decisions that end up being ruinous and whose red numbers thicken the public debt, which tarnishes the future of the Spaniards of the present and also of those of the future. First of all, I would like to refer to the State Society for Industrial Participations, SEPI, an unusual tailor's drawer with which the government carries out rescue and reinforcement operations of the productive fabric, some of which are very suspicious because they are preceded by very opaque maneuvers - see in this respect the black serial around the Plus Ultra airlines -. Although this coalition government has not had SEPI among its main priorities - in fact, it has had an interim president until last spring - for the next year is good news the maintenance of the Fund for the Support of the Solvency of Strategic Enterprises, which came to us last year with the European Community impulse following the business emergencies resulting from the pandemic of COVID-19 and which is implemented through the measures provided for in the Royal Decree Law 25/2020. However, it is bad news that SEPI, which is responsible for managing this support fund, has needed the European Commission's help in extremis in order to extend the granting of aid for a six-month period in the face of the huge administrative impasse in order to study and resolve requests affecting half a hundred companies. Not even thirty consultants hired to do so have been used to alleviate the backlog. Therefore, the reliability of SEPI and, ultimately, that of the Ministry of Finance must be quarantined, because it has not given priority to the sharing of resources that needed agility and that are the table of salvation for important companies and for thousands of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, also in this budget section on public undertakings, I would like to refer to Radiotelevision Española, which, fortunately, has passed the interim administrator's ugly screen and is facing its immediate future with a new management team. State public television is at a minimum of audience, and that is because it is at a minimum of credibility as a result of its service to the partisan interests of the Government. Under the executives of Pedro Sánchez, Radiotelevision Española has dedicated itself to the purge of excellent professionals and its chapter of experiments with non-domestic producers has added more losses and a debt that amounts to more than 360 million euros, and growing. On the other hand, I would like to take this step through the forum of Congress to record the very high risk of the loss of proximity programming, my refusal to close the territorial centers and stations that the RTVE Corporation has distributed throughout Spain, and whose regionalized contents are of great interest, a case specific to Asturias. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of ADIF, a body to which I have devoted several of my partial amendments, one wonders what has failed to bring about the application of historic sanctions, and when the existence of cartels has just been ratified that have conditioned the tenders and that substantial contracts have been awarded. The National Commission on Markets and Competition decided last October that for fifteen years a conglomerate of companies was distributed tenders called by ADIF for more than EUR 4100 million, a fraud that impacted the public sector in full, as the companies increased the price paid for these types of contracts around electrification and electromechanical equipment. The total fines reach 245 million euros, but it causes perplexity, amazement and scandal that the Spaniards have to continue paying this billionaire rail rinsing for a few more hours. This explains that they do not reach the resources for the modernization of the network of closenesses - which in Asturias is in the process of dismantling - and that the agreement for the integration of the railway in Gijón is broken and delayed, and that per saecula saeculorum remains in oblivion the underground of Avilés, and that the informative studies are excluded so that the high speed reaches the three large Asturian nuclei of population. Neither do the Government's railway plans address the competitiveness of the two major ports of Asturias, such as El Musel and Avilés, for which rail and also road links do not provide adequate budget items or directly do not provide for anything. Nor do I want to fail to point out that the enormous investment effort made for the construction of the variant of Birds stops the Lena Pula, and that between Leon and Asturias the high speed is transmuted in low speed, cat by hare. In order to correct these railway accidents, for which ADIF and the Ministry of Transport are responsible, I have tabled several amendments that combat the aggravation with which the Government also treats the Atlantic Corridor budgetaryly compared to the one received by the Mediterranean Corridor, and which enshrines a very different railway Spain. Finally, and in conclusion, Madam President, in this section of the draft General Budgets Act, I would like to reiterate the need to rationalise once and for all the very large conglomerate of public enterprises, many of which provide services that are already covered by the private sector. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u40	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. The BNG has tabled numerous amendments in the field of infrastructure, especially aimed at modernising our internal rail network. I will not tire of repeating this, I believe that these budgets, although they incorporate some items, especially in relation to the Atlantic freight corridor, are insufficient to compensate for our country's historical deficit in infrastructure, equipment and services, especially railways. The arrival of the AVE is of little use, thirty years late, by the way, if our internal railway network is in the conditions in which it is located, if Galicia does not have closeness services, does not have a modern and efficient network, only the line of the Atlantic Axis has been modernized and not yet fully, considering that on the one hand the connection between that line A Coruña-Vigo with Ferrol is missing, through the execution of the bypass of Betanzos and the modernization of the railway network between Betanzos and Ferrol, and on the other hand the connection between Vigo and Tuy is missing to allow also the direct connection with the future Portuguese high-speed network of the Atlantic Axis. It should be remembered that the Portuguese Government has established as a priority the connection in the Atlantic Axis with Galicia, not precisely the connection with Madrid. Portugal, as a sovereign state, escapes from that radial dynamic that so much likes in Madrid in terms of communications and road or rail network. Its objective is the connection with Galicia and there is no such desire on the part of the Spanish Government to connect Galicia with Portugal, with that small stretch known as the southern exit of Vigo, which must also be a priority, or, for example, to end the isolation of cities like Lugo. I was saying it yesterday, it's surprising that Lugo isn't connected to Santiago. Do you know where I'm gonna be next Saturday? Well, I'll tell you, at 11:30 in front of Lugo Station in a citizen mobilization to claim a decent train for Lugo. Unfortunately it was not possible in these General State Budgets, but the BNG will continue to work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words on behalf of the Democratic Party are to join in celebrating the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Let us hope that the fight against this scourge is not a matter of a day, and that awareness and policies from different levels of responsibility in the different administrations are exercised day by day. Much progress has been made, but much remains to be done. Having said that, we are coming to the end of the parliamentary process of these budgets in this House, at least for the time being and knowing that they can come back when the Senate, if it deems it appropriate, modifies them. It is therefore going to be your last intervention in this area, and I will try to focus our position. We are going to support these budgets, we are going to vote in favour of these budgets, the result of a negotiation in which certain improvements have been made in the general budgets of the State, and we have reached an important agreement for us in the field of the implementation of European funds in Catalonia, according to which these European funds are also accessible to all those non-profit entities that are managing public services in the field of health and in the social field. This is a relevant and important agreement for us, and together with the improvements we have made - and which have also introduced other political formations and which we value - we consider it sufficient to vote in favour of these budgets. Now, I said it in the previous procedure, I said it during the budget procedure, and now that they are finished we are setting our position on it again: the responsibility of the parliamentary groups that we are going to vote for this budget today, even if it is not to the liking of 100% of our groups, ends today. From the adoption of these budgets, the responsibility for their implementation lies exclusively with the Government, the President of the Government and the ministers and ministers who make up it and, of course, with the parliamentary groups which support this Government. They were right when the various ministers and the President of the Government came up here and said that without a budget it was very difficult to combat the crises resulting from the health crisis: the social crisis and the economic crisis. Obviously, the parliamentary groups will have complied; now it will be up to the Government to comply. It will be up to him to execute the budget diligently and within the execution of the budget no one escapes that from Catalonia we are extremely vigilant with regard to the budget execution of the investments. This is one of the best budgets - I am not saying that it is a good budget or an optimal budget - that have been approved in relation to Catalonia and investments in Catalonia. Now this will have to materialize. This is a declaration of intent, of goodwill and we put a tool at the service of the Government. It will now be the government that will have to be accountable to Catalonia and also to the parliamentary groups that we offer you today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Delgado Arce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you defend the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group to the budget of the administrative, business and foundational public sector entities. I won't be able to refer to all of them, I will specifically refer to some. With regard to SEPI, in addition to sharing all the statements made by Mr Martínez Oblanca concerning the Fund for Aid to the Solvency of Strategic Enterprises, the results of which are at present truly perric, we must insist from this rostrum on the defence of the amendment which seeks to create a fund of SEPI triangulation for the sale to a solvent industrial operator of the Alcoa aluminium plant, in A Mariña Lucense, for the amount of a euro, precisely in order to ensure compliance, both with the commitment of the Government of Spain contracted and, moreover, with the parliamentary majority agreement that was adopted in this House. It is an operation in a single act of sale of this factory, it is a temporary intervention that, together with the effective support that should be given to the energy price of the electro-intensive industry, could save the only primary aluminum factory that exists in Spain, and that is fundamental to our economy. [[Applauds]] We also advocate the recorded amendment to transfer EUR 150 million to the Post Office, where the insufficient budgetary resources in this bill is notorious. If we want to ensure the maintenance of the universal postal service, we must increase its allocations. We also advocate - and this is not going to be the case - support for Navantia within the shipbuilding industry. Our amendments seek to give the shipyards - in this case Ferrol's - a workload, so that the bridge ship, which is necessary for the transition, can be taken over until the execution of the frigates is at full performance and also that covered dry dock, which is an essential part of the transformation and modernization of this shipyard, which must be competitive. [[Applauds]] With regard to ADIF and ADIF High Speed - the entities that manage our railway infrastructure - we have tabled many amendments, from all territories. What they intend to do is to allocate in an efficient way more resources for investments in the Atlantic Corridor, but also in the Mediterranean Corridor, to also meet the needs of the nearby cores of our country and, at the same time, to invest in those high-speed lines that are most backward today, such as the Asturian one, such as the Extremadura line and others. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Galician, I must say that I welcome the fact that we are about to fulfil a historic fact on 21 December, when high speed will reach Ourense, which is the gateway to high speed. And we reiterate the need to continue to work so that the map of capitals, of Galician cities with high speed increases, and that the time schedule committed is fulfilled, especially the commitment to that precious city of Lugo, which cannot be at hour and a half of Ourense when it takes two and a quarter hours to travel from Ourense to Madrid. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give some thought to the economy and budgets in the time I have left. More than seventeen years ago - in particular, October 6, 2004 - I was in that seat; here was Rodriguez Zapatero and there was Mariano Rajoy. It was the debate of a question prior to the 2005 General State Budgets, the first presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Government. Rajoy asked him whether these budgets were going to contribute to job creation, and Zapatero amazed everyone with his answer. I will read it literally, because it is in the Journal of Sessions: 'Although I am surprised by the statement I am going to make, because it is not very common in the political debate, I have no inconvenience in recognizing that it is not a bad economic inheritance that we have received. It's so clear.' Mr Rodríguez Zapatero recognized the truth: the legacy left by the People's Party in those years was an economic heritage that allowed us to govern this country and move forward. He passed the first legislature of Don José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and came the second, and came the election campaign of 2008. Do you remember in February of that year the debate between Don Manuel Pizarro and Don Pedro Solbes, Economic Vice-President of the Government? In that election debate, Mr Solbes strongly defended the economic policy of the Government. He was telling us about a one-time slowdown, it will continue during 2009, it will be over in 2010. Unfortunately, time soon gave him reason, because it was just in 2010 when the Socialist Party, the socialist government - which clearly supported Mr Pedro Sánchez as a Member and voted - produced a 5% cut in civil servants' salaries, a 5% freeze on pensions and a €45 billion cut in the welfare state. That is to say, very drastic measures involving a clear austereicide, in that terminology which you clearly used. Well, in 2011, in December, when we arrived at the Government, we received this inheritance to which I have just referred. We had to pay 100 billion euros in debts that were in the drawers, the tariff deficit of 27 billion, the health debt of 14,000, in infrastructures there were 17 billion euros, we had to create the Autonomous Liquidity Fund to support autonomous communities that could not pay neither health nor education. And why did I say all this? For, ladies and gentlemen, history is repeated; history is repeated. Alerts are coming from all places, national and international, from politics, from the economy, from analysts. The situation is worrying. We are the European country that fell the most in the pandemic: 10.8% negative, and we are the country of Europe that is taking longer to recover pre-pandemic levels. Funcas, the analyst, expects us to grow by 4.8% in this year 2021, which is 1.4 points worse than was expected in September. And now, ladies and gentlemen, they bring us an economic picture that is unrealistic, with growth of 7% by 2022, when they are telling us these very solvent people that growth will be 5.9%. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that you - I say this to you with all due respect - are disconnected from the reality of the country. You do not listen to what the farmers, the farmers, the transporters, the self-employed, the hairdressers say, who yesterday again showed their indignation, the metal industry, the car industry. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to pay attention to the real problems of people and to those who recommend a change of direction in economic policy. Unfortunately, you in these budgets are not going to give it, but you are in time to rectify so that, when the end of your electoral period comes, those who succeed you - we aspire to be us, led by Pablo Casado - we can take this country out normally and attend to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have reached the final line of the processing of this draft Law on General State Budgets for the financial year 2022. These accounts represent, first of all, a fundamental milestone for the consolidation of the legislature, in the face of what they wanted, what the political, media rights wanted: that these budgets would mean a crack in the majority of progressive and democratic forces that we are taking forward this country, and we have to tell them that they mean the opposite, they will mean a consolidation of the majority of progressive and democratic forces, that from the differences we come to agreements to take forward these budgets and this country, and they will also mean the consolidation of the recovery, a recovery that - we insist - will not, as at other times, be only a recovery for large companies, but it will be a recovery that will come, that must come to the whole productive fabric, and that particularly at the point that concerns us must support, accompany, feed the planning, economic development of all public enterprises with public participation that are essential to generate economy, quality employment and in many cases that also deal with public services that are rights. Budgets that not only serve to respond to the controversial, difficult social and economic situation resulting from the pandemic crisis, but above all have to be a forward look to tackle the tasks that we have as a society, such as the ecological transition, the digitalisation of the economy, gender equality, the development of the care economy, the strengthening of public services and, ultimately, everything that it builds, strengthens, strengthens social cohesion. We have already said this on numerous occasions, but it should be remembered again, unlike the response to the 2008 global crisis, which was a right-wing response, which was a response in the form of austerity, in the form of suffering, in the form of inequality, poverty generation and instability and economic inaction, the response to this crisis in the Spanish State, but also at the European level, and I would say that at the global level, it clearly puts an element on the table, and it is necessary to strengthen the role of the State as a protecting, caring and dynamic element not only for the economy, but also for the day-to-day and material conditions of our citizens' existence. And that is precisely what this budget proposal does. Firstly, the non-financial revenue of the State is forecast to increase by 20.6% to EUR 182 billion, which is clearly largely the result of ongoing fiscal reforms and economic activation and employment. The expenditure chapter keeps the increase of almost 65 % in the non-financial expenditure ceiling compared to the last General Budgets of the People's Party State, with 1960 billion euros. With regard to the investment chapter, a record public investment of EUR 40 billion is envisaged, an increase of 9.6% annually. In short, historical budgets that enable the development of broader social policies and the strengthening of the State - although some worry and annoy - as a driver of investment and economic activity. As far as this is concerned, it is clear that, probably for the first time in this country, there is a government that understands that planning in public enterprises is a particularly relevant matter, and there we must continue to work to ensure that companies such as Renfe, ADIF, Post Offices or EFE end once and for all also with precarious employment, and that jobs and rights are consolidated for the workers of all these companies. We must also continue to work to ensure that, for example, cutting-edge and cutting-edge shipyards, such as those in Navanthia, continue to have a workload. [[Applauds]] In short, we need to deepen the role of the state in the economy as an absolute guarantor of an economy designed for all and for all. I'm just finishing up. In any case, I think it's time for a final reflection. The political and media right says that these budgets are going to be approved by the hands of those who want to break Spain, of those who are illegitimate, coups, etc., etc. - in short, of those we want to break Spain - but I wonder if approving, for example, a compensation fund for workers who have been working under unhealthy conditions under asbestos for many years means breaking Spain. I wonder whether, for example, stabilizing the precarious situation of interims and interims in the public administration, interims and interims to which you have condemned for years to precariousness, also means breaking the state and breaking Spain. Even going to such an inconsistent debate about languages, I wonder whether the fact that I can see in my home with my daughters a television series in one of the various languages in which I speak with them also means breaking Spain. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the right, I believe that as a final reflection you must tell them that, in the face of their bubbles and in the face of their belligerence, we must collectively congratulate the democratic and progressive forces that, by contrast, we know how to reach agreements; and tell them that, when they say that we are illegitimate and that we are coups, they remember something fundamental: the political and legislative majority that is going to approve these budgets represents the social majority of this country that does not want to go back, where you want to take us, but wants a future of democracy, justice of rights and social justice. Thank you and good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are talking about a section that is called administrative, corporate and foundational public sector entities with an estimated budget, and just spoke to Podemos' spokesperson and talks about things that have nothing strictly to do with this section. He talks about the bottom for the workers and asks if that is destroying Spain, and talks about small gifts that they seem to make. Lord of Podemos, do not try to deceive us, these budgets of yours, which are a real disaster for Spain, are nothing more than a hook, and all these funds of which you speak, these sophasias that you cast are as if they were nothing more than bait for the Spaniards to bite the hook. So don't try to fool us, because thank God you're here to take out those details you're trying to fool all the Spanish voters with. [[Applauds]] This section you have barely talked about shows how budgets are. These budgets are a rule, because they are a very complex, intricate law, which has many details, small details, complex issues and which is not governed by the rules of ordinary accounting. That is, if you, Mr. Businessman who listens to us, Mr. Accountant and even the Auditor, want to understand these budgets you will not be able to because, well, they are governed by separate rules, because you already know that the welfare state of politicians goes by its own rules. In this particular section we find in particular those small covets in which it is very easy to place a good socialist, put a salary to a friend or simply steal on many occasions or manage negligently and squander the funds that the Spaniards pay, because they do not forget that these budgets come exclusively from the taxes that the Spaniards pay. They are the very clear example of what Mr Errejon describes in that video - do you remember? - that he said: we must build societies, entities and associations in which to take refuge, in which to place ourselves. For it is a departure from the administrative, business and foundational public sector that almost perfectly reflects what Mr Errejón says. I'm telling you. Public enterprises that are involved in this item: €45 billion. Administrative entities: EUR 425 million. State public investment funds - funds in the sense of investment funds, not public funds, because they are all public funds -: 706 million euros. Public foundations: EUR 490 million. A total of EUR 6 236 367 000. Scale, scale! Good. But, well, what is this magnitude? It is difficult to understand this because these amounts are immense and difficult to understand. You will see, all Spaniards with an income of 21,000 euros or less tax a very similar amount for IRPF. Spanish gentlemen, if we take this game out of a pen, these six thousand and peak millions of euros, all the Spaniards who listen to us and who earn 21 000 euros or less would be exempt from paying IRPF. [[Applauds]] In studying this data I have realized one thing, and it is that there are about eleven million returns from the income of Spaniards who charge 21,000 euros or less, and the total of declarations in Spain is about twenty-one million, eleven million-twenty-one million. That is, approximately 50% of Spanish taxpayers for IRPF earns EUR 21,000 or less. Too much, too much! And this for you will be the middle class: 21,000 euros gross, take off taxes, take off social security contributions... In short, all Spaniards who charge 21,000 euros or less could not pay the income tax. Can you imagine the government of change, the socialist government-can exempt from paying the IRPF to all Spaniards who charge 21,000 euros or less? Can you imagine? Well, keep imagining why that's not going to happen, because these are going to take them out to the last cent they can. [[Applauds]] And for what? For what? I'm going to give you some examples so you can face this game that Mr. de Podemos disguises as if it were a bait. International Foundation for Ibero-American Public Administration and Policy: receives €73 million in grants. This is a cooperation agency and these are some of the projects it has launched: strengthening the Belarus Disaster Agency, €73 million; supporting Myanmar Police reform, €73 million; improving the conditions of employment in Georgia, not Georgia of the United States, €73 million - to be a cooperation agency for Ibero-America is quite off-site, but good - and institutional support to improve the performance of the Tunisian research and innovation system, €73 million - of course, the general secretariat of this foundation is the Catalan Socialist Party -. Foundation for the Prevention of Occupational Risks, EUR 15 million. Do you remember all those stories, little ones, the EREs of Andalusia and the training courses? Well, here's the Occupational Risk Prevention Foundation. State Foundation for Training and Employment, 55 million euros, the same story. Foundation of the School of Industrial Organization, a university that lends master's degrees, etc. Well, there are already many companies in the market that do this, such as UNED - which is a public university - or Menéndez Pelayo. This school receives two million euros in grants, despite having three million profits. I don't understand very well why we subsidize a public body that also gets benefits; let's save at least that two million grant. Spanish Foundation for Science and Technology, 19 million euros. It is dedicated to organizing events; last year it organized 6 events; 19 million euros, 6 events, touch your noses. And some of the events: conferences such as A dialogue between art and science, From cosmos to life, canvas, 19 million euros; colloquium on digital dissemination, 19 million euros; biology of love, 19 million euros. This is where the taxpayer's money goes. Gentlemen of Podemos, do not count battles. Biodiversity Foundation, very nice, 2 million euros. SEPI - they have spoken of it -, 117 million euros in subsidies; a year loses 148 million euros; 148 million euros in losses despite the subsidy. Networks, EUR 426 million, president, of course, socialist. Renfe - they have already said - EUR 1500 million in subsidies; Renfe, which also operates in a monopolistic market, provides poor services in the vicinity and expensive services in the long distance; and, thus, one after another.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u49	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u50	Yeah, I'm done. Finally, RTVE, the other crown jewel, EUR 1 billion in grants. And, among other things, the program of Jesus Cintora, which has cost us about 4 million, 43,000 euros per program. Ladies and gentlemen, when you see every show in the belt that you know you have paid 43 000 euros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u51	Mr. Figaredo, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u52	In short, all Spaniards who charge less than 21,000 euros may not pay IRPF. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, in the debate of the budgets we have seen almost everything; we had to see some things and today we have seen some of them, such as seeing how the People's Party sets José LuisRodríguez Zapatero as an example. Well, welcome, because in this country we owe much to President Zapatero, among other issues that we are a better country today and that fight for women's rights on a day as important as the Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Welcome, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And gentlemen of VOX, it's very easy, you're against the public, that's why you're the extreme right, and we're in favour, that's why we're the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It's very easy; it's very easy. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for our country, but, above all, for the people of this country, because the General Budgets of the State for the year 2022 will be approved. For the second time, this Government takes forward budgets with the best instrument to do so. We have given our hand to dialogue, agreement and also to understanding between different people, which is our best way to improve this country, to advance economic and social recovery, to modernise our economy and to ensure the well-being and progress of the Spaniards. That is why the General Budgets of the State were and are so important. That is why it is so important that we get out of here today having done what we had to do: give security, certainty and future to millions of Spaniards who are looking at us and waiting for us out there, ladies and gentlemen. It depends on us that their lives are better, it depends on us that they can find a job, it depends on us that education has sufficient resources to be of quality, because it depends on us that social policy and dependence are that shield for the harsh reality that many people live in solitude and need resources to be able to live with dignity, because it depends on us that public health is that strength to face the pandemic and protect us and care for us equally, because it depends on us, ladies and gentlemen, on these 350 seats of Congress, that we can look to the future with hope and address this just recovery. [[The Lord]] History, ladies and gentlemen, will remember where we were at this moment so important to people's lives. But, in order to develop these budgets, do you also know what is needed? Quality public services, a strong country with its entire network of public enterprises, public entities and public bodies that respond to all shared challenges and make everything work well. It is the public - we lived and suffered last year during the pandemic - who was there to protect us, to guarantee us security, to take care of us when there was nothing else, because the public is the last protection network for those who only have politics, ladies and gentlemen. Because it is the National Geographic Institute that has given certainties in the volcanic crises of La Palma. Because it is the National Center for Oncological Research or the Carlos III National Center that contributes with the talent and ability of so many scientists to bet on science and innovation. Because it is the CDTI that is committed to development and research in our productive and business fabric. Because it is ADIF or Renfe who bet on sustainable mobility, our closeness or preserve our network of railway infrastructure. Because it is AENA that manages our daily network of airports. Because it is the Spanish EFE Agency or Radiotelevision that allows us to inform us rigorously about today. Because it is the network of Ports of the State that guarantees the supply in times of uncertainty in the global supply chains, or Salvamento Marítimo who assists and takes care of the marine security, or companies like Navantia, Paradores or the whole SEPI or institutes like the Incibe who contribute in strategic sectors of our economy. Because it is Post Office that guarantees universal postal service and does a fundamental job in rural areas by giving, for example, this year assistance in financial services where traditional banking no longer arrives, or it is ICO that has made it possible to mobilize billions to guarantee and sustain companies and SMEs in this country in the face of the uncertainty of the crisis, or other bodies and public entities such as CNMV, ICEX or Cofides that ensure the good direction and growth of our economy and our companies. The value of the public, ladies and gentlemen, is irreplaceable no matter how much some want to deny it in this Congress with its noise and distortion, the very ones who know how to enter a church, but do not know how to leave when there is any less democracy there. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of this House, I would like to express sincere thanks to all the employees and public employees of this country, to all the teachers, police, civilian guards, firefighters, judges, prosecutors, teachers, health professionals, social workers, those who worked in SEPE to guarantee the ERTE, those who work in Social Security to help guarantee these decent pensions, those who work in the Labour Inspectorate, those who work in the Tax Agency, the Army, the Military Emergency Unit, all, ladies and gentlemen, who are countries. There is no better way to make a country than to work day by day to improve people's lives, there is no better way to make a country than to believe in it and that we each contribute where we are. That's the best way to make a country, to make a homeland. For all of them and for all of them, there are also these General State Budgets of 2022. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Real investment annex We continue with the real investment annex. Mr Rego Candamil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. In his recent appearance, the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, was saying about my speech on the budget forecasts for investment in Galicia: everything seems to you very little; if for you to go, all the investment would go to Galicia. I was saying this as a criticism, of course, but I have to thank you for the implicit recognition of the role of the BNG in defending Galician interests, the interests of all Galicians and Galicians. Because, you will see, the reality is that our country has been suffering obvious and historical discrimination in terms of investments both by the governments of the People's Party and by the governments of the Socialist Party. And this results in a noticeable deficit in infrastructure, equipment and services, particularly in the field of rail transport: no service of proximity in urban and metropolitan areas, no connections between cities such as Santiago and Lugo, with anachronistic lines such as A Coruña-Lugo or A Coruña-Ferrol, without completing the Atlantic axis, etc. You will boast of the arrival of the AVE in Galicia within a month but, in addition to a delay of almost thirty years on the first date announced by the then Minister of Transport, Abel Caballero -1993- seem to forget or ignore that the main concern of the vast majority of Galicians and Galicians is not to arrive one now before Madrid, but to be able to move every day in their usual movements. That's where the state's policies with Galicia fail dramatically. Therefore, despite the increase in territorialized investment, the BNG values these budgets as better and insufficient, which do not compensate for this historical deficit. In fact, they do not even compensate for the unjustified drop in the 2021 accounts in a context of investment growth in all the autonomous communities, in all but our country, less in Galicia. But neither do the budgets of 2022 serve to tackle the serious industrial crisis in Galicia, nor, at least, to ensure existing economic activity and safeguard employment, let us no longer talk about promoting new activities and job creation. The workers of Alcoa and the population of A Mariña hoped that, this time, the parties of the government - PSOE and Podemos - would show the will to solve the problem through the only solution, a temporary public intervention of the plant. It wasn't like that. Nor, by the way, did the People's Party show it that, even though only ten days ago Feijóo asked Reyes Maroto for public intervention, it voted against our amendment in an exercise of hypocrisy and political juggling that all state political forces share. They say one thing in Galicia, where it would be penalized not to support just social causes, but then do the opposite in Madrid. Unfortunately, repeated behavior in recent decades. Regrettably, the Government did not make an effort to deepen social policies such as raising minimum pensions, as proposed by the BNG, or to move towards fairer and more redistributive fiscal policies and maintain the refusal to repair obvious injustices resulting from an inexplicable comparative aggravation. In Coruña, a city where, by the way, the PSOE governs are pending the Government's decision to compensate with public resources the debt of 200 million euros caused by the works of the external port. We do not even say to condone, as they did with the 400 million euros of the debt of the port of Valencia, hence the comparative aggravation, but to compensate, even in a multiannual plan, shared that allow to transform the lands of the external port to equip the city with new public spaces, equipments and green areas. It is common sense, because what will never accept the BNG is a speculative operation in the land of the port or have to pay again for what is already public. I think in A Coruña they're going to have to give a lot of explanations. In addition to the fact that the initial proposal could be improved because it is insufficient, there was no willingness on the part of the government parties to incorporate initiatives that will improve it, no doubt a disappointing attitude, not so much for the BNG, but especially for its own voters, who will hardly understand the refusal to improve the treatment of our country in the State accounts. In any case, we are not going to give up our efforts, because at the end of the day an increase in funds and investments translates into better services, more employment, better well-being and also greater guarantees of the effective exercise of recognized rights. Look, today is November 25th. For the BNG the fight against macho violence is an absolute priority. Therefore, we incorporated into the investiture agreement the creation of three new gender-based violence courts: in Santiago, Lugo and Ourense. We intend to make it a reality in these budgets, but the Government lacked will and, as I recalled yesterday, in this, rather than the good words, the facts are really important. For all these reasons, the BNG cannot support these budgets and we announce our abstention. In any case, we found that the government parties did not even maintain support for those few BNG proposals on which there appeared to be agreement, in a scarred attitude that I once again imagine will disappoint many of their voters. Why? You'll know. I do not know, gentlemen of the Government, if you think that punishing Galicia punishes or weakens the BNG, I think you are wrong on a plan. The only thing that weakens is the credibility of their parties and their own political and electoral expectations in the face of a disappointed citizenry by finding that what their deputies and deputies are dedicated to justify the ill-treatment of Galicia rather than defending the interests of Galicians and Galicians. And the question I ask you is: what has to happen if this government, which is said to be progressive, starts dealing with a minimum of justice in Galicia? I will tell you this: that the BNG, as already predicted by the polls, will become three, four or five Members of Parliament and that there will be a Galician group that will permanently condition the government's decisions with its votes. Well don't worry, or rather yes, because it will happen, it's just a matter of time, elections by means, because the Galicians and the Galicians are increasingly aware that only the BNG guarantees a coherent defence of Galicia's interests. More and more Galicians know that Galicia is only if the BNG is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u58	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the workers in the metal sector of Cadiz for their struggle for a fairer agreement, a worthy agreement; a struggle that will improve the working conditions of the workers in the metal sector of Cadiz, but which also shows us the need to organize ourselves syndicately and the need to fight for our rights. [[Applauds]] Carlos Marx, who studied capitalism and pointed out its contradictions, pointed out as one of the fundamental precepts, the first precept, to overcome this unjust economic model the need to extend class consciousness. We workers form a social class which have common interests, which needs decent wages and decent working conditions; which also has common interests in the existence of quality public services; which has common interests in the existence of a quality public pension system for when we are not of working age, and we understand that we are struggling, these nine days of strike, also contribute to increasing class awareness. And finally, and ending with Cádiz, I would also ask that no one politically blames the success of the workers - we have seen it in the Parliament of Andalusia and we see it here in Madrid - because the success is solely and exclusively due to the struggle of the workers. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would also like to point out the importance of today's date, 25 November, for our group and to say no to macho violence. We'll be on the street, in the mobilizations next to the feminist movement, fighting this scourge. [[Applauds]] Already entering into budgets, we can understand that these budgets allow us to move towards a fairer country, laying the foundations for reconstruction following the crisis caused by the pandemic, and we are satisfied with what modestly with our thirty-five seats we have been able to achieve for our country to achieve progress that is absolutely necessary. The pandemic has shown us that we have strengths and weaknesses. As a strength, a good public health system has been demonstrated, despite the cuts in recent years. A public health system that protects us and has saved the lives of many Spanish and Spanish people. It is therefore essential to shield the public health system against the privatization and elite model of the right and the right. Spain has one of the highest vaccination rates worldwide. Vaccination has also been carried out from the public, from the State, prioritizing those most vulnerable groups and with objective criteria. It has not been immunized first which has the most resources, but it has been immunized, first of all, those citizens who needed it most. [[Applauds]] But it has also been shown, in addition to the strengths, a number of weaknesses that are also important to review. The pandemic has highlighted the need to develop an industry of our own, an industry with the capacity to produce goods and services needed, and that strategic sectors, for example energy, should be of a public nature. After this crisis we have two possibilities, two exit models. A model, which would have been to deepen the neoliberal policies that have been implemented over the last decade, policies based on social cuts, privatization of public services, dismantling of the state, devaluation of wages, which was what the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms meant, or a second exit, with the priority of changing the course. In this sense we advocate for this second exit with budgets that are expansive, budgets for reconstruction. Reconstruction should not be a return to pre-pandemic normality, but rather a return to a new normal with greater equality, rights and social justice. We are talking about a change in a productive model that addresses the reindustrialization of our country, the challenges arising from the ecological transition and where the State is the guarantor of the redistribution of wealth. The investment chapter envisages a record public investment of EUR 40 billion, an increase of 9.6% annually. The EUR 16 286 million in investment in housing and transport infrastructure should be highlighted; a cumulative increase of more than 80% over the last budgets of the People's Party. They are therefore games that face the necessary modernisation of our road and rail infrastructures, including the increase in the number of transport facilities close to 160 per cent, and that must have continuity and momentum over the next decade to develop conventional communications, those that connect our regions, our municipalities and that fix the population to the territory. In any case, and this is important to us, political action does not end with the approval of the General Budgets of the State. We are still waiting for the Housing Act to lower, set a price and end the abuse of rent. We are also looking forward to a comprehensive tax reform that will improve our progressivity and sufficiency, make more payments for those who have more, and we are also looking forward to repealing and addressing the labour issue. We want to repeal the labour reform of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy, which resulted in a devaluation of wages and a precarious employment in order to improve the working conditions of workers. It is important to stress - and I am finishing because my time is up - that today in these General State Budgets there are no policies of cuts or internal devaluations, as they have occurred in the last decade, and that the path of investment is continuing to overcome the crisis. In this respect, we highlight the substantial increase in scholarship policy, €2.2 billion, including a system of scholarships for candidates for the judicial career with the aim of democratizing their access by increasing resources for vocational training, young rental voucher, cultural voucher. Pensions are also revalued to maintain purchasing power, more resources for the care of older people and others dependent on the business model that we have seen, for example, with the residences in Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u59	Your Honor, you must finish. He's outdone his time by far.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u60	I'm finishing up. More resources for minimum living income, increased family benefits, thermal social bonus and, in general, increased public investment policies to build a more sustainable and fairer model. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez del Real has it. [[Mr President and Mr Sánchez del Real, who has come up to the speaker's rostrum with a box, will exchange a few words.]] Whenever you want, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u62	One question, can you tell me I can't have my documentation on the stand, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u63	Your Honor, begin your intervention...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u64	He told me I can't have my documentation on the stand. Is that what you told me? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u65	Your Honor, start your speech, show what you want to show, and remove it from the atrium, as yesterday also happened with several speakers, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u66	I do not understand this dictatorship when it comes to real investment annexes, which is what we are going to talk about right now. [[Applauds]] You have not even seen the budgets that you present and that are the ones in this box.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u67	Remove the box from the atril, please, if you don't mind. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u68	But if it's the budgets, I'll have to be able to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u69	Take them out and remove the box from the atril.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u70	And if I want to go to page 5, can't I go to page 5 to see what your budget annex says? These are the annexes. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u71	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u72	But it's official documentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u73	No, you don't have the floor. I ask you, for the sake of the House's decorum, to take them out and remove the box, if you don't mind. That's what I asked you to do. [[The Lord]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u74	Your box, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u75	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u76	Thank you very much. Welcome, President of the Kuwait Assembly, welcome to the Spanish National Assembly. I am very pleased that Kuwait is dating back when freedoms such as freedom of expression or women's freedom... [[The President of the Assembly of Kuwait, standing, makes gestures of gratitude]] You are succeeding in entering a democratic system. See how we go here in the opposite direction; we are crossing with you, obviously. Start my intervention. What a week we've been carrying. First of all, we started with the desert of ministers, who then came to talk about their own things, but look at what they are interested in the real investments that none of them are here to defend the investments that really raise a country. Look, the members of the government yelled at us when they came. Did the opposition yell at us...? No, the government has yelled at the opposition! The world upside down; you have shouted at us. I don't know, gentlemen, what your budgets are! In a normal democratic world, more or less, those who raise and raise the voice against budgets are the opposition. But, of course, they scream because they are nervous because they have to defend the indefensible, that these are the budgets of the ETA, with these annexes and all eight other boxes. [[Applauds]] It has been such a situation that we have even applauded a Member of the People's Party. Look, Mr. Odón Elorza, 'I will never forgive you', and I'm sorry for the quote, it's that I'm reading this from the fifty shadows of the People's Party and my papers are mixed up. I'll never forgive him. They know who he is. Speaking of compound surnames, they have kept telling us that we have compound surnames. I am Sánchez del Real, Sánchez for my father, who is not Mr. President, and Del Real for my mother. You make it up that we have compound surnames that we have surnames of our mother and father. By the way, from our mother, who here we respect women as much as to honor her name. [[Applauds]] But above all yesterday, my dear countryman - and I do not say countryman to anyone from Badajoz in this case, but to my dear African countryman, because I am also African, I am Spanish born in Africa, in Ceuta, who is still geographically in Africa and who is Spain - this honourable Member, whom I highly respect, called us Nazis. I understand, dear countryman, that Nazis come from 'national-socialist'; that the Nazis, like you, had the bad habit of entering the countries of others illegally, as you did when you entered Spain illegally; that the Nazis, 'national-socialists' had the bad habit of hitting the old people on the street, as you did shortly after being in Spain and are condemned for it. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] But it is also that the Nazis had the bad habit of reaching agreements with the communists, which is what you do here, and also curiously the Nazis, the 'national socialists' -'national socialists', right - had the bad habit of going to dinner with the murderers. That is also what you do and that is contained in these General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] So thank you very much, African countryman like me, for taking out the magic mirror, which I have turned around and pointed directly at the socialists. Throughout the week we have talked very little about real investment. We have talked a lot about spending... but here they are, although Mr President - how balanced it is, because I cannot tell you that it is unbalanced in time because it would get angry and take away the word - I did not want it to take this out, which is the important part of the budget, are the investment annexes. [[pointing out the books he has left on top of the rostrum]] He invited the mandatory shareholders of this organization, the Spanish, to try to understand the general accounts of the State. By the way, not even with a master of the best Spanish business schools, which we are proud to have, will understand much of what is going on here, but I invite you to do so, because this, which does not even have a minister to defend it, is the part of Spain's future investment and is what we look at from each and every one of the provinces, from Badajoz, from La Palma, from Las Palmas, from Palma, from every one of the sites in Spain is where we look, because this is where the state is present with real investments, real investments; investments, not expenditures, investments that if they are not made can cost lives. [[pointing out the books he has left on top of the rostrum]] Because, for example, when you reduce the investment in the variant of Zafra, in Malpartida de Cáceres, in the doubling of access to Badajoz, it can cost lives, gypsum is increasingly reduced here Or it can mean that a national museum, like that of Roman Art of Merida, sees its investment reduced, because it is here. [[pointing out the books again]] And each of you in your provinces will be looking precisely at this annex that the balanced President of Congress did not want me to show you. But well, that's the way we are, Kuwaiti gentlemen, I'm gone. The important thing is, what is this? They are autonomous bodies, state-owned companies, public entities, businesses and other public bodies of all kinds. This is a dirty snowberg. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Here you go again necessary investments - before we talked about spending - from SEPI to Spanish Television, from UNED to foundations of all kinds that you like so much. An iceberg of frozen expenses in which they live well fresh and in the shade territorial injustice - because there is still territorial injustice - the focus on the unproductive, ridiculous expenses. I could take hundreds of random leaves and find in each and every one of them a ridiculous expense, but also - and most importantly - with a lot of intermediary of those who so much dislike you, a lot of intermediary of different organisms and entities that don't come here to explain; a lot of intermediary and a lot of opacity. And on top of that you are quite clumsy, because in September you had 31.8 % execution; that is, you don't even make the investments that were planned. Now the PSOE deputy who leaves every year will be out in a moment - Caesar, where is he going? That's where it goes -, you can now take out what you already said in a tweet eleven years ago, which will arrive the AVE to Extremadura. No sir, Extremadura is not going to get an AVE, of course not with these investments, it's going to get a little bit of a 110-kilometre-an-hour train. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. What do we need? We need a project for Spain; we need not one in this annex, but all the ministers defending themselves, because these are the real investments that really bring wealth and balance for the whole of Spain. These are investments, the first thing anyone looks at when buying a company or analyzing a company is what they're investing in, and here we're not investing in the future. You know, the only place where there is a degrowth project to remove this iceberg, which is dangerous - this is an iceberg that floats; while Pedro Sánchez is every day with his new favorite, favorite or 'favorite' on the tip of the Titanic looking at the bow, there is an iceberg that is growing more and more and that we have to melt, and that iceberg is called Real Investment Annexes -, and the only party...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u77	Your Honor, your time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u78	There is only one party capable of looking at the whole of Spain and you already know who we are. Thank you very much, Mr President, for everything. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u79	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning. To talk about investments in this budget is to talk about the lie that these accounts represent, it is to talk about the inequality that they generate, it is to talk about the blackmails that this government accesses so as to stay in the post for a few more months. To talk about investments is to talk about the territorial isolation in which many Spaniards live, and among them we, the extremists. Look, the flag of my flap is not a toast to the sun, it's a feeling. We feel Spanish and extremist, by that order. We want our land and the ill-treatment you receive from this government hurts, it's like a direct arrow to the heart. Every time they talk about a fast train between Badajoz and Plasencia and they obvious that beyond Navalmoral there is nothing deeper in isolation. When they talk about investor budgets I look at my partner Carmen Riolobos and ask him for the graph that always teaches them. [[Show a chart]] The investments committed in the Spanish section of the Manchego in the last budgets of the People's Party and those of the PSOE: 372 million against zero; 372 against zero. [[Applauds]] Total isolation, and not all of us are the same, not all of us. I am talking about Extremadura, which is my land and particularly hurts me, as I could speak of so many railway infrastructures forgotten by these budgets, such as the high speed Murcia-Cartagena, Palencia-Cantabria, Zaragoza-Pamplona, Asturias-variante de Pajares, Ourense-Vigo Por Cerdedo. I could tell you many more, but it is that in these budgets they forget the high speed and they also forget the closeness - in Madrid, in Cantabria, in Córdoba, in Seville, in Valencia - or the necessary performances, such as the baipás in Beniel - in Murcia - or the underground in Navalmoral de la Mata, Córdoba, Villena or Valencia. Anyway, we could be here all day talking about infrastructure that we forget, in most cases voluntarily. And where the investments go, the Spanish will ask themselves. No, they're not going to Madrid, which they're punishing with 7.9% less, what's going on! I will tell you what has happened during this budgetary procedure and you will all understand it better. EUR 295 million in investment amendments have been approved during this procedure; 295 million. Do you know how many of these 295 million add up between Extremadura, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Asturias, Galicia, La Rioja, Andalusia, Navarre, Ceuta and Melilla? You know that? Zero! [[Applauds]] Of the 295 million that they have signed with their partners in amendments, zero euros for all these autonomous regions and cities. Look, tomorrow's Black Friday. It really starts in a few hours and it is very significant that the budget is approved on a day like today. First, because it becomes today, therefore, a black Thursday for the Spaniards, with the approval of budgets that are a disaster and that will burden our growth and economic recovery. And, second, because these budgets have been their particular Black Friday, with mega offers for all their partners: with more than 17 million euros for their Teruel partners There is, with more than 97 million euros for their partners in New Canarias, 43 million for PeCAT and Esquerra, with some amendments even with distributed beneficiaries - who will have to explain it to us - more than 13 million for their partners in Compromís, 2 for the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and almost 42 million for their Basque partners. Among them, I want to stop a little more in the 27.8 million agreements with Bildu, beyond the non-economic concessions we still do not know. By the way, speaking of this, will you dare to release the 200 murderers, as Otegi asked you? Look, a lot of things happened here yesterday, but the most serious thing was that, in order to whiten this deal with Bildu, Mr. Elorza told us that we had a coup vocation. Mr. Elorza also called Francoist VOX, the same appellation he dedicated many years ago to my colleague Goyo. History judged them then. To whitewash your deal with Bildu, you don't have to throw up lies and contempt. We're not going to allow it! [[Applauds]] He told us here about his murdered comrades and friends, and nothing about the tributes of those who try to whiten, of their partners in Bildu, of the tributes to the murderers of those comrades. Of course we will continue to talk about ETA, because it has disappeared, yes, but you agree with those who do not condemn the murders of almost a thousand Spaniards! [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, these budgets are those of Bildu, get as they are. And we, in front of that, only have to remember that we are still in the same place: with the victims of terrorism, with their memory, their dignity and justice. In any case, I would just like to say to those who have won the PSOE's budget lottery or the subsequent stone - and it is not because of their illusions - that we have to go to the data: as of 30 September 2021 - according to the IGAE - only 31.8 % of the investments budgeted in 2021 have been implemented. Not only do they cheat on the Spaniards every day, they cheat on you in every budget. They're not going to execute what they've been promised. They're not gonna do it. We are not going to be fooled, and not only because of the 2100 amendments that we have registered that do not approve of us - hear, hear, hear, or a small roundabout, as my colleague Mario Garcés told me the other day - but because we have done what we had to do: offer our alternative to the Spaniards. There was the option that others took not to propose alternatives, but we have it and throughout these 2100 amendments - vetoes and the rest voted against - the alternative plan of my party could be verified. I would like to thank my group, the group leadership and my colleagues here for their outstanding work. [[Applauds]] Presenting 2100 amendments requires visiting many villages, requires knowing your province, requires kicking your area, requires talking to many colleagues. Thank you for your work and your involvement. Presenting 2100 amendments requires a lot of work from our advice and the technical team of the group, whom, on behalf of my colleagues, I would also like to thank for their work. These 2100 amendments are our commitment to Spain: with low taxes, with territorial cohesion, with constitutional values, with effective policies and with the freedom governments that our party represents. These 2100 amendments are the guarantee that the Socialist Government has an alternative, ours, that we are prepared to govern and that we will do so sooner than later. We will continue to work for Spain and for the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u82	Thank you, President. During this legislature, especially when social networks have become more fashionable, it has been very normal for us to see Members coming with souvenirs. We've seen the deputy VOX from Badajoz come up with a box. What did he want? Call attention. The problem is that when we want to draw attention with souvenirs it is because we do not have the capacity to look at our speech and the content, and I believe that here we must have the capacity for our citizens, those who voted for us, to be proud of what we say; to look at what we say and to feel represented. [[applause]] I am proud to represent a province like Cáceres, which this year is going to have a high-speed train - well, the People's Party defined it as a fast train, since it was Ana Pastor's People's Party that said that in 2015 a fast train would arrive to Extremadura and that's the name that the media used, it wasn't us -. Moreover, it is curious to hear the People's Party reproach us here that there are no funds in the Castile-La Mancha part when they were responsible, when it was Íñigo de la Serna who allowed the declaration of environmental impact to expire, when Íñigo de la Serna is responsible for the train not reaching Extremadura in ten years; the People's Party is responsible for this situation, so it is curious that they come here to give us lessons. I have a doubt. Mr Néstor Rego is defined as someone from the left, and I understand as from the left those who defend equality of opportunity. The bird is already arriving in Galicia, and the Socialists are glad that the bird will arrive with a socialist government. But I ask Mr Regó: are the extremists not entitled to it?, are the people of Murcia, Almería, Navarra, Basque Country not entitled to have what others already have? [[Applauds]] If everything always goes to one territory, others will not be able to have the same rights, and I think that's what we have to achieve. These are magnificent budgets for Extremadura, but not just for investment. Extremadura is a land where for its history, for its abandonment for many years, many people, many, earn a minimum wage. When a government - which is usually the socialist government - raises the minimum wage, it benefits thousands and thousands of extremists, so they are big budgets for Extremadura. In the land of Extremadura by many women for many years, even working, no one listed for them, and there are many territories in Spain where they passed the same. When the minimum pension is raised in Extremadura and Spain, it benefits thousands of women who have left their skin for their families, who have left their skin for their land and who have never contributed for them, so they are big budgets. When we talk about investment, what we have to achieve and guarantee is equal opportunities, for all citizens to have the same opportunities. And we have a challenge ahead, because many budgeted games appear - as the People's Party also did - but we have the challenge to execute them, because when the People's Party ruled this country, what it did was not execute those games that we are often told about: expired environmental impact statements, works stopped and, above all, an imbalance between citizens, which is something we cannot afford. Here come many people from the right with the flag or on the bracelet or on the mask, they always teach the flag. But the right has always taught the flag as a bold element against a part of the Spaniards, and I recognize that when the right uses the flag that way I don't feel represented. Socialists also like to use the flag of Spain. Even the Communist Party, which is so criticized in this house, in 1977 taught the flag of Spain as a symbol of union of the Spaniards; this is how we like the socialists, even the communists, to use the flag of Spain, not as a bold element against another part of the Spaniards. [[applause]] Socialists are proud of this country, which is a leader in vaccination; we are proud of this country, which is a leader in vaccine donation; we are proud of this country, which wants to be a leader and reference in renewable energies; we are proud of a country, which, as always, is a cultural reference, and when this country is a reference, this country works together and this country does what it has to do to be a reference country, and socialists are proud. And that contrasts with the attitude of the People's Party, for we have seen Mr Casado, who carries the flag stuck all day long, who goes to Brussels to speak badly of our country, of the Spanish and of the possibilities of our country; I think that is to be unpatriot and I think that is what no one wants in this country, a leader who says he wants to reach the Government of Spain and who puts sticks on the road to prevent this country and the Spanish from benefiting from 140 billion euros. That is why I think we have a radically different concept from what Spain is, what the flag symbolizes and what it symbolizes to defend all Spaniards. Socialists believe that these are good budgets. The Socialists believe that these budgets serve for young people to have a hope for the future, a hope that has been stolen from them for many years. We have a generation of young people who have the perception that they're going to live worse than their parents and that's something we can't afford. These budgets give hope for the future so that young people are clear that they can access decent housing, so it is the budgets that have the record items in investment in housing. And we believe that young people have the right to be certain about the future, because for many years they have not known what is going to happen to them and the only way to guarantee a hopeful future for those generations is to know that they are going to get a decent wage and that they are going to have a future in a different economy, and that is what these budgets do that raise the minimum wage, that they are going to repeal labour reform and that they are going to change the economic model. Because the People's Party we were used to is that it wanted to compete with other countries - with which we believe we have to compete - for low wages and worse working conditions, and we want to do so with innovation. That is the difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I'm finishing up. I am proud of a president who manages to position himself in Europe and gets 140 billion euros for this country. We do not forget when Rajoy went to Brussels and brought cuts, labor reforms, abrogation of pensions and cuts in pensions, and a very black future for this country. How this country has changed when we govern the socialists. How this country has changed and how it will change if we manage to implement these budgets. [[Rumors]] They said that the People's Party aspires and wants to reach the Government of Spain. I very much hope that, for the hope of many people, of pensioners, of young people...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u83	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u84	Yeah, I'm done. ...from regions like Extremadura, they will not arrive in a long time, because it will mean that we can continue to aspire to a better and more balanced country. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u85	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] State income We continue with the debate on State revenue. For the presentation of income, in turn of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group Citizens, Mrs Muñoz Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u86	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this budgetary procedure, which has been - I have already said this - a pantomime and an outrage. A pantomime because they are budgets that have already been agreed with selected partners since last year and that are put on the medal of being the preferred partners of this government; budgets that are not state budgets, but are the budgets of Sánchez, which it only needs to remain in Moncloa. And a blow because they are the veto budgets and the ban on amendments to silence the opposition, even against the lawyers in this House. You know that the liberals are not going to support these accounts, and not just because they are not good for Spain - they cannot be good for Spain a supported accounts or that they are good for Esquerra Republicana and Bildu - but we are not going to support them, of course, because they contain unsupported macro forecasts, because they contain unreal revenues, because they represent an increase in the fiscal pressure for the Spanish, because they generate more inequality and imbalances between the Spanish and the territories and because they are only cosmetic solutions, mere patches, without facing the main and real problems that Spain has. Liberals share the concerns of the Banco de España and the AIReF regarding the level of structural spending that perpetuates these accounts, an expenditure that the revenues that are expected will not be able to cover, thus mortgageing the future of several generations and auguring austerity commitments that will mark the economic agenda, unfortunately, for years. I am sorry to say that I do not say this, says the Banco de España in its last presentation, in which he talked about the revenue item and said that the collection of tax measures will be lower than the initial forecast and that it will have little revenue impact in 2022. The Banco de España also said that the new tax measures will have that little revenue impact because the revenues from these budgets, and therefore the expected revenue, are at serious risk in view of the possible worst performance of the expected economic growth. Instead of following the model of our neighbors like Italy, who have prepared a country plan to reactivate the economy by lowering taxes and social contributions, here we do the opposite, but it is that, moreover, we cheat saying that it is neither that nor that much and that it will only be to the rich. Look, this government makes use of the bad budgetary practices that bipartisanism has accustomed us to: to inflate revenues in an unrealistic way and to promise expenses to adjust it later. These budgets inflate income forecasts at the expense of income tax on workers - who remember that they are the middle class - and business, as well as indirect taxes, harming the middle and working class. This draft budget provides for a tax revenue collection of EUR 232,352 million compared to 215,000 of the advance of the liquidation and the 194 000 collected in 2020. Therefore, the progress that we know and what we collected the previous year predicts that it will be income that will lead us back to non-compliance. The main objective of these budgets is to collect more through corporate tax - 12% more -, through VAT - 10% more -, through excise duties - 8% more - and through income tax - almost 7% more -. As you know, these taxes are only paid by the rich, right? These budgets include the minimum tax of 15% on corporate tax, a tax that will affect a large number of companies in our country, without waiting for that report that the committee of experts will issue in February 2022 for the comprehensive reform of our tax system. But neither have you expected the rest of the G20 countries to impose this tax unilaterally, thus harming our businesses. The expected collection of this tax, of the company tax, amounts to 400 million euros - that is what you reflect in the accounts - but surely you will remain in less since you have left out the minimum tax on foreign dividends of the companies. In addition, you again penalise the savings of pension schemes. These budgets, as they did in 2021, again reduce the reduction limit in the IRPF by contributions. You want to promote only employment pension schemes by punishing private schemes. And while we agree on the desirability of promoting public employment plans, we also believe that it should be promoted and protected from any form of individual savings for the future. You act in a sectarian way in the planning of social welfare by considering workers who contribute as much as they can to a private pension plan to supplement their low pension in the future. You also raise the registration tax, which will, of course, only affect the rich, because, although we managed to curb this tax in last year's budgetary procedure, it will come into force on 1 January, it hurt not only the drivers, those who buy cars, but also the manufacturers, who already know they are rich. The price of light, of course. The rise in VAT on electricity, electricity and electricity is again envisaged, which would mean recovering pre-reduced taxes. Only the rich pay for the light. The rich are also going to pay more taxes on work. The rich are also the small sectors, such as hairdressers, to which you are going to increase VAT. Look, when you vote on these budgets, remember that you are not going to raise taxes on the rich and the powerful, the Ibex, the Amancio or Roig, but on the middle and working classes. Remember that you are going to suffocate even more those you came to rescue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u87	Your Honor, you must finish; your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u88	I'm done, President. Remember this the parties of the people of the village, those who did not want to leave anyone behind, those of 'Spain can', those of'stronger exits'.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u89	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u90	Remember that a nation that tries to prosper on a tax basis is like a man with his feet in a cube trying to get up by pulling his wing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u91	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u92	Very good, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. For the next year, the Government has estimated a growth in non-financial income of 10.8%, to reach the figure of EUR 279 billion. This increase basically addresses three reasons. Firstly, to receive European funds; finally, this is obvious and we have already referred to this chapter profusely throughout these lengthy debates. That is why I am going to focus on the other two elements which explain this increase and which, for some reason, generate an irrepressible shock on the right-wing sides of our country. Secondly, we should mention the expansion of the tax base, as a result of the expected growth of GDP by 2022 and as an extension of the recovery process in which we find ourselves, with growth in domestic demand and wage growth for wage earners. In particular, the aggregate tax base for major taxes is expected to rise to 6% next year. Finally, we must also consider the impact of the regulatory measures adopted in the years 2020 and 2021, which will also have effect in the year 2022 as a result of the application of the cash criterion. They will then conclude, on the one hand, the effects of the measures adopted over the past few years, the impact of which has not yet been completed, and, on the other hand, the reversal of the impact of the temporary measures which were launched at some point in those past years. Among the measures that have not yet completed their effect are those adopted last year; among others, let me mention only a few. On the one hand, the increase in the tax burden on taxpayers with incomes exceeding EUR 200 000 - Mrs Muñoz, with incomes exceeding EUR 200 000 - or the modification of the limit on contributions to social security schemes in the IRPF. Come on, what comes to be a lifelong strengthening of the progressive nature of our tax system, as stated in article 31 of our Constitution; you know, it is that supreme norm which, in addition to being a touch that the right-wings have turned into a bold weapon - as they have again demonstrated today, by the way - contains a number of rights and obligations. Any day, when you get tired of arming the catapult, you will discover, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that that projectile contains a text within it that should be looked at from time to time, especially because you will discover what measures implemented in these budgets - such as the limitation on the exemption of dividends and capital gains in corporation tax or increases in insurance premium tax - respond precisely to these constitutional principles. On the other hand, the new taxes on financial transactions and on certain digital services either shift part of their effects to 2022 revenues by the gap between the deposit and the cashier, or it will end when the annual liquidations for the financial year 2021 are presented. As regards temporary measures which will reverse their effects, particular emphasis is placed on the reduction of the rate to 10 % in electricity VAT. Mrs Muñoz, I quote you again, because it seems to me that what you have said before simply does not correspond to reality. It also highlighted the reduction in the rate of excise duty on electricity and the abolition in 2022 of the general reduction applicable to the calculation of income in objective estimates, which was in effect only in 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. Finally, these budgets reflect fiscal benefits substantially higher than those recorded last year, in particular EUR 41.9 billion, which is 9.7% more than 2021, which not only demonstrates the Government's effective willingness to improve fiscal justice, but also reinforces the sense of economic recovery in which we are immersed. Finally, I would like to refer to some elements that the revenue policy reflected in this bill does not contain. The omissions to which I refer are tax policies that are to be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministry has certainly referred the debate on tax reform to next year. We would have preferred to advance the same, but, as loyal partners we have intended to be, we accept the times marked by the ministry and defend its leading role in this matter. However, we humbly understand that there are fiscal measures outside that debate, and they are for the simple reason that they have already been discussed, agreed and embodied in a co-government agreement between the Socialist Party and us. I am referring specifically to the enlargement of the lists of products with reduced and super-reduced VAT rates in veterinary services and women's hygiene products; a list, by the way, which we have already expressed in favour of adding hairdressing services, a sector which is highly penalized by the crisis, highly feminized and to which Mr Montoro - Mrs Muñoz, remember, was Mr Montoro - unfairly lowered from this list in 2012. In Unity We have always insisted on the relevance of such measures for several reasons. The first of these is, of course, to strengthen the proportionality of the tax system and thereby achieve higher social justice rates. But there is a second reason not less than to deny the right and its demagogic and easy argument that the left raises taxes. I think that our answer should be produced by completing and correcting the same sentence: we raise taxes, yes, to those who have the most, to lower it to those who have the least. And to move from saying to fact, nothing better than affecting indirect tax by antonomasia, VAT, and doing so in the sense of minimizing the regressive effect with which indirect taxation usually operates, i.e. applying a whole range of differentiated rates that responds to the long economic and sociological distance between the consumption of basic products and the consumption of sumptuous goods. This logic is still incipient in our fiscal architecture and we trust that it will be strengthened in the reform announced next year by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, as my group's spokesman on these budget lines, I would like to take advantage of my last speech to thank and congratulate Minister Montero and her team for the enormous work they have done. I trust that this bill will be passed by a large majority, who would not have been able to arm themselves without the dedicated and patient work of people like Carlos Moreno. It has also been dedicated to the work of my group colleagues and I would like to thank you, as has the work of all the members of the Committee on Budgets, who have already been trained at these marathon sessions with a previous marathon in the Prim room last week. Anyway, if it's true that the rub makes the love, we can almost boast of having held a hippie festival these days. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the services of the House, ushers, shorthands and lawyers for their fundamental support. Nor do I want to forget the companions who at the bar care for us Christianly by feeding the hungry and drinking the thirsty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have been listening to socialists and'socialists' in this rostrum since Monday - I say this in their inclusive language so that they understand me - about spending billions of euros and, at the same time, we perceive how they refuse to mention how they will finance these scandalous amounts of money they intend to spend. [[applause]] They do not want to pronounce themselves because they know - and they know - that all this will be paid out of the pocket of the Spaniards. What is clear is that, although for you and the public money is no one's, it is, it owns: it is the one that is collected from the efforts of the Spanish workers, self-employed and SMEs. [[Applauds]] That's the state's income. Therefore, when you set the budgets you must be careful and careful in establishing how much you intend to cut out of the pocket of the Spaniards, because that is the figure you will be able to spend; although we already know that you do not put the limit there either, because if you do not have enough, you will resort to debt to Spain to infinity to then hang the closed sign by down. They're going to leave our dear Spain like a sunbed. [[Applauds]] The revenues that reflect these and all the budgets that historically make the left are built from the disproportionate amount of spending, and since paper stands for everything, the Government, first of all, establishes what it wants to spend and, from there, invents what it needs to enter. That's easy, isn't it? Do you in your homes do your budget, thinking about what you would like to spend or what you can afford to spend according to the income you actually receive? The second option. Isn't that right? [[Applauds]] But this high-handed and lying government intends to spend over and above our possibilities - for what is of interest to them, of course - on sucking the effort of those who generate resources, impoverishing the system and curbing economic growth. These are therefore the general budgets of the Government. They are perfectly designed to benefit this government and its separatist hinges for the misfortune of the Spaniards. A government that will be able to treasure titles and some academic formation, but that in the vast majority of cases and 'houses' of experience beyond the political industry, that has stepped little on the street throughout its working life - the one that has it - which means that they have a distorted vision of reality. [[Applauds]] The worst thing about these budgets is that they believe them themselves. There's no greater absurdity than cheating on the lonely and fighting your own conscience when you know it's all a lie. And it's that the lie is the corporate principle of Sánchez's government, that he lies to himself. The Spanish already know that today is another day in the advance towards the ruin of our beloved Spain, because the government believes that by putting in a role that the economy is going to grow 6.5% in 2021 and 7% in 2022 this is going to be fulfilled, because the minister of anti-economic affairs is worth it, because it says it and points out. Time puts everyone in their place, and they've already put them in theirs. They are the first to lie boldly and the last to correct the forecasts, because the forecasts of growth and collection they invented for 2021 are not being fulfilled and yet they still do not fall from the donkey and do not rectify. Nor will their unlikely expectations be met by 2022. But I don't say it, the evidence and the data say it. This is what the main study services of public, private, national and supranational institutions say, and so are the unemployment figures; figures that you make up with public jobs, which you are the only ones who know how to create, and of advisors and friends, no longer speak. The political industry continues to grow and the productive industry is falling into stalemate, but its government propaganda spreads that we are going to have huge growth, because, of course, this government needs to deploy its ideological and globalist agenda at any price, even that of selling and betraying Spain, to then say that they use the resources extracted from the pocket of the Spaniards in their favorite word: social spending. [[applause]] Let's take a look. If you do your job well, the expenditure you call social should be less and less, because that would show that citizens are progressively living better and need less of the solidarity of others to move forward, but, on the contrary, you presume from budgets with greater social spending, that is, budgets to meet more and more people with fewer resources and less chance of being self-sufficient. [[Applauds]] Presuming to have to rescue more Spaniards from poverty and misery every year seems a triumph when it is the greatest defeat a country can suffer. And you confuse the terms. Look, I'll give you an example. You believe that because you grant a family 400 euros of help, you already solve the month or life. Well, no. Look, at the same cost for the era, for the public coffers, if you apply this by reducing social contributions or taxes to a SME or self-employed person, it would be more efficient, because the self-employed person would hire that person, pay him a decent salary and that person would enter the labour market and not entail a higher cost to the State, with a substantial improvement in the life of that person, which would also consume more and spend more and the State would collect more for direct and indirect taxes; that is, all positive. The second economy lesson is also the gift, the third one I'm already going to collect. [[Applauds]] But you remain blinded by your ideological sales and partisan and globalist interests and deepen your collective and victimization of society. [[The lady]] They always play dirty with lies and confrontation, rich and poor, men and women, good and bad, and that is their strategy to pass their laws and budgets, but the Spaniards care about the bill of light, reach the end of the month and have a decent salary. You get a revenue from facing, yes, facing the Spaniards, but the chollo is going to end you, because people with a sense of state and common sense that we have been working for many years in the real world are here to provide solutions and that the Spaniards can live in peace and harmony, because VOX's only intention is to get Spain out of the moral misery and economic ruin that you are causing. So leave and let the Spaniards prosper and, as we say, do not bother, progress. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I am addressing Mr Rego, Member of the BNG. If these budgets are bad for Galicia, we vote no to these budgets as the People's Parliamentary Group does. [[Applauds]] With regard to the Alcoa amendment that you quoted, my group voted that not because you requested the nationalization of that company and we are against it. We have tabled an amendment calling for temporary intervention. Mr. Pray, please don't lie here and don't lie to the Galicians. [[Applauds]] If I may, too, my group must regret that today, 25 November, this House cannot pay tribute to the victims of gender-based violence for the closure of a political group. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are talking about victims; do not fall into the trap on the left of distinguishing between good and bad victims. [[Applauds]] With regard to income - which I was already talking about income - we again find that you only know a formula for increasing income: raising taxes. And now they have also discovered inflation, which is another way of raising taxes, especially, Mr Guijarro, to the most disadvantaged. And this is going to help you make up your income. That is why they are so comfortable with an inflation of 5.4%, the highest in the last thirty years; an inflation that will cost us this year of the order of 20 billion euros, reducing the purchasing power of the families and increasing the costs of the companies. In other words, Sánchez intends to make up the accounts at the cost of impoverishing all the Spaniards. No more generating more economic activity, no word of generating more dynamism in our economy, no more spending efficiency, more investment, more employment, or expanding tax bases that guarantee higher incomes, nothing, just rising taxes and a lot of inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets that bring us are those of sanchismo, that is true, and therefore it combines all the characteristics of its way of doing politics: lies, pride and incompetence. Lies are more than obvious; in fact, no one believes their budgets, no one. You won't be surprised, because the truth is that no one believes Mr. Sanchez anymore. Even its parliamentary partners do not create these budgets, and that is why they must be ashamed to come up here to defend Sanchez's story and will only be concerned with defending the account they are going to charge for supporting this pantomime in the form of a budget. They'll do it at the next point. Sánchez presumes a quick exit, and the truth is that we will be the last to get out of this crisis, the last. They assume social shield and fair recovery while six million Spaniards are in a situation of severe poverty and inequality is firing. Ladies and gentlemen, Sánchez condemns a Spaniard to severe poverty for every minute he is in Moncloa, and I have been speaking since 2018. Pure socialism. They are the budgets of lying and also of pride. Their pride even prevents them from discussing the alternative to their disgovernment. They say they are betting on dialogue, they have said it here today, and yet they have not called us to negotiate a single amendment, not even one. Another lie and, moreover, full of pride. For the first time in democratic history Sánchez vetoes hundreds of amendments against the approach of the Commission's lawyers. That is the difference with other vetoes, ladies and gentlemen, which now Sánchez, for the first time in history, vetoes amendments against the judgement of the lawyers of this House. Unusual, ladies and gentlemen. You have become accustomed to violating the constitutional rights of Members and the rest of the Spaniards. They have already done so with the state of alarm on two occasions and with the closure of Congress. The Supreme Court has had to propose a sound slap for refusing to execute a sentence, and now they refuse to enforce another Supreme Court decision to guarantee Spanish education in Catalonia. What will be next, ladies and gentlemen? To approve the General Budgets of the State by royal decree? They have other alternatives that they don't even want to discuss; they have been doing so since 2018. Sánchez has decided that with the parties that defend the general interest nothing can be agreed. Sánchez has decided that the best thing for him is to agree with those who want to weaken Spain, with those who believe that there must be Spanish first and Spanish second. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments demonstrate the model of the People's Party: lowering taxes and reducing waste and waste. Up to EUR 10 billion could be reduced in taxes immediately if we rationalize public spending. I already know that this produces hives for you, but it is possible, and if not, ask Minister Escrivá, who recommended it while running the AIReF; it is true that he changed his mind when he entered Mr Sánchez's orders. That's the PP model, lowering taxes and good management, as we do in Galicia, Andalusia, Murcia, Castile and León and Madrid. It's a model that works. That is why you are preventing your debate, and that is why you are abusing the veto on our amendments. But pride and lies are not exclusive to Sanchez and his disgovernment, no. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, practice them enthusiastically, as we have seen these days. Get down on the street, the Socialist spokesman said on Tuesday. I do not know very well whether it refers to the strike in A Mariña, to the protests in the motor sector, the officials, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the hairdressers, the farmers and cattle farmers or the transport sector; today justice officials have just joined. If you prefer, we can go to a market to see what the real Spain thinks of the rise of the shopping basket, or the queues of hunger that have multiplied. We are leaders in growth in the European Union, they say, and the reality is that we are not even among the top ten, as the European Union itself certifies. We have not raised taxes, they said without blushing, while the yellow book of budgets talks about raising 8 billion more thanks to tax increases between 2021 and 2022. They claim that consumption is growing robustly, and in the last quarter it has contracted 0.3%, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. I ask you, are these budgets so bad that they have to lie systematically to defend them? How bad are you or is it custom and the Spaniards can't expect anything else from you except lies and more lies? They are the budgets of lying, of pride and also of incompetence, because they do not solve the problems of the Spaniards, but aggravate them. Spain's main problems are unemployment and debt, and you say in your own budget that we end 2022 with more debt and more unemployment than in 2019. Take a look at the macro frame and stop lying, please. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the government gave everything to European solidarity, to European funds, but it is the European Union itself - not only the People's Party, but the European Union itself - that distrusts the capacity of this government to manage European funds. Do not doubt Spain, doubt your capacity, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know whether they have been able to listen to the Director-General of the European Commission, but he complained bitterly and said - I quote textually - that Spain, in a very unfortunate way, beyond what is understandable, delays the implementation of projects linked to the structural funds, and that it should be ashamed to say - that the Sánchez Government, its twenty-two ministers and one thousand two hundred advisers - and I quote textually - are incapable of doing two things at once.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u97	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u98	Yeah, yeah, I'm finishing up, president. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union is talking about Spain in this way. It is a pity that the European Union is talking this way about the Government of Spain. Look at the difference. A week ago exactly the European Union congratulated the Galician Government, Mr Feijóo's Government, on the implementation of European funds. In short, they are the budgets of sanchismo; they are lies, they are loaded with pride and they prove an absolute inability to solve the problems of the Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u99	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u100	Yeah, five seconds, president. If these budgets reflect all the wishes of those who want to weaken Spain, the result cannot be other than a weaker Spain, and the responsible one will be Pedro Sánchez. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u101	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u102	Thank you very much and good morning. Let me first of all wish Mrs Nogueras, who is not here, and I miss her, because there would have been a very cool picture next to Casado, Abascal and Arrimadas today voting no to these budgets. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, remember Mr Abascal, whom we only see here for seven and a half minutes a month, the two and a half minutes he has on Wednesdays to ask a question. Three questions a month. [[Applauds]] Don't you think it's too expensive for us citizens to pay Mr. Abascal his salary? Mr Abascal will be used to the chiringuitos he has always had; I hope, Mr Figaredo, that at least I paid the IRPF. [[applause]] It is curious that neither the right nor the right have read the press today, but it is not interesting today. Today it is not interesting to read either the national press or the international press, or Bloomberg, nothing, today nothing. Why doesn't it matter? It is not interesting today because the European Commission welcomes and supports the general draft state budgets of 2021. [[Applauds]] They like that we have followed their advice, they like the investment, they like the reduction of spending, but today it is not interesting to talk about what the press collects. Do you know why you don't care, Mrs. Muñoz, about Citizens, and gentlemen of the People's Party? Today it does not matter why the European Commission takes out the red card, the red card, to Mr Mario Draghi. Two months of hearing that we had to follow Mr Mario Draghi's advice and today the European Commission is drawing a red card for its tax reduction plan. It's not an example to follow. Tell us, if you do not agree with the recommendations with Mr Draghi, if you do not agree with his recommendations with Mr Sarkozy, if you do not agree with his prediction of vaccination - that it would take us four years to vaccinate the Spanish population - if you did not agree with the European funds and did not agree when you said that we would not be able to have a budget for the year 2022, tell us all why now we have to believe them, why now we have to believe in their predictions. We're talking about the income chart. Not one has been left; they say we've raised all incomes. I do not know what yellow book they have consulted; surely they have consulted the one of the year 2012, which they keep as a treasure, because in this yellow book, we have been telling you for two months, there are no tax increases. [[applause]] Has it not occurred to you that, as the economy grows, activity recovers and Spain is recovering, perhaps the revenues that you have seen grow were the result of the economic dynamics that this country is experiencing? Haven't you thought of that? No, that's not, that's not in Genoa's argument, it's just that we raise taxes. Are we in recovery, yes or no? Does the economy grow over last year, yes or no? Is it generating employment, yes or no? Does social security membership increase, yes or no? Well, if everything is yes, why do you insist on no? [[Applauds]] They insist on no because it comes out in Genoa's argumentary. Always following Genoa's arguments, he has drawn our attention - especially to me - that in neither of his speeches nor in any of his amendments have defended what his leader Pablo Casado says. We've been talking about the Ministry of Agriculture a lot these days. No amendment - believe me, and my fellow Members know that I have looked at them all - nor has any spokesman defended the thesis of supporting farmers who get up at five o'clock in the morning to milk, none. Transitional Ministry: I have not heard the spokesman or seen any amendments defending some proposal so that the sun in Spain will not go out at eight o'clock in the afternoon. Or in the Ministry of Culture: no spokesman has defended the Mallorcan, nor the Menorcan, nor the Ibicenque, nor the Fermenté, that yes, attack the Catalan, yes; we will attack everything we can because that does come out in Genoa's argumentary. It sounds like science fiction what I'm telling you, but it's reality. But I also say to you, yes, that in some ministries we have heard your proposals, which come to you from Genoa. At the Ministry of Finance we were told they had a plan B. In the Ministry of Democratic Memory they have tried to pass from points as they have been able on the serious events, Mr. Garcés, serious - not random or minor issues, serious - that passed on November 20, because in this country on November 20 only two things can be celebrated, or freedom to leave behind a black, grey stage, of the history of our country, or the repression that you yearn for and pray for. [[Applauds]] You speak of freedom, but yearn for repression; you sell freedom and yearn for repression. Chatter shop. We will never be found by chance in such acts. [[Applauds]] I remind you that today is 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, yes, against women, and today I hope that you will come to all the events, demonstrations and rallies that are going to take place and not by chance. Finally, I look at the progressive Members, the left-wing groups that support these budgets. Thank you for understanding that citizens expect work, effort and understanding from us. That in the face of disrespect, they find this work; that in the face of the screams they find us united seeking solutions to improve life in the year 2022, and in the face of that Spain of hopelessness, we can offer a better future. To my group, thank you for your trust and let us all feel proud and proud of the work we have done these days. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Statement of reasons Finally, there is the debate in the preamble. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u104	He gave up the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u105	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I therefore give the floor to the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u106	Thank you, President. Today is the day against macho violence. In the Catalan countries, twenty-seven women have already been killed, and let me tell you that they are murdered, not killed, as sometimes some press headlines pick up, and neither is it the fruit of madmen. [[rumors]] They're murdered women... [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I don't know if they're very concerned about this macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u107	Mrs. Vehi, wait a minute, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u108	Thank you so much. He said that they are murdered women, that they are not dead women and that it is not the fruit of men who are crazy. They are women murdered by a patriarchal system that we maintain among all and among all and in which the lords are privileged part. So, for a future where women can be free, please educate their children, don't tell the girls to watch when they leave the house. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I am now focusing on the subject we are dealing with, that of budgets. As you will know... [[Rumors.-Pause]] Thank you. As you will know, the CUP considers that the budgets of the Spanish Government neither resolve climate issues nor redistribute wealth with the necessary depth nor accept democratic demands in national terms. But is the role of the CUP useful? We think that in politics we have to ask ourselves repeatedly whether things are useful. Well, other parties, Catalans, Valencians and the Isles, have other strategies. I'm going to focus first on Catalonia. Republican Left for the budgets of this 2022 we think it has achieved a good agreement: protection of Catalan on audiovisual platforms, start the transfer of closeness and increase investment in Catalonia up to 19%. They seem to us to be very important issues. On the same day, however, on the announcement of Esquerra's support for the budgets, the Supreme Court decided to make public the ruling charged with linguistic immersion in Catalonia, contrary to the Celaá Law. Some will say that it is the low do, that we do not have to be led by the attack of the judiciary on a progressive government. It is a pity that this argument loses strength eight days after two extreme right-wing judges are voted in this same House for the Constitutional Court with the votes of the PSOE, the PP and Podemos. [[Rumors]] The rulings of the high judiciary are not alien to Congress or the main parties of bipartisanism or the Government. Therefore, the first conclusion: it is not much use to agree with this Government if then the judiciary does the dirty work. Another strategy, that of Junts per Catalunya, very belligerent, very independent in his speeches, but then his representatives of the Catalan government agree with the ministers of the PSOE the expansion of the airport and his deputies make statements in support of the Barcelona World and the Winter Games. Nor does it seem to us to be a good strategy to extend lifelongsociety. If we are located throughout the national territory and talk about the strategy of Compromís or Més, which is also to approve the budgets of this government, we will see that, by the middle of 2021, the previous budgets had only been implemented in Catalonia a little more than 13%, in the Islands more or less 37% and in the Valencià country a little more than 16%. Doesn't look like it's any use to us either. Others will say that the CUP strategy does not work either and that we do not have the strength to raise the issue. Therefore, the next question is: Is there an alternative? We think so. And we also think that the alternative is a matter of democratic survival, because seeing the behavior of the high judiciary, seeing the pact of the renewal of the Constitutional Court or seeing what the Ministry of the Interior is doing with the workers in Cadiz, the best thing we can do is to build an alternative. Because if this is the best government possible in this Spain, which surely is, independence is essential. We think that the alternative has to be built even if it poses a risk. It's a slightly more risky policy than playing PSOE crutch. And why take this risk? Because if the best government that can have Spain makes right-wing economic policies - Mrs Calviño could be quietly minister of the People's Party - in the area of justice - it seems that the State Attorney General is accused in one of the strongest corruption cases in Spain - or in the matter of the interior - Mr Marlaska continues to suppress dissent - what will happen in the next elections is that he will win the right, because people do not vote the repetition, votes the original. Therefore, the useful policy in Madrid is to protect our people from big corporations and from a state policy that systematically squanders national rights, because the PSOE is not going to give its arm to twist on state issues, and we all know that. And I'm done. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u109	Mrs Vehi, I ask you, please, to continue your intervention so that we can all understand it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u110	We have heard chatter on Spanish public radio laughing at the use of Catalan. You know what? Laughing at the weak is not a transformative mood. Transforming humor is up and, if not, why does the President of Congress cut me off when I speak in Catalan but the Bureau doesn't cut the VOX representative when she says racist things to the MP of the PSOE? [[Applauds]] Making humor against power is up and not down, because if they make humor down, what they're doing is supporting power. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u112	Egun on. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, today the budgets for the year 2022 will also be approved by the decision that the Basque and Catalan independenceist left-wings have taken to keep the window of opportunity that we opened two years ago open. We have reached good agreements that improve the lives of Basques and Basques, Catalans and State workers, and we welcome that. We welcome the fact that we have again shown that when the Basque and Catalan independenceist left-wings walk together we can make great progress for our societies. Our union and joint work is the guarantee that our peoples, our nations, will advance in terms of social justice, economic improvement and political solutions. And we welcome the fact that this joint road also serves to improve the lives of the social majorities of the State. But it seems that this is too much for some. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, we know that today is a good day for you: the Socialcommunist Government has budgets thanks to Euskal Herria Bildu and ERC; the workers of Cadiz have shown that the strike and the workers' struggle serve, and much, to win rights, and, if it were little, today the streets will be filled with feminist women denouncing macho violence. Definitely not a good day for you. We've been putting up with their insults, their lies, your slanders and their false accusations all week. You've been barking and screaming all week in this rostrum and out of it. They will be at ease by saying barbarities impregnated with the purest hatred. And you know what? That brings us satisfaction, because it strengthens us to see them so upset, so angry, so angry and so powerless, because this means that we are moving forward, that while their authoritarian project weakens our sovereign leftist project takes more and more strength, as we saw last Saturday in the streets of Bilbao, which were filled with people. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the far right and the far right, do you really know what these independenceist demons we have agreed on in these budgets? Prohibit evictions for vulnerable families and compensate victims of asbestos. Protect people, that's what we've agreed and that's what we've achieved. That's why you're so so sorry. And what have you achieved? Nothing, zero potato, as they say in my country. That is what really bothers you, that the citizens regain the rights that you have taken away from them and that, moreover, they do so by the hand of the independent left. That's why they're so pissed off. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the evil independenceists, the abject and despicable independenceists, we have come to recover what you have destroyed. It is we, the billionaires, as you like to call us, who give back to the working class the rights you have usurped. It is we, yes, the left-wing independenceists, who work to protect and expand the rights of citizens, Basque citizens, Catalan citizens and also Spanish popular classes. Because you, so filled with national fervor, do what you do is to defend the powers of this state vigorously, but you do absolutely nothing in favour of the working people. That's right, they defend the most outspoken judges, the police who beat up workers, the military who dream of shooting them, and the 1st. [[corrupt monarchy that steals mercilessly]] [[Rumors]] They defend all of them with passion as they despise, humiliate, insecure and condemn their own citizenship to misery. This is all you have to offer. Therefore, I understand and understand that you are so angry, because it must be hard, very hard, for you people to see that, while the evil independenceists, the billionaires, as you say, the enemies of Spain, as you say, are the ones who improve your lives, you, the so Spanish, the very Spanish, the most Spanish, are only dedicated to screaming and insulting. That also differentiates us, ladies and gentlemen of the right. We differ that we work to build a Basque republic of free and equal, committed and supportive of the rights of the working class, and you strive to maintain a state bent on the interests of the elites and guided by a 2. [[corrupt monarchy]] They sound past, but they sound past also - decadent past - the two deputies of VOX Navarra - are not here, it is a pity - that they say that being able to see ETB3 throughout Navarra is an insult to any Navarra. Do you know what an insult to shipwrecks and shipwrecks is? May you be so ignorant and uneducated as to criticize that all boys and girls can see cartoons in Navarra's own language, the Navarrorum language. [[Applauds]] The rest of his colleagues are presumed to be ignorant, but they - Mr Sayas and Mr Adanero, who are not - could be asked for a minimum of rigour. We know that for Mr Sayas and Mr Adanero that the children of Navarre see The Maya and Doraemon bee in Basque is a real indoctrination hazard in the hands of the Basque nationalists. Believe me, we do not intend to indoctrinate anyone, but to offer the opportunity for them to enjoy, grow and entertain themselves in Basque. [[rumors]] Recapacitate and abandon the trenches, because Navarra citizenship has advanced... [[applause]] [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u113	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u114	...and you're still anchored in the past. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, if the right is anchored in the past, you must bet decisively on opening up the future. That's why we tell them many times that... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u115	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u116	... it is not enough to look different to the right, you have to be - immediately finish - and act different to them in all areas. This government has two years ahead in which it will have to respond to major social challenges: the repeal of the reform... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u117	Quiet, please. Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u118	... labor, without euphemisms; the end of the law gags - term already, thanks - without excuses; tax reform, fair and without fear of the employer, or the law of memory, without impunity or commitments that... [[Rumors and Protests]] 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Aizpurua, but your time is up. [[Applauds]] The House's decorum is to respect the constitutional institutions and bodies and, therefore, those offensive expressions are not to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I want to start with a preface addressed to the gentlemen of VOX, andalusian Sanchez crutches. Look, I'm Andalusian and it seems to me that you don't quite understand what you mean for an Andalusian thirty-seven years of socialism. Nor does it seem that you want to approve the budgets of the Madrid Community, now that you are saying that Ayuso is no longer dependent on Genoa, but is now dependent on you. Finally, I would have liked to see Mr Sánchez here today after these four days of discussion, although I am very grateful, of course, for at least four people sitting on the blue bench. I imagine that Mr Sánchez, instead of being here talking about the subjects we have been talking about during these intense four days, would like much more to be sitting in the dark room, where, as Mr Rufián once said from this rostrum, funny things happen. I imagine that Mr Sánchez, Mr Rufián and Mr Otegui will have been sitting in that dark room, in that discretion of the dark rooms, and that is why they did not want to be here intervening and only wanted to do so in the final moment. Because Pedro Sánchez, what does healing, depopulation and this kind of thing matter? What does Section 30, which refers to equality between Spaniards, matter, for example, to the Republican Left of Catalonia? Or what do the gentlemen of Bildu care about section 13 of justice; the victims of terrorism, for example? They don't care at all. Mr. Elorza, I am addressing you now. I thought I'd tell you something, but, of course, it's that, after listening to Mrs. Aizpurua, you don't have the shame of pampering Mrs. Aizpurua and Mr. Otegi? Doesn't he really fall for shame? [[Applauds]] But they also do it because they want to. Last year we liberals demonstrated, as a mathematical theorem, that they do it because they choose it freely. We are presenting an amendment to the whole as a demonstration, also a palm, that if these budgets like Otegi, Rufián and Junqueras are bad. This is an indisputable truth. But it is that this began, moreover, with the assignments to United We can of a housing law that intervened the prices of the rent, that two weeks before Mrs. Calviño said that it was a pernicious measure, and was right, it was a pernicious measure, but it had to be yielded in order to remain in the Moncloa. These are budgets where the accounts do not fit, and, Mrs Mínguez, do not really come here to tell us something that says Brussels. Brussels says that the budget has no technical deficiencies. It also says that we are in the bloc of twelve countries with the greatest macroeconomic imbalances due to excessive debt, excessive unemployment, excessive corporate indebtedness and potential toxic financial assets. [[Applauds]] It compares us to Slovakia for a contractive rather than an expansive fiscal policy. And you want to have the backing of Europe? Look, the AIReF endorsement, do you know what budgets they have? Those of the Community of Castile and León, where it governs Citizens. And it's that, besides, they have the gutter to say they don't raise taxes. There is no collective in Spain that is free from its rise in taxes and, above all, we are forbidden to lower VAT on light, tourism, hairdressers or veterinary services. In Andalusia, with those budgets that VOX did not like, and in Castile and León taxes are lowered. And above are the territorial privileges, but the high speed still does not reach Extremadura, still does not reach the Mediterranean and cantabrian corridor or still does not reach from Portugal to Seville. And finally, we find that improper social security expenses are attributed and the Basque coupon is not emphasized. The usual privileges. Look, we thought they were the worst budgets for Spain, and I recognize one thing, that we are wrong, because after the vetoes and the amendments you have managed to make them worse. Congratulations. It seemed impossible to make worse budgets, but today we have even worse budgets than the draft budgets were. You have already established a marriage, I imagine that with indefinite character, with Unidad Podemos, with Bildu, with Esquerra and with the PNV, a yes I want, which is the one I don't want to Spain. They are heartless and soulless budgets, heartless and heartless budgets. Today you will die in Spain for suicide eleven citizens, while you celebrate the rise of the government's salary. Today there will be families who will suffer and there will be patients with chronic pain, while you think about what friends you are going to hire from advisors. Today, the victims of thalidomide do not find a just solution, but the Ministry of Equality doubles its staff costs. Today the patients of ELA will not be able to live in dignity, but the trade unions will find themselves covered with 100 million euros, the same 100 million euros. And it is you who are called progressives. They are called ecologists and, however, do not want the solar plan nor do they want the deduction of the purchase of low-emission vehicles. I believe that you do believe in sustainable growth: in the sustainable growth of independence in Spain. In that growth they do believe. Your government wants to be modern, very cool, yet they don't want the 3% investment in science, as we did in Castile and León's budget. You don't want Seneca scholarships so our young people can study at any Spanish university. What you want is a nineteenth-century institution, which is the Basque quota. That's how they want her. And they say they're the public defenders. Mr Casares, with his brilliant oratory - I say it from the heart - has quoted that defense of the public. Look, Mr Casares, it is not only words that are needed, but, in addition to defending it publicly, we have to deal with the military of employment, troops and navy, we have to accept the complement of the military, we need the equalization of the salary of the State Security Forces and Bodies or we need the real retributive dignity of the public servants. And you know what I tell you? Don't come to me, Mrs. Aizpurua, saying this is a matter of cartoons. Don't tell me this is watching movies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u121	Sir, Bal, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u122	... in Catalan - finished already, president - on the platforms. No, this is that you have the power over forty-seven million Spaniards, with pardoned coupsmen, with close-knit prisoners, denying 25% of the teaching in Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u123	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u124	You Socialists will never find us if you persist in the idea that this country governs Esquerra and Bildu. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u125	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u126	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, members of the government. Let me start with what seems to be the beginning of good news: there is a pre-agreement in the general metal strike in Cadiz for workers to recover rights. It is still to be ratified at workers' assemblies. [[Rumors]] And while it is true that we must ensure and that the Government must ensure that the agreements signed are complied with, because the best agreement, if it is not complied with, is a wet paper, it is also good news and shows that the struggle serves. We don't have a lot of examples like that on a day-to-day basis. What we have in the day to day are examples - and some are committed to extending them - of cynicism, apathy, demobilization and defeatism, examples that strikes serve nothing, that protesting is something of another time, that they are archaic things. For the workers of Cadiz it is very possible that they will live a little better, because they have dared to fight and have dared to win, and this is a very important message that must be launched, also those who have already won in Tubacex, those who won with the Union of Tenants in Madrid very recently and those who today are fighting in the cleaning strike of Castellón or in the Pilkington strike in Sagunto. The Cadiz workers have learned that they can win and, in my view, the Government must also draw lessons from this conflict, as it would not be a good lesson to take as if an exceptional thing had happened. First, the Government must bear in mind that Delphi, Airbus, Altadis have already disappeared from the Bay of Cadiz and that workers cannot live on improvisation to see if they get a load of work. A stable plan is needed to ensure workload and re-industrialization in the Bay of Cadiz. It is very important that the European funds - these budgets should serve this purpose - do not remain alone in the Castellana de Madrid, which do not remain alone in the offices of the big consultants and the big companies. It is essential that they reach the sectors of the population and the most abandoned areas most in need of an entrepreneurial State, an industrial strategy and a future bet for decades to come. Secondly, Cadiz can serve as an example of what can be around the corner. It is possible that what has happened in Cadiz is the anticipation of a possible winter of discontent in Spain. The Spanish people, in particular the most humble sectors, have suffered a great deal and need now, not tomorrow, but urgently, a Government that cares for them and protects them. If a winter of discontent comes - and Cadiz has perhaps been just an episode - it is essential that the Government do not go wrong again, that the recipes do not become more rubber balls, but rather that it is a Government of wealth redistribution. Why am I saying this? This weekend there will be concentrations so that citizens have less rights, to restrict rights and freedoms and not to touch the law that the People's Party passed at a time when, as it was adopting cuts and had more impoverished, instead of worrying about impoverishment, it was concerned about protests and instead of fighting impoverishment it fought demonstrations. It must be said loud and clear: Spain is not an insecure country; in fact, this quarter has recorded the lowest crime data. Spain does not have a public order problem, Spain has a problem of inequality and impoverishment. That is precisely why it is so important for the Government to be very firm in the defence of rights and freedoms, and that is why the law must be completely repealed, and that it must be very firm in a policy of redistribution of wealth, which takes care of the people who are living a hard winter. If a winter of discontent comes, it's not going to be at anyone's whim, it's going to be because life is getting harder and harder for most Spaniards. Look at you, these budgets that we approved today are general budgets that go in the right direction, they come out better than what you entered Congress. We have said many times that this Congress is doing the Government better, and we are humbly proud that we have been able to contribute to improving these budgets. They come out better thanks to the availability of mental health care in schools, there will be trained teachers to care for students who have problems, there will be more mentors, there will be more psychologists. There will be it not only in the expensive schools of those who can pay for it, there will be it in public institutes with equal opportunities for all. It is going to be the first time that there is, at last, a budget item to accompany companies that want to compete for being more productive and not for more workers' hours and, therefore, to help them make technological or work modifications so that a reduction in working time is compatible without reducing workers' salaries. We proposed this a year ago, it was then crazy, there were many jokes, and more and more companies are beginning to take it into consideration. There is going to be an amendment - there have also been bumps with this issue - that we have been able to negotiate, so that there is an agency that oversees the algorithms. This, why? Today there are already agencies that supervise, for example, that when you call a 901 or a 902, do not scam you, that cover what you have to charge, that is not a fraud. This already exists and needs to be adapted to the 21st century. Why? You all know that every day we skip advertising on social networks, sometimes even in a way that alarms a little. You talk to your friends that you want a restaurant and you get out on the mobile dinner ad in possible restaurants. It's not a problem that you skip this advertising when it comes to sneakers or a restaurant, but what happens when social media companies, thanks to an algorithm we don't know, make, for example, a girl who has eating disorders skip always advertising about miraculous diets? What happens when someone who is in unemployment curiously skips advertising about how to bet with cryptocurrencies? What happens, for example, because we have not audited how the algorithms that decide - today, which is the day of the fight against sexist violence - work when a woman is more or less at risk of being subjected to sexist violence? We need to monitor algorithms so that we have transparency and we can protect the most vulnerable groups. We are also proud to have promoted a technical office that will put an end to the political inaction in the Minor Sea and set out the measures to restore and definitively protect what is a heritage of the Batians and of the Spanish as a whole. We would have liked to find more understanding and dialogue with the Government on issues related to sustainable mobility, issues related to ecological transition, but we will continue to insist. Look, with these General State Budgets, the government achieves stability and, therefore, ensures that the legislature is over. This is bad news for those who predict every week that the legislature is going to end or for those who recently aim to make forecasts and electoral speculations about the legislature. The legislature is going to end and the government is gaining stability today. Now, the stability of the Government is not the same as the stability of Spanish families. For the stability of the Government to reach the stability of Spanish families it is essential that these budgets reach Spanish households, it is essential that European funds reach everyday life and that is not yet happening today. We didn't defeat the virus when we bought the vaccines, we defeated it when the vaccines reached all the Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u127	Mr. Errejon, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u128	... in the same way that an Excel table is not going to end the uncertainty. We will applaud when these budgets reach all the most needy Spanish families. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u130	Two pre-compulsory questions, ladies and gentlemen. The first: violence is to send a tank to a trade union strike, violence is to grind to pieces workers in struggle and violence, above all, is to solder plate at 70 degrees per 1000 bucks a month. That's violence and not the workers' struggle. So live Cadiz and live your working class! [[Applauds]] The second question before: putting lilacs today is very good, it is great, but not to agree with the ultra-right that denies that women are killed hundreds in this country every year because they are women is even better, lords of Citizens and of the People's Party. So less laces and a little more shame. [[Applauds]] We have come to the black Friday of budgets, that day on which we all expose here the achievements achieved, as if it were a long one, promising that we are the best, the best and that this is material of the first. It's normal, because in politics you're what you get. In politics, you're what you get. It is so and it would be very normal for me here today to expose the trophies achieved and swear and perjure that it is first-rate material, but I am not going to do it. Republican Left This is not going to happen, and not because it is not important what Republican Left has achieved today, because it is very important that the investment in Catalonia equals 19% of its GDP, for the second time in history; it is very important that it ends with the comparative aggravation of the Mossos d'Esquadra and that they can retire like the rest of the police; it is very important, above all, that pensioners with pensions of less than 900 euros have compensation and, above all, it is very important also to protect audiovisual content in co-official languages. That's very important, very important. By the way, I'm from Gramenet's Santa Coloma Fund, as many of you already know because I've said it a lot and I'll say it many more times. In the Fund of Santa Coloma de Gramenet was born the linguistic immersion; a linguistic immersion that was thanks to the workers who arrived and arrived from a lot of sites from the rest of Spain who fought, who left their skins because their children and grandchildren we learned and wanted the land we stepped on. [[Applauds]] They already faced fascism forty years ago and won. I can assure you that your heirs will, too. But allow me, I repeat, that I am not selling anything here today and that I am trying to say something, something hard, but something real: all the lefts of this Chamber at this time we are not achieving conquests. No, no, There are no conquests sold here. The Left in this Chamber and in this time, after many threats, after marathon negotiations and after campaigns of media wear on the right - of all the right, with many different flags - the left in this Chamber are simply holding back. It's all we do, slow down. Eye, which is not little and, eye, which may seem little hopeful, but I think, we believe, that it must be the basis of better horizons because, ladies and gentlemen of the left, of all the lefts - and I think this is a lesson that some and some of us must have learned a long time ago - we cannot promise heaven, we cannot promise heaven without before getting the ground. That's exactly what we're trying to do here all the left, because this is a hard, very hard time. This is a time when the opposition leader goes to a Mass for Franco, but the question is not what the PP leader does at a Mass for Franco, the question is what does a Mass for Franco do in this country; that is the question. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And in these times, when we come from having no money to buy a house, we now have no money to rent a house and, look, because we no longer count only evictions around the house, but we count suicides, in these times, in these hard times the lefts perhaps we should say clearly that we must first stop setbacks before promising conquests, because, ladies and gentlemen, the cryptonite of the left is frustration. As Pablo Elorduy says in an extraordinary article of El Salto this week - by the way, a hug from here to the companions of El Salto and La Marea -, if we dream big without even having where to sleep, we will turn this time into the time of the ashes. The ashes? Ashes that say it's the fault of migrants who pay your grandmother's pension with precarious work or ashes that say the brave thing is to protest from Twitter on a couch and not try to fight from a seat. We want to make this weather a bad time for the ashes, ladies and gentlemen. So, first, let's win the ground before we promise heaven. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echequine Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u132	Deputies, ministers and ministers, good morning. Before I enter into this matter, I would like to send all the support of our parliamentary group to the workers in Cadiz, all our rejection of the ongoing attempts to criminalize politically and mediately mobilizations and also - this is very important - all our rejection of the use of military material against the people of Cadiz. [[Applauds]] Cádiz workers, not only are you not criminals no matter how much they manipulate on too many televisions, you are a pride for the whole country. Thank you very much for your struggle, which is the struggle of the entire working class. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Now yes, we are voting here today on the General State Budgets for next year, for 2022, and I think we can draw at least three important conclusions. With regard to the 2021 budgets, the 2022 budgets could say that they are minimally expansive in economic terms, only 0.6% of the expenditure ceiling is increased, but very expansive in social terms, very expansive in social terms, with very large increases in fundamental items to improve the life of the lagent. If we include an increase of 600 million in the Dependency Act as early as 2012, this year we double that increase in the Dependency Act to 1.2 billion. For the first time in history the budget for equality policies exceeds EUR 500 million, with an increase of more than 14%. Today, 25 November, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, it is very important to mention that more than 54% of the budget of the Ministry of Equality is devoted precisely to this purpose. And these are just two of the many examples, in countless games, that lead us to today's first important conclusion: we are, without a doubt, facing the most social budgets of our country's history and this is not a slogan, they are mathematics. And how was this possible? Basically due to three factors: the significant reduction in expenditure on unemployment, especially in ERTE, thanks to economic recovery; the injection of European funds, and the most important factor of the three in quantitative terms, which already since March 2020 is suspended without the evil so-called neoliberal austerity. This is what allowed us to avoid social chaos in 2020, assuming an extraordinary, historical increase in public spending; this is what allowed us to increase the historical spending ceiling, again in 2021, and this is what allows us to consolidate that increase in 2022. If we add that during the financial crisis we took more than ten years to recover the pre-crisis levels of social security membership, while during this crisis we have taken only fifteen months, we can easily reach today's second important conclusion: neo-liberal dogmatism of evil so-called austerity not only generated enormous suffering in the population, but also was a spectacular economic failure. Having said that, and assuming the important learning that crises need to be addressed through countercyclical economic policies, we need to know that European funds are not going to continue to arrive forever and that we cannot maintain public deficit levels above 5% for many years. If we really want to consolidate the strengthening of the public, the thing is very simple: after what we learned because of this terrible epidemic, we cannot go back, in macroeconomic terms, to 2019; we cannot and must not go back to 2019. For everyone to understand, in 2019 public investment in Spain stood at 42% of GDP, the euro area average was 47%, five more points. And why this important deficit of the welfare state in Spain? As very easy, Spain's public revenue in 2019 was around 35,5% of GDP, while the euro area average was around 41.5%, six points more. Less State revenue, weaker public services. I think this can even be understood by Mr. García Aegean. [[Rumors]] If we add to all this that in 2019 the big companies had recovered their profits prior to the crisis, but they were paying half of the corporation tax, or if we add that the richest hundred Spanish millionaires increased their assets by 17% in the last year, it is not difficult to reach the last important conclusion of today, and already a summary step: we are facing the most social budgets of history. This has been possible thanks to the recognition that the evil so-called austerity is basically economic terraples. And, if we want to honor what we learned during this crisis in order not to return to 2019, we need to increase the revenue of the state by raising taxes to big fortunes and big corporations to pay what is theirs, and we need to do it soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating the general state budgets for the year 2022 for four days. There have been long and intensive discussions from which, in general, we can draw several conclusions. The first, that these are budgets that maintain a relationship, let's say, conflicting with mathematics; we already know that mathematics and the left are not easily compatible and, of course, these budgets are no longer believed by anyone because they do not square and already delegitimate them from the beginning. Secondly, these budgets execute a decision at a delicate time, and it is that Pedro Sánchez has again chosen between continuing to implement his sectarian, ideological and globalist agenda or the interests of Spain and the Spanish, and we already know that he has opted for the first. It forgets the Spaniards and consolidates an unjustifiable political expenditure that prioritizes only one objective: to maintain at all costs the sanchismo. Thirdly, they are budgets that hinder recovery with repeated tax increases, which are nothing but sticks in the wheel for a recovery that does not arrive. So we already know what: budgets that lead us, if we don't fix it, to economic ruin, but we don't know why. I would have liked to find reasons in the statement of reasons that we are now discussing, but I have to admit that I have not found any, and that is that the explanation for these budgets is not included in the text, and it is important because the only explanation is the constant, systematic, determined and unconditional will of Pedro Sánchez to be president anyway, at any price, even if that price is the very ruin of the nation he presides. [[Applauds]] What these General State Budgets detail, what is written, is more than enough to reject them flatly. There, on the street, the queues of hunger continue, the suffocated companies struggling to survive - they already know that Spain is the country of the world where business insolvency grows the most -, unemployment continues to rise to unacceptable levels and continues to beat Spanish households, but they have no hesitation in dedicating the resources of the Spanish to the massive purchase of political loyalties. In two years, the Government had doubled subsidies to trade unions, fired the media budget, watered down gender associations and chiringuitos and hit records in finger hires. We have seen it detailed in the various sections, but the most serious, the most serious thing is what these budgets conceal, and that these budgets are based on political pacts that transcend all the red lines that had been respected in our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that a century has passed, but not so long ago, since Pedro Sánchez was expelled from his own party because of what he brings to this House today. [[Applauds]] Today, these socialists are silent. You have again yielded to those responsible for the coup to democracy in Catalonia; the support of the couplists for today's budgets cannot be dissociated from the launch of an unworthy bilateral table with the separatists in Catalonia. Its support for today's budgets cannot be separated from the surrender of the head of the State's lawyer, a key to sustaining the crime of misappropriation, its support cannot be disconnected from the renewal of the Court of Auditors with the sad complicity of the People's Party and, above all, its support for these budgets is not understood without the support of illegal and immoral pardons. [[applause]] We have seen it again this week with the Supreme Court's brake on the linguistic imposition in schools in Catalonia. The separatist nationalists are being held back by the rule of law and are being held back by Spain, and then you are being released without respect to our highest courts and without consequences for you because of that lack of respect, that mockery of the institutions, institutions that you are striving to deteriorate in your determination to expel everything Spanish and in your systematic attack on those who have the courage to defend it. And, even if this is not our problem, sanchismo is also bringing about the degradation of the Socialist Party, an unrecognizable, disfigured Socialist Party; a Socialist Party with interventions as unfortunate as that of Odón Elorza yesterday, as nauseous as to take in vain the name of its own murdered party comrades. This very morning Rubén Múgica said: Odón Elorza went to funerals while Bildu's deputy, Mertxe Aizpurua, celebrated the murders. [[Applauds]] Odón Elorza has an interested selective memory and the PSOE today relies on garbage. By the way, how little they applauded Mertxe Aizpurua today - right? - from the Socialist Party. Did you embarrass them? It's a little late, but I understand the shame you've felt. I've felt shame on others and you should be very ashamed. But you have already become unrecognizable even to your own. Socialists today keep quiet to save sanchism, but tomorrow it will be sanchism that ends socialism. I won't shed a tear, maybe some of you will, but it will be late, because you shut up when you were in time to avoid it. At the beginning of the debates on these public accounts I quoted another victim of terrorism, also socialist: these budgets, part of those things that will freeze our blood, because they take a step further in the whitening of the political fabric of ETA, who did not hesitate to incorporate in the leadership of the State. They change accounts for prisoners. As Arnaldo Otegi said, if two hundred prisoners are to be taken out, the budgets must be voted on. Don't forget that Rubalcaba said Bildus is a strategic option for ETA. It is hard to forget, when Pedro Sánchez has already fulfilled one of the terrorist gang's historical demands, to end the policy of dispersal of his terrorists. None of them are serving their sentences in any prison in the southern half of Spain, all are already in prisons from the plateau up, and almost a hundred of them are already in the Basque Country and Navarre. But Bildu's goal is total release and the Government has already taken the first step by transferring prison powers. I have no doubt, we'll see more. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets will come forward thanks to the Socialists and their ready partners, all of them enemies of the nation, and, by the way, thanks also to the collaboration of the PP, which could have voted against all the sections in the Commission and had managed to stop, but they did not and with their vote allowed it to get here. So Spain is suffering the attacks of one and the necessary collaboration of others. Only one party has maintained infinite distance with all of them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u136	But it is a party that is not alone, it is accompanied by millions of Spaniards who resist, because Spain has always resisted, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes heroically, lately in a desperate way, but it always resists, and today finally the resistance has hope, today there is an alternative prepared to reverse all the damage you are doing. We will soon free millions of Spaniards from a government determined to write a future of hope, a future of opportunities and employment, a future that puts Spain first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u137	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u138	And we will do it by the hand of millions of Spaniards, because VOX is not alone, but only VOX will remain. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u140	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Two previous issues. The first, the decorum in the House, demands that no denigrating words be spoken against the Spanish high institutions, against the monarchy, and that is then not resolved by removing it from the Journal of Sessions. When Members come up here we have to comply with that decorum. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, what did you want us to vote against the crown with the gentlemen of the Republican Left and Bildu? Well, look, they're not gonna find us there. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Perea, is this what you meant? [[Show a document]] Well, don't be so triumphant, translate yesterday's Commission document from the 'brussels' to the Paladin Roman and maybe they'll get a little sufflé. We will be commenting on that in my speech. [[Applauds]] We are finalizing the debate on the 2022 budget, which has been reworked without fiscal rules, and it is being drafted - as they say in the explanatory statement - with the aim of consolidating a just economic and social recovery that will allow for the creation of a resilient economic scenario and sustainable growth. You know that we do not share with you what it means to work without fiscal rules, because one thing is that you do not have to comply with the requirements or objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact, and another very different one that is worth everything, especially to increase structural spending to unsustainable limits, and not to comply with the obligation contained in our laws to present a reasonable path back to fiscal orthodoxy. The Commission itself, in that document which I have taught you, pointed this out yesterday, when it spoke of the Spanish risk to the medium and the long term, and that we have to prepare ourselves for it. The point is that if we talk about growth in a document as important as the General Budgets of the State, the least that is expected is that the concrete objective - this year and next - is well calculated. We accept with great generosity that his July macro table could pull, but since then a world has passed: a radical revision down of the data of the second quarter by the INE and very low estimate of those of the third, dizzying rise in energy prices, problems of lack of raw materials and cuts in supply channels, problems in transport and logistics, new uncertainties in the development of the pandemic and all this accompanied by an increase in inflation to unknown levels for many years. It is natural that the analytical institutions - the Bank of Spain, the IMF, the AIReF - have revised our figures downwards, but so has the Commission, and it has done so in that document which it issued yesterday. And do you think it is a good thing to put our budgets on record when we are down by 29% this year's growth and 22% next year's growth? Is that to be satisfied? Of course, I wouldn't be. Because, what does it mean, besides an incomprehensible stubbornness? What is supposed is that if the objectives are distorted, the measures are wrong; that the power of the budgets is deteriorated as a tool of economic policy, and that they become a wet role in front of the analysts investors in international institutions, which will inexcusably produce a marked deterioration in the image of the Government that makes them and, therefore, that of our country, Spain. So for an issue that highlights the explanatory statement, then they charge their credibility with the data that accompanies it. Have you had a look at the only last panel of Funcas? Throughout these days we have heard the position and arguments of the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the cabinet members, and the conclusion is that for you the budget is a vehicle for spending and spending without limits. More contractive than that of other countries, says the Commission document. And? As a saying of the street says: Evil of many, comfort of fools. We will be a little more contractive because, as Mr Echenique said, we only went up a little bit; but we have left behind the automatic stabilizers and they have been filled with structural expenditure, and we have seen it in the ministers' appearances. We have heard them boast - which is good enough for them - of the level of the risk premium, which with the intervention of the European Central Bank has lost all its meaning as a market indicator. We have heard them argue that this crisis is going to come out in a different way than the previous one, as we will continue so we will not go out because at this moment you have doped the economy with the ERTE, with a ban on firing and the moratorium on creditor contests, and so happens what happens with the statistics. We have found that everything they give to the application of the European funds and their multiplier effect on the economy, when they fail to pull out the PERTE and have created a total confusion in our productive fabric, which already distrusts the media presentations that do not materialise in concrete actions. They are failing the two royal decree-laws of solvency that in their budget plan put as an engine of growth, and so we get to where we arrived. And the problem is that we are losing opportunities that will not pass through our door again, and that we will again be a tail van - we are already being - and this is not to be ashes, this is Eurostat and the analysts' criterion, this is the accounting of the IGAE, and this is the downward revision of growth by the European Commission in yesterday's report. That is why we understand that these are not the budgets that were needed, that they are not going to improve the lives of the Spaniards and that, as I said, they are a missed opportunity. And, finally, a slight reference to another issue they are talking about in the explanatory statement, which is territorial cohesion. My colleague, Tomás Cabezón, has already said - and he taught an amendment for Soria, Teruel and Cuenca - that they vetoed us for increased spending and that, in reality, what it meant was territorial cohesion for the territories that need it. But you are not for that cohesion or for that territorial policy, but for which it derives from the votes that support you. There is nothing more to consider than the amendments adopted and negotiated these days, as my colleague Mr Píriz has said. Objective:...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u141	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u142	Yeah. I'm done, President. ...to approve budgets anyway. Price? The one you need, including the one you pay Bildu. Shame on you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is 25 November, International Day against Violence against Women, and we are going to approve the State's General Budgets. It is precisely in this field that we have added EUR 56 million more to these budgets compared to the previous budget, up to the figure of EUR 258 million. That is a commitment of a social-democratic project and of a project of impulse against macho violence. That is the reality, and those are the facts that the Government projects of social progress. We have counted in the processing of these budgets with more than 92 appearances of high offices, by the Committee on Budgets all the ministers have passed by giving account of each and every one of the chapters and the action of their ministries and, indeed, the disappointment on the part of our parliamentary group is maximum regarding the commitment that the right-wing groups maintain with our country. They have been more concerned about disqualifying, insulting and assaulting the Government than about providing constructive initiatives to the Spanish project. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately it is, with disqualifications of all kinds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important law that we are dealing with here in this House, the law that gives hope, which creates expectations for the citizens of Spain - young people, the elderly - and on which legislative actions such as pensions are based. To give them a figure, at the start of the trialogues, the European Parliament has now voted on the start of negotiations, the mandate of the new minimum wage directive. What have the People's Party and VOX voted for? Against. Against! But you come here and you fill your mouths and talk about defending the interests of the citizens, of the early Spain, of the workers, but you are not really worried about them, you are not worried about them!How can you say, when the European Commission values positively, without any kind of fissure -positively! - and applauds Spain's draft budget bill, which meets negative criteria? That's not true, Mrs. Elvira! It's not true and you know it well! The People's Party is interested in constantly drawing a negative framework, which does not address the reality of this country at all. Or do you also mean that having more than 20 million workers in Spain at the moment is a false fact? Is that a false fact? Then pull your shoulder together and compromise yourself! It's a social spending project! Of course I do! As the European Commission is also guiding us! Six out of every ten euros to protect our citizens. That is the purpose, yes, but also with unique characteristics, injecting resources to the impulse of the productive fabric, and that is also demonstrated by the official data of our country's progress and economic development. They also discuss progress in the field of education - and in the area of pensions, as I have just told you - because we are talking about a new law on vocational training and a commitment never before seen in the field of scholarships, with more than EUR 2 billion, and they are also discussing it, and facilitating access to education for the most vulnerable also discuss it. [[Applauds]] In addition, vocational training to put an end to the serious structural problem we have in Spain in the field of education and training, with a commitment of more than EUR 5400 million; that is a commitment. And no, lessons no, lessons to a party with a hundred and forty-two years of history, which leads the social democracy in Europe, which has vertebrated the welfare state in this country, which continues to drive initiatives for the well-being of our citizens vis-à-vis those who take precedence over particular interests and, above all, those who are marked by corruption, no, we do not allow them a lesson. [[Applauds]] It is good enough to attack and insult, neither a lesson, I repeat, nor a lesson, it is not the time to give lessons, especially in view of where some come from, where they come from and the little commitment they have shown not only in the processing of this budget law, but throughout this legislature, which have not yet accepted the electoral defeat of 2019, that is the worst, and they ask for elections and again ask for elections, trip after trip, by the way. But here they come up to this rostrum and there is no country project, here there is no country project. Don't pretend to rule. How do they intend to govern Spain without a country project? With a slogan or with initiatives that really spill over the project in Spain? Having been recognised by the European Commission, exceeding the record in investment, social spending, education, marking historical milestones, how can they not agree with anything at all? Even vaccination agrarians; they said that we were not going to achieve the vaccination to which this Government had committed itself. Of course, we expect much more, and I believe that citizens too, from an irresponsible opposition that only the polls concern them. After the electoral battles of 2019 - many, by the way - do not learn the lesson; prioritize and get to work once and for all for the Spaniards, as this government and this Socialist Parliamentary Group are doing. By the way, we have been constantly insulted during these days, and here I only see honesty, honorability, working capacity and political leadership; commitment to Spain, to its territories, that is what I see. [[applause]] That is all right; we have the obligation each and every one of us to dignify this House, to do it better, to initiate constructive debates and not to follow the path you have undertaken, because the right-wing is very bad about being in the opposition, and that of working as it goes with you either, you want power by power to then do what we all already know you are doing: practices precisely nothing constructive. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will give you a piece of advice: worry more about working and building and, since they do not contribute, do not bother. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, applause.-Applause from the members of the Government.-Applause from Mr Gómez Fernández, addressed to the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u146	We continue with the agenda item on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 of 26 October of urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in the wholesale and retail markets of electricity and natural gas. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u147	Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, President. I'd like my first words... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u148	Sorry, Vice President, hold on a second. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary continues. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u149	Thank you very much, President. He said that I wanted my first words on a day like today to express affection and solidarity with all women who have suffered or have suffered macho violence, with them and with their families: you are not alone, society is with you. [[Applauds]] I would also like to express my affection and join in the pain of the injured workers and their families, as well as of Francesc Pons' colleagues, relatives and friends, who unfortunately died yesterday in an accident at the maintenance of the Ascó nuclear power plant. [[Applauds]] It reminds us of the immense importance that it has to continue working and improving every day in investment, in anticipation and in prevention and safety measures at work. Having said all this, with the memory and affection present, I would like to thank you for your presence in this debate, which is aimed at the validation of Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 of 26 October, of urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in the wholesale and retail markets for electricity and natural gas, which we adopted in the Council of Ministers and which we are considering today for validation. It is a decree-law with which we complete our commitment to the Spaniards so that the average of what is paid in homes in 2021 is equivalent to the bill of what is paid in 2018. A commitment that includes strengthening the protection of the most vulnerable in this exceptional situation of energy prices, increasing coverage up to 60% and 70% off the social bonus for vulnerable and severe vulnerable consumers, respectively. And this is a proposal that, unfortunately, remains relevant; indeed, this very week, energy prices in the wholesale markets in the European Union are at unprecedented levels. Spain is among the least expensive countries, with Portugal and Poland; today our wholesale market marks 228 euros megawatt/hour, while Germany reaches 243 euros and France reaches 302 euros megawatt/hour; by the way, our neighbor has been at prices higher than ours all November. Unseen astronomical figures that force us to strengthen consumer protection and to raise the limits of a system that clearly needs to be improved. In addition, in this Decree-Law we introduce new instruments to improve the transparency and supervision of wholesale and retail electricity markets. We know that the current regulation works, but we also know that it is not adequate to deal equitably with extreme situations such as the current ones, as the Executive Director of the International Energy Agency acknowledged yesterday. This explains why a debate has started at European level around the general principles currently governing the rules governing the functioning of the wholesale markets for the main energy products, in particular the gas and electricity markets, whose master lines have been laid down in a Commission communication on how to cope with price escalation and in reports from the European Energy Regulators Agency and the European agency responsible for market safety. Interesting reports on the internal energy market and on the CO2 market, in which I would say that, fortunately, operators are found to act in accordance with the law. But perhaps the most relevant message from these reports is that the current regulation has limitations, and it calls for us to work to correct them. In particular, the latest preliminary report of the Regulatory Agency for Energy Markets recognises that the current design is not necessarily compatible and secure with the future, and that it may be important to adjust or complement it in order to ensure an adequate response, forwarding its response to April. And it is that European citizens and businesses expect an agile and adequate response to address an extraordinary situation that we have never experienced, too. We need agility and firmness to respond adequately to the current challenges and, unfortunately, so far, these reports do not show us how to correct the constraints we are living in real time, but they do insist on something very important, something fundamental: the best recipe remains to accelerate the energy transition, as it is the only way to reduce the volatility of energy prices and the dependence on international markets; to move forward in this transition and to ensure the proper signals for domestic and industrial consumers, simultaneously reinforcing social protection measures. This requires us to know better, to know in detail, I would say, the functioning of the wholesale electricity market and the mechanisms for the formation of retail prices. This is another of the key aspects addressed in the royal decree-law that I submit to your consideration. So let me, first of all, recall the steps taken to meet our most important commitment, the commitment to Spanish citizens, and that households have an average electricity bill in the year 2021 equivalent to the year 2018. I would remind you that in June we approved the temporary reduction of VAT until the end of the year from 21 to 10 % in electricity bills, something for which we do not have the support of either the People's Party or VOX, but which is extremely important for consumers. In September, we extended the June measures and abolished the value of electricity production tax for the fourth quarter, simultaneously reducing the excise duty on electricity. To this we add another important chapter, that dedicated to strengthening the position of vulnerable consumers, creating new measures such as the minimum vital supply contained in the National Energy Poverty Strategy 2019-2024. Well, this royal decree-law that he presented today continues to strengthen support for these collectives, the most harmed by the price escalation of the wholesale market. For this reason, we increased the discounts for the electric social bonus until 31 March 2022, from 40 to 70 % for severe vulnerable consumers and from 25 to 60 % for vulnerable consumers in general. This is why we want to help alleviate the electrical bill burden of more than 1,200 000 particularly affected households and, in addition, we are increasing the social thermal bonus, a programme for the direct granting of aid through the autonomous communities financed by the State and aimed at alleviating energy poverty among vulnerable consumers in terms of energy consumed in thermal uses, such as heating, hot water or cooking. This is a key measure in this decree-law. We increase the minimum amount to be received by all beneficiaries and allocate an extra 100 million to the budget allocated so far, an increase paid from the budget of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge in 2021. In these months, therefore, we have completed the protection of vulnerable consumers, and we have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the average price of the household invoice in 2021 is equivalent to the average price of the household invoice in 2018, as far as electricity is concerned. This is done thanks - as I said earlier - to an extremely large tax reduction of 60%, and to a reduction in the fixed costs of the receipt of more than 96% in terms of charges. Nevertheless, we remain concerned about the situation of the industrial sectors which, for the most part, have high exposure to electricity market prices, as they do not have sufficient long-term coverage to ensure the supply of electricity at stable and affordable prices and are therefore exposed to high market volatility. In this regard, we are grateful for the announcements and expressions of interest made public by those electricity companies who say that they will not go up and will not update the prices fixed in the contracts in force on time. The fact is that in order to strengthen economic recovery, it is essential to know in detail the evolution of costs and the determination of prices that are then transferred to consumers. Therefore, in this context, this Decree-Law promotes transparency and supervision in the wholesale electricity market, obliging electricity producers to forward to the National Commission on Markets and Competition the information relating to the instruments for the future procurement of electricity; instruments, both physical and financial, which they have subscribed to; and, in the case of vertically integrated groups, information relating to instruments which they have subscribed to at the intra-group level, as well as with third parties. This will allow us to make real and up-to-date monitoring of price configuration in wholesale markets, both in the free and regulated markets, something essential to ensure fair cost-sharing and fair access to profits. Another important issue is the precision of the scope of the reduction mechanism approved in Decree-Law 17/2021, a provision applicable to those benefiting from the current gas price rally, which is not the case in cases where the price is established by means of forward-term procurement instruments, where a fixed and stable guaranteed price is determined, i.e. where the forward-term procurement instrument has been concluded prior to the entry into force of Decree-Law 17/21, or where the period of cover has been concluded after more than one year. In cases where partial indexation to market prices occurs, energy equivalent to the indexed part should be reduced. But this situation must be properly accredited, and it is therefore essential to establish - as we have done in the decree-law - the elements necessary to demonstrate faithfully the existence of such contracts. And it is that the proper functioning of the system needs transparency and reliability in the retail market, both gas and electricity. That is why we wanted to focus not only on transparency with regard to the wholesaler, but also step by step in the wholesaler market to the end consumer, as well as to strengthen transparency mechanisms and the responsiveness of consumers. To this end, regulation is adapted to provide consumers with more information, defining the minimum content of communications corresponding to any price increase on supply contracts, at least one month in advance. Until now, companies could report after the change had occurred; this has ceased to be possible. This detailed communication should include a comparison of the prices applied before and after the review, as well as an estimate of the annual cost that such a change would have for each consumer. [[The Lord]] These companies will also have to submit transparent, comparable and up-to-date information on available offers to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which must be made available to the public at all times in the price comparison of their website. There is not a single measure that serves to solve complex problems, and less so in a case like this: the transversal and systemic energy in our economy, in our society and in our homes. But what I am asking you to do today is to support the measures that we have taken from the Government because we know that they help to curb the increase in invoices, to counter an unpleasant situation, a particularly sensitive, important situation that is relevant at this winter stage where more energy consumption is produced in our homes. These measures respond to the need to cushion the impact of this escalation on consumers, particularly the most vulnerable. These are measures that are inspired by two basic criteria that - I think - can be supported by all of you: firstly, to mitigate the impact of price escalation on vulnerable consumers, and secondly, to improve the information of businesses and citizens for decision-making on their energy supplies. Taking into account all the above, I request all groups to support the validation of Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 of 26 October of urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in the wholesale and retail markets of electricity and natural gas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u150	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke on a position-setting basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u151	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, to begin my speech with a mention of those who, in these cold and rainy days, have suffered in Llanes, in the east of Asturias, the effects of severe floods. Along with this mention, I would like to remind the Government of the fact that five months after other catastrophic floods in eastern Asturias, in Llanes, there has not been a single aid to the victims. Good afternoon, Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. You will have noticed, like all Spaniards, that when we are still in the autumn, we have had several days of winter cold that has forced to advance the ignition of heating and to increase the use of electricity and gas to heat homes, shops, classrooms, establishments, offices and all kinds of work units. On these dates, Mrs Ribera, when the cold is beating in Spain, we are paying the highest energy prices in our history. The measures contained in this royal decree-law are necessary as a consequence of the colossal misadjustment to which the Government has dragged us, in which you, Vice-President Third, have had full energy responsibilities for three and a half years. That is to say, you have had more than 1200 official state bulletins at your disposal, although today the Spaniards suffer from the dark energy landscape that we face as a result of their untenable ecological radicalism, applied since Moncloa in the first hours after the unjust motion of censure that led Pedro Sánchez to the presidency of the government. Let me review some regrettable milestones of this drift because throughout this time, Spain renounced its energy sovereignty regardless of the coal, the only indigenous fossil fuel we have in Spain, and that we are recently importing from the United States to put into operation one of the groups of the thermal Galician of As Pontes, reopened in the face of this crazy situation with electricity and the very high prices of the receipt of light. The government shut down power generation power plants from good to good, unlike other European countries like Germany, which opened one in Dortmund with an installed power of 1.1 gigawatts. Now, Spain buys dirty electricity from polluting plants in Morocco, to which we have exported our jobs. I asked him months ago in a control session: what has the planet's environment gained by transferring electricity production to the neighbouring country? The PSOE condemned the mining basins to desertification with the closure of coal wells and the closure of plants without socio-economic alternatives for the affected territories, a specific case of Langreo and Tineo in Asturias. Without leaving the Principality we have there, in the midst of the gas crisis, a regasifier plant built in El Musel hibernada and unused for seven years. You, Mrs Rivera, in your grandiloquence in favour of the alternatives progress - which, on the other hand, are very expensive and today inefficient and insurmountable for the economy and industry - solemnly promised upon arriving at the government the reduction of the bill of light. Some of those who are now ministers, secretaries of state and advisors of the United Nations We can bet and encourage the enslavement to the government of Mariano Rajoy on account of the receipt of light and even assault the forces and bodies of state security. Today, chitón pumita; chitón pumita while the Spaniards pay more than twice the price of electricity than upon their arrival in the government, prices that impact on an outpouring inflation that has caused the escalating shopping basket. You, Minister for the Ecological Transition, with your demented energy policy are impoverishing our society and dragging Spain into a suicidal socio-economic drift that penalizes industry, destroys employment, increases access to basic goods and increases the queues of hunger. Ladies and gentlemen, the thermal social bonus that this royal decree-law enables until 31 March next year and which extends its budget allocation for the current financial year 2021 is an unavoidable patch, but very insufficient to cover the holes in the most vulnerable economies. Let no one cheat, in Spain no one is going to get rid of the impacts of energy policy that you, Mrs Ribera, and Mr Sánchez sponsor. Several of the sections of this standard are devoted to the promotion of transparency and supervision in the retail gas market, as well as to the promotion of transparency and supervision in the wholesale and retail electricity markets. Given the pernicious outcome of the Madrid Climate Summit, held at the end of 2019 - that of the Greta Thunberg catamaran, in which you made a selfi as a great propagandistic contribution to the fight against climate change - and given the result of the recent COP 26 Summit, celebrated in Glasgow - the blablablá - since we can already imagine how the wholesale and retail markets are going to take on the compliance with the rules that you have just explained. The recent incorporation, through the revolving door, of Mr Carmona's board of directors of Iberdrola, a well-known socialist youtuber, reveals and uncovers the hypocrisy of the parties forming the coalition government. Tell your co-religionary about the just transition. Ladies and gentlemen, today the population is collecting gas camping flashlights and candies in the face of the fear of a blackout because their energy decisions herald supply problems that threaten everyday life as well as commercial activity and industry, which are already suffering from the consequences of electrical cost overruns. Minister, this XIV Legislature will be remembered by the VOCID-19 pandemic and by the social impoverishment on account of an inflation and an increasing rise in the shopping basket that bring about the irresponsible decisions of the Council of Ministers. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u153	Emakumeen aurkako indarkeriari ez. No to macho violence. Today we are debating a decree that will amend, in part, Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, that decree that collected measures aimed at reducing the bill on the side of taxes and charges and even, tolls; a decree in which this group abstained from the impact or impact, not by the minority itself, that this measure concerning the reduction of the excess remuneration associated with the price of natural gas could have in the industry, because it could imply the revision and cancellation of PPPs and therefore an increase in prices. We understood and understood that it might be reasonable to want to draw certain benefits for reasons of general interest - I said it in its day - in an exceptional situation, but the fact is that the existence of different types of bilateral contracts or PPPs that the industry uses to have a stable and competitive price was not taken into account, and it assumed that the generators and traders received the price of the pool, when this is not the case, because not all the energy sold refers to the price of the wholesale market. Today, this decree modulates and corrects this anomaly so that the additional cost of this measure is not passed on to the industry and that it does not lead to the closure of renewable facilities that were also affected by the measure. It is a measure which, as I said, affected not only large electricity but also renewables. This decree, moreover, continues with the shock plan initiated to contain the impact of the energy escalation, particularly of consumers, with the temporary increase in the social bonus discount, from 25 to 60%, from 40 to 70% for the most severe, until March 2022. There is an extraordinary contribution of 100 million for the thermal bond and it is excluded from the reduction of the remuneration, as I said, for natural gas and CO2 to the generation with bilateral contracts not indexed to the daily market, specifying the scope of the application of the temporary reduction of the extraordinary profits to the generating plants that do not bear the cost of the gas impacted on the wholesale market. But, moreover - we were also saying in the debate of the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 - for this group new actions were needed to strengthen the electricity markets in the future, as well as to have good and transparent references of the monthly, quarterly and annual prices, so that it would allow all consumers to have the criteria to negotiate their new contracts or also to make better decisions in order to value their future energy costs and, as the Vice President has said today, to know precisely much better the functioning of the electricity market. In this regard, the decree introduces new obligations for generating and marketing companies. Electric marketers and gas companies will have to inform their customers of any intention to modify the terms of the contract at least one month before that intention materialises. Until now they could report after they had made the change, but no later than a billing period. In addition, notifications concerning the modification of contracts will require marketers to include a comparison of prices applied before and after the review, as well as an estimate of the annual cost of supply before and after the review. Companies will also have to provide the CNMC with transparent, comparable and up-to-date information on the prices of offers available at all times, including terms and conditions relating to the termination of contracts and additional services that require the procurement of the supply, in order to make them available to the public in the bid comparison. On the other hand, the wholesale electricity market imposes an obligation for producers and traders to inform the CNMC on a regular basis of futures electricity procurement instruments, both physical and financial, which are initialled between companies in the same business group or with third parties. This seems very important to us. Let us say again that steps must be taken gradually to make the future market more liquid and to negotiate a greater volume, so that all traders can access and close positions, giving rise to greater competition, greater liquidity and to make the construction of prices true, because it is true that large companies, in carrying out the price coverage between them - let us say again - do not have incentives to go to this market. And PPPs must also be encouraged, instilling in consumer companies that it is an option to be able to have a stable price while generators also ensure a stable selling price. We understand that this happens, of course, by simplifying PPP models and contracts to adapt them to the real needs of companies if we want the whole value chain to be sustainable, because the truth is that a medium-sized company or SME does not have the capacity to assume PPPs, which are usually very complex and long-term, but we do believe that it should be part of that model if it wants to survive. Finally, although Mr Echenique is not here today, I would like to say that when the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 was debated, he tweeted on Twitter, saying that the PNV was in favour of electricity, but it is not true, the PNV is in favour of industry and companies. I would like to know from Mr Echenique what title he is going to apply to this decree today - to us you will continue to say the same thing - because today you will vote in favour of it. So, I don't know if you're going to say that we can align with the electrics to lower the impact of the minority or if we can't keep your promise to reinforce the decree against the electrics. I don't like to make these kind of speeches, but I think it was necessary. I don't like tweet politics or easy to disqualify on the contrary. I think it serves little to make good politics, it serves more so that then maybe you can pull out the colors or show yourself those contradictions that you might have. I believe that in this field we all have to go to one, work for the functioning of the electricity market and that this can mean good prices for companies and pull forward to reactivate the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u154	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, today we are discussing Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 which is trying to be the patch of the patch, although more moderate than the one brought by the Government a few months ago with Royal Decree-Law 17/2021. But, as I say, there's nothing new that surprises us. Again, the Royal Decree includes measures which they consider very necessary, in particular for the protection of the most vulnerable to price escalation, such as electrical and thermal social bonds in Articles 1, 2 and 3. It is not clear, however, whether the expected increase in the bonus will be limited to the remaining 2021 or will extend to 2022. Perhaps the most logical thing would be that, instead of expiring on 31 December 2021, this increase would extend until 31 March 2022, coinciding with the increase in the electrical social bonus and covering the coldest months of the year. We also welcome any measures that increase transparency, of course. The information and decision-making power of consumers should be supported by this exercise of transparency and with the proposals developed in Articles 4 and 5. However, the improvisation of the Government is again evident when only two months after the approval of Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 this final provision is presented to amend it. While we welcome the rectification, we believe that at least he could have done it otherwise. How could it have been? Well, it would have been treated as a bill, so that we could all have tabled amendments. However, they bring back a royal decree law to amend or repaint a royal decree brought back earlier. Therefore, we believe that problems as important as those that exist with the price of light should not have come so far. The case of the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021's mechanism of mitigation is completely different from the mechanism of mitigation of CO2 remuneration. And you know it, Vice President, you know it. The reduction in the remuneration he proposes, unlike that of CO2, is done on the basis of a totally arbitrary approach, and that continues to worry us. It becomes completely different. How are you going to fix it? Well, according to what the Ministry for Transition says, and that seems arbitrary to us and can result in higher costs or, even, that this royal decree does not get what it really seeks. It seems rather than what the Government wants to do is start with that cut in gas remuneration and then, from there, be able to carry out other measures that are interventionist, and we are concerned, Vice-President. It seems rather than what they want is to prove that the marginalist system does not work and they want to change it through the back door. This encroachment is, if any, more serious now than it has been two months since we have been able to see the low level of support for this idea and for this reform that they want to do. They have made this clear in the European Union: they are not in line with these amendments. The Government also welcomes the statement of reasons for adopting this royal decree and says: '...in the context of a new stage of reflection which, in a broad way, has already begun around the general principles which currently govern the rules of operation of wholesale markets... and whose master lines have already been laid down in the 'Communication of the European Commission'.' This complacency is even more striking when in that communication the Commission already warns that the method of fixing marginal prices is the most efficient for liberalised electricity markets and the most appropriate to promote effective electricity trade. It is not clear to us, therefore, that the Government sees a connection between its improvisation, patch after patch, and the position of the European Commission, if not to rectify the little support that its policy finds in Brussels. The communication, in fact, proposes actions that have little to do with market intervention, such as the allocation of funds raised from emission allowances to measures to reduce the electricity bill. This is, in fact, one of the measures proposed by the Government of Sánchez in these general budgets for 2022, a proposal made by Citizens. Instead of listening to the opposition and Brussels, the government only responds to what the coalition imposes. There is nothing more to see than how the negotiation of these budgets is going and what it has yielded in order to achieve it. For the time being, four of the amendments proposed by Citizens to alleviate the energy crisis have been directly vetoed and will remain so. These are amendments that follow the line of what the European Commission has advocated and reflect those positive changes that could lessen the bill for light. One thing I tell you, minister, they've passed Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, but I'm still not seeing on the bill those reductions and that relief for families. I have compared the prices of megawatts/hours here in Spain with those of other countries but, let's be honest, the impact that they said was going to have this royal decree-law is still not being noticed. Being aware of the need for some of the measures that are contained in this royal decree-law, we are not going to vote against this validation, but we cannot support the maintenance of market intervention. It is true that we find something that is positive, and it is that contracts that are on time have remained outside the Royal Decree-Law 23/2021, something that did not happen with the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u156	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, we are before a Royal Decree-Law on 23/2021, the justification for which is the amendment or correction of Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September. This fact already defines by itself the behavior, in our opinion not adequate, of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, which we understand to be overcome and overwhelmed by this situation, because it does not cease to be very surprising that a real decree-law is published and only month and a half later it is corrected with another. There is no doubt that behind this change, beyond the alleged reasons for legal uncertainty, are the pressures and blackmail of the electric oligopoly to avoid the announced cut in profits, quantified in about EUR 2600 million. Under this new royal decree-law, companies such as Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturgas, EDP and Acciona officially guarantee that none of their bilateral contracts, PPP, can suffer cuts. Now we will see who takes charge of covering these 2600 million euros, if it does not again result in a tariff deficit. In a very timely manner, they also include in this royal decree-law the extension of the social bond of electricity until 31 March 2022, increasing the discount from 40 % to 70 % for severe vulnerable consumers and from 25 % to 60 % for vulnerable consumers, and also the increase of the thermal social bond exceptionally for this year 2021, from 25 to 35 euros. I say in due course because the modification of the royal decree by that, in our view, unwarranted assignment to the large electricity companies deserved a strong negative vote, which you call euphemistically precise the scope of application of the excessive remuneration of the electricity market. Good news, after all, for electricity and bad news for consumers and the social majority. In any case, as the BNG defends, it is necessary to discuss the comprehensive reform of the electricity sector, not only on the finalist marginalist market, in order to put energy production at the service of the public interest and the social development of our peoples. It is clear that we have to go to another production model, I remind you that even when it comes to renewable energy, the proliferation of uncontrolled wind farms, which you defend, has a very negative social and environmental impact. That is why it needs to be changed. In the case of Galicia we want our country to have the capacity to manage production through a public company and also the capacity to define a tariff policy because, if we are a surplus producer of electricity, we are entitled to compensate the social and environmental costs that we have been paying for it, especially since 1983, when a reservoir flooded Portomarín and forced to displace an entire town, and unfortunately it would not be the last, behind others would come, the thermals would come and now the wind farms. Anyway, I'm done. The Government's handover deserves our rejection, we simply do not vote against so as not to delay the implementation of the social bonds. We will abstain and support the process as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u158	Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u159	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law because we share most of the measures that are being implemented. Obviously, we share the measures relating to the electrical social bond, also to the thermal social bond, and we share not the matization, but the rectification or clarification regarding the implementation of the measures of Royal Decree-Law 17/2021. At that time we abstained in the validation of that royal decree-law because we pointed out to them some deficiencies, defects regarding the mechanism of minority that at that time they did not have to consider and that later they gave us reason and mattize, rectify or clarify. That is why it is understood that the situation is much better, we understand that it is welcome, some other spokesman has said. The effects of not doing so were very important, and all the energy affected by fixed-term contracts was very much affected, with a great impact on the industrial sector as well. That is why we are voting in favour of this validation. International markets have an evolution that is not difficult to predict and that in principle we all thought, too, that it had a strong cyclical character. The problem is that the months are passing and this situation has not just been remedied. It is therefore not to be ruled out to have to take further measures if this situation is not resolved. I know that the Government is working on it, that it is working on it in the medium and long term, but the short term must also be taken into account. In any case, I repeat, we will vote in favour and, as is usually also the tradition, we will vote in favour of processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u160	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u161	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your expressions of mourning for the person who died yesterday and we join in the desire for the two wounded to recover soon. We come to give you, Minister, the speech of yes but to Royal Decree-Law 23/2021, in which it is proposed to increase the discount on the social bonus bill, Article 1, that is, the increase in the amount of the social bonus. Yes, but it is necessary to precisely identify the consumer of truly vulnerable energy, to converge electricity, gas and hydrocarbons and, as foreseen in the European directive, to establish intensive and effective measures of protection through price fixing and favourable taxation. It is about helping, and much, those who need it and also avoiding fraud or cross-subsidy. In the end, the correct protection of these consumers is not only that of paying full or partial supply, but also, but also to activate a plan to optimize contracts and measures on direct energy efficiency and self-consumption, which you do not do, for example with regard to the technical rehabilitation of housing, the replacement of inefficient equipment and training, among others - that of teaching to fish and not giving fish - and to do so, please, in a clear and long-term way to give safety to all agents. For example, this measure will affect the marketers and ultimately the rest of the non-beneficiaries of the social bonus, who will pay this measure, since they will have to finance a higher cost, which we will then multiply by three, and in addition the discount is calculated on a much higher price of the PVPC, so the amount will be increased, and this should also be considered. As regards the mechanism for reducing the excess remuneration of the electricity market caused by the high quotation price of natural gas on the international markets in the first final provision, yes again but. It is a necessary measure and comes to cover a hole in article 4 of the Royal Decree law 17/2021. I used a joke, which I did not like to use, about where we put the axe in Valladolid; today we see where you put the axe. Welcome be, but do not open, please, new holes, as then we are doing a weak favor to legal certainty and consumers. Patch policy has been a constant, and is not recommended from any point of view. On this measure, in particular, we reaffirm the need for the minority mechanism not only to affect those technologies that have collected it. Therefore, it is not only a matter of demonstrating that they have a long-term contract, but it is not directly or indirectly influenced by the spot price, as it would imply benefiting from the cost overrun of CO2 or gas. Therefore, you should set a maximum price for these term contracts or the measure will open another hole and you will come here with another royal decree. Will we have to wait for a new royal decree to correct it? Please, I think we are playing a lot and that we cannot abuse a mechanism without measuring well the consequences it has on the various actors and the investments needed for the energy transition. On the other hand, they also reflect on futures contracts in the CO2 versus gas supply market, in particular with regard to the volume and the respective price and therefore their influence on the supply cost of the cycles. Yes, we already know about the opportunity cost, Minister, but we also know the country clauses that question, at least, the opportunity cost, this added to the fact that at times like the current one, with three nuclear power plants out of operation, gas accounts for 40% of the power generation, so that thinking about how the current situation should affect the design of capacity mechanisms is also essential. In Article 4.1 you promote information on procurement instruments - we value this measure favourably, because it provides an impetus to market transparency - and you entrust the work to the NCMC, which is good news, but, please, with the order you also incorporate greater economic and human resources, so that the regulator can carry out its task correctly, and do not charge a pen, for example, the Esquerra amendments aimed at providing a stronger and more independent regulator. As regards the increase in transfer, Articles 4.2, 5.2, 4.4 and 5.1, it is again a measure with which we can only agree, but we are not left alone in this respect. The coexistence of the PVPC with the liberalised market is seriously distorting the electricity market for the residential consumer. I remind you, Minister, that we are failing to comply with the European Internal Market Directive, allowing large companies to benefit from the CFPA. In addition, there are contradictory messages. Fixed rates far below the market offered by integrated groups, it seems that in a coordinated way, generate even greater waste, since they seem to integrate intra-group term contracts to achieve positions of greater strength and dominance. Does it matter to this government that there is healthy competition for the good end of markets? Well, day yes, day we don't read some marketer's bankruptcy. You see, minister, yes, but, too many buts. We fear that the deorbited objectives that the president imposes on you on a media imperative, because we do not imagine you staring recklessly, generate a tension that in no way helps to fix and treat the cause more than the symptom and walk to bandages, from patch to patch in already geometric proportion. They make our work harder and harder. We know that yours is arduous and demanding, but stop scorning those who share with you at least the goals. You're running out today, Madam Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u162	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u163	...our credit. You forgive me. Thank you very much. They give away minutes, but I've been cut off. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u164	No, I was warning you that your time was over, I hadn't cut you off. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in Communal, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u165	Thank you, President. Whenever we have a debate on energy, the different versions that each group has about how our country's energy model should be. The positions of Mr Martínez Oblanca, who mixes Greta Thunberg's sailboat with the defense of a fuel that has been decided globally that must be eliminated, what coal is. Mrs Sagastizabal, I'm sorry you're not here, Echenique, but I'm surprised you're upset that you said that the PNV defends the interests of industry, since that's what you do systematically, and you also make a flag of it. And not only do they make flags, but they are also the group on which the rotating doors between high-ranking PNV officials and high-ranking industry officials have a greater impact with reference to the number of deputies. I mean, you're leaders in rotating doors, so you shouldn't be surprised. We will, of course, vote yes to the decree, but not because it no longer seems bad to us, which seems frankly bad to us, that energy that costs producing three euros the megawatt/hour the electricity companies of the oligopoly are charging at two hundred euros or more, depending on the price of the wholesale market. Frankly, it seems to us that it is something that must not be accepted simply, and that is why we advocate a thorough reform of the electricity market, because we believe that the situation cannot be sustained like this, we believe that it is frankly unfair. [[Applauds]] In any case, the decree has other aspects that, of course, we appreciate very positively. To make it clear and as is well known, the situation of the international energy markets, which are going through one of the most complex and transcendent periods of recent years, is mainly generated by the rise in the price of gas, a fossil fuel. The price of electricity in wholesale markets is experiencing a never-before-observed high pressure. In a purely illustrative way, the average arithmetic price of electricity over the last three years in the Iberian market was forty-six euros per megawatt/hour. In contrast, the average closing price in September stood at one hundred fifty-six euros the megawatt/hour and the average price in the first days of October has exceeded two hundred euros megawatt/hour. This is not the fault of a vice-president or a government, because precisely what today's prices show is that they are particularly high in countries like France, which, by the way, as we said yesterday, has a high nuclear deployment. Therefore, the argument that nuclear power is the one that lowers the price of electricity I fear has not worked either on this occasion. In any case, since the Government's objective is to leave no one behind, this royal decree articulates a set of normative instruments that can respond to the rise in wholesale electricity prices using a protective approach for the most vulnerable groups. In this way, measures related to the electrical social bond are articulated, extending the discount rate on electricity bills to both vulnerable and severe vulnerable consumers until 31 March 2022. And as for the thermal social bond, the minimum amount up to thirty-five euros is increased by 2021, extending the transfer of the thermal social bond by one hundred million euros, from the budget of the State Energy Secretariat. In any case, what we have before us is finally a debate on the energy model, and we believe that there are three issues that are key and that will affect the medium term on the price of electricity: firstly, the boost to renewable energy; secondly, the need - and we insist on it - for a public energy company and, thirdly, that reform of the electricity system to which I referred. On renewable energies, it is well known that they are the most effective sources to reduce the price of electricity. Therefore, the real antidote against the rise in electricity prices will be these energies. In fact, when wind has produced more it has been when prices have fallen significantly. Therefore, reducing dependence on fossil fuels is not only an ecological but also a strategic need. He said yesterday that investment in renewables is more effective and efficient than any other investment, including nuclear. In addition, renewable energy has experienced significant cost reductions since 2010 and all indications are that the decline will continue to be dizzying. Both from an environmental and investment efficiency point of view, renewables win. In order to achieve the transformative scenario, we must invest in electrification, flexibility, electric vehicle, energy storage, of course in renewables, green hydrogen and innovation in order to decarbonise the most complex sectors and achieve zero emissions. Secondly, for us, the creation of a public energy company is key. That is why we are committed to boosting this public presence in the Spanish electricity market, and therefore we insist once again on boosting this energy production company, starting with the progressive recovery of the water jumps whose concession is winning, something we will continue to insist on. And finally, the necessary modification of the wholesale market, because it is really a market that was designed and designed for another energy model, in which the different sources were more or less similar, and now new sources of energy emerge, mainly renewable ones, that unbalance the value of that market model. Therefore, these are the aspects on which we really believe we need to deepen and we need to change to get out of the current oligopoly situation and move towards a fair energy market that leaves no one behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u166	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, with great sadness I see that you do not think of the Spanish families, first of all because you could have used this royal decree-law to modify those aids that you say will be the mattress, that will help. This aid is not reaching the Spanish families, the proof is that so far only 25% of the potential beneficiaries of this aid have been able to apply for it, 25%, and that is not what I say, the data published so far by the press say. Aids have a complex, bureaucratic system, require sending scanned documentation, require online procedures that families in need are not able to complete. So, minister, instead of telling us your stories, do something real, because again these aids are not coming. On the other hand, you still do not tackle the real problem, energy sovereignty. Madam Minister, as long as Spain does not own the price of its energy we will not go anywhere. We are importing dirty energy from Morocco, we are at the peak of international market prices, we are at the peak of rising or falling gas prices, which we do not control, or the prices of CO2 emissions, which you control through the European Commission but which in the end we cannot handle upwards or downwards. In short, we do not control our destiny, and this could be solved by making it easier for Spain to regain its energy sovereignty, and again they do not. Also, the other party of the government, Podemos, comes here with its stories of expropriations and creation of a public energy generation company, but I am very sorry, Mr de Podemos, because until they change the pricing system of the current electricity market they will not manage, with or without public enterprise, to control the prices of electricity. If Spain does not regain its energy sovereignty, you will not be able to put the rattlesnake on that cat. I'm so sorry, Minister, and it's sad to have to say this. On the other hand, we are talking about the Royal Decree-Law on urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in wholesale and retail electricity markets, i.e. on consumers and transparency. That sounds very good, but, Minister, it is that you systematically lie about the titles that set your standards. They lie, because they are not going to protect consumers here or give transparency to the market. And I'm going to explain myself, because the reality is that this royal decree-law at the end is a way to get a leg out of you; you put the sledgehammer with Royal Decree-law 17/2021, of urgent measures to mitigate the price escalation of gas, and with the bill that acts on the remuneration of unissued CO2, again two misleading names. You have screwed up, about what I give a very brief explanation of how the energy system works in Spain, and it is that basically the most expensive energy is the one that sets the price at which all energies will be bought and in this case the most expensive energy is that of gas. Why? On the one hand, because it burns gas, which is in record prices, and also because it produces CO2, which is also in record prices; that is controlled by you and the gas issue you could tackle if we once again regain energy sovereignty, which you do not want to do. So, the energy produced by gas is the most expensive, the price is fixed and all other energies, which apparently have lower variable costs - renewable energy, hydraulic energy, nuclear energy, etc. - supposedly get that remuneration. On the basis of that premise, you wanted to nail an axe to all those who produce energy with supposedly cheaper technologies and charge them the difference, a kind of new tax. But the reality is that the market doesn't work that way, because these companies don't sell at the variable market price, these companies close long-term contracts. Instead of selling a hundred, playing it on the market, I prefer to sell fifty, for example, but in the long term, with a three-year contract, five years. Therefore, if you now remove that difference from you for a hundred, you are going to lose money, you are going to break the contracts you have signed with other consumers, you are going to harm businesses, you are going to harm consumers, and you are going to harm the market, because that creates brutal legal uncertainty. Madam Minister, you don't seem to care about all this, but you do. Now you come to get the fuck out, you realize you've made a mistake and get the fuck out with this royal decree. To make my guilt more digestible they place these extensions at the maximum limit that is granted with social bonds, and that is fine, but until the bureaucracy of these bonds improves they will not reach anyone, with amplified amount or with reduced amount, equals, because again families will not benefit from it. But, returning to the question, you, Minister, disobeyed all the warnings of the sector, disobeyed all the warnings of the professionals, because they told you that the previous Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 and that bill were going to be harmful to Spain. They told you repeatedly, but you, blinded by that fanaticism in the climate religion you profess, did not listen to them, and now you have to come to play the mea culpa, since with that royal decree and that bill was going to raise approximately 2600 million euros. That's what you wanted to raise and that's how you got into the budgets, by the way, and now with this reform you're going to raise between 500 and 300 million euros. That's a hell of a hole you're going to believe in the public arks! Well, the reality is that you're gonna get this anyhow, it's not gonna take your sleep away. He lives protected by this state from the welfare of politicians and you are going to get absolutely nothing, but to those who listen to us I say that if a manager of any company, if any manager, anyone creates in your company a hole of two billion euros, they roll heads, there are resignations and, of course, demands for negligent management. [[Applauds]] You, however, will not even bow the eyebrows. The proof is that you are sitting here with absolute tranquility and, instead of asking forgiveness and apologizing, as anyone would, comes with pride and tries to cover up your rule with rumbling names, tries to hide it behind a social bonus that I have already told you is not going to favor families, and in the end, as always, it will be the taxpayers who have to pay for the broken dishes that you are leaving behind. For the moment, this broken dish is going to cost us two billion euros to all taxpayers, plus the doubts that already exist because of the legal uncertainty that this has generated in the electricity market. In short, Madam Minister, less evil that you live in this state of the welfare of politicians and nothing is going to happen to you, but the poor Spaniards are suffering. Please fight for Spain's energy sovereignty and really help Spanish families, don't just throw these bombs. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u168	Thank you. Mr. Requena Ruiz has the floor for the People's Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. These were the literal words of the President of the Government: 'We are working with a plan to reach a concrete compromise, and it is that at the end of 2021 the Spaniards look back and see that they have paid on the bill of light a similar amount and similar to that they paid in 2018.' This was the desperate commitment of the President of the Government, who today has affirmed the Minister for the Ecological Transition, of which today, in the last month of the year, we can say that it is only another chain of deception to society that has its origin in you, Mrs Ribera. You have designed a spiral of lies grounded under your sectarianism and incompetence. The promise that you made to President Sánchez and that he made to the Spaniards is a promise that you will never be able to fulfill, it is a gross lie. You knew, as I know, that you were cheating on us and you didn't tell the president; you just lied to him to buy time. Madam Ribera, say what you say, 2021 will be the year in which the Spaniards pay the most expensive light in our country's history, 2021 will be the year in which the Spaniards pay the most for gasoline and diesel in our country's history, 2021 will be the year in which natural gas is the most expensive in our country's history, 2021 will be the year in which prices have risen the most in the last two decades, motivated by their inability to tackle the energy problem. Everything under your feet collapses, Mrs Ribera, and you hide, disappear, leave it out or legislate based on improvisation and patches. Mrs Rivera, you are responsible for this country's energy policy. Don't look elsewhere, it's you and the consequences of your actions and decisions are yours. First, you went to beg for gas in Algeria three days before the closure of the Maghreb-Europe gas pipeline. Do you think this is serious? He's been a minister for more than three years, see if he's had time to do anything to keep one of our country's major gas arteries from shutting down, but out of laxity he didn't do anything. Do you think that what had not been done for three years you were going to solve it in three days? No, and that's up to Mr. Echenique, isn't it? [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mrs Ribera, you went to Europe on 11 June to say that you did not want gas, that no gas interconnection project should be financed by the European Union; neither renewable gas nor hydrogen, a sectarian position and away from the real energy transition that we have to do. What did you expect from the European Union when they talk about natural gas as a transitional activity in taxonomy for sustainable activities and you oppose it? Don't you think your aversion to gas is behind the energy problems it is generating? [[The lady]] Thirdly, today we are debating Royal Decree-Law 23/2021, which is nothing more than a correction to the dips in Royal Decree 17/2021 of 14 September, which they described as this: government interventionism, risk for investment in renewables, negative impact measures for consumers in the sector and - worse - for the country, radical decision of the Government, remedies before the courts. I could go on for a few more minutes with that kind of ratings, but I think you understand well what they mean. Fourthly, you did not have the honour to go to the meeting of ministers of the European Union on 26 October in Luxembourg simply and simply because you knew that the answer the Commission was going to give to its energy policy was rejection, because your attempts to blame the European Union for the failures in Spanish energy policy may help to convince the President of the Government, but in Europe they do not believe it. Your fanaticism is causing us problems with our partners in Europe, you are beginning to be impertinent and uncomfortable in the European Union, and it has been a long time since what is irrelevant. That is why you were not, because you proposed to hold Europe accountable and Europe said no, this is your fault. Fifthly, you have developed a legislative framework in just a year by bringing laws to this House that have two guiding principles: one, that are ideological, sectarian and interventionist, that are putting the Spanish economy at risk, that are depopulating our country, Minister of the Demographic Challenge, that are throwing down the prestige of Spain and the credibility of our country, and, two, that with every law that you have made has increased the price of energy. [[Applauds]] Mrs Ribera, listen, and count on me: one, the Royal Decree-Law 23/2020, of 23 June; two, the Royal Decree-Law 34/2020, of 17 November; three, the Royal Decree-Law 12/2021, of 24 June; four, the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, of 14 September; five, the Royal Decree-Law 23/2021, of 26 October; six, the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System; seven, the law on the remuneration of unissued CO2; eight, the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act; nine, the Circular 3/2020 of the CNMC, that is, the electric tariff, and ten, the abolition of the ceiling of 180 euros in the marginalist market, which has allowed the light today to be at levels never seen and to rise above 300 euros. [[Applauds]] Mrs Ribera, in a year and five months this House has given you ten opportunities to prove your worth and it is ten times that you have worsened the economic situation in our country. How many more opportunities do you need? Can you assure us here today that this will be the last interventionist measure? No, no, Mrs Ribera, all your work has turned out not to be useful. And when something's not useful, it's useless. But do you know what I'm saying? If you were not so indolent, but to despise this House so much, because you do not even listen to any of the speakers who have come up to this rostrum today to raise our positions; if you do not despise the opposition so much, after ten opportunities you would have no more exit than resignation before they cease. That's what you should do, Mrs Ribera. [[Applauds]] But there is another virtue of his that is even worse, pride. We have vetoed 91% of the energy amendments we have tabled, and those that have not vetoed them have rejected them. Not only does it ruin us, but it also does not let us help. But Mrs Ribera, your incompetence is not new, it comes from afar. I don't know if you remember this letter. This letter was sent by the Climate Action Commissioner, Connie Hedegaard, in which she said that you did not meet the commitments of the Kyoto Protocol in climate change. You never meet and are a risk to climate goals. So, given your tradition of non-compliance, I'm going to ask you a question: Are you really going to keep the promise Sanchez made to the Spaniards with the bill of light? Yes or no, Mrs Ribera? The question is simple and, if not, go away and no longer tarnish the image, the credibility of SMEs and autonomous people, the competitiveness of families, the prestige, the present or the future of this piece of country that we have and that is called Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u170	Thank you, Mr. Requena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u171	Before we begin today, which is 25 November, I want to send a strong message against machismo and violence against women. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, machismo kills. Women are afraid and, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not compatible with fear. President, Madam Vice-President, members of the Government, we have been experiencing a very complex situation in the energy markets for several months, a situation that affects the whole of Europe, which affects the whole world. During this time, we have experienced an escalation in the prices of natural gas that this year has passed from the fifteen euros the megawatt/hour to the more than one hundred euros megawatt/hour that we saw last month. Similarly, we have seen a very significant increase in CO2 emission allowance prices as well. After all, these two issues are the main reasons why, among other things, we are experiencing much higher than normal electricity prices, much higher than acceptable. In these circumstances, the Government has been taking action on a step-by-step basis and thank you, Mr. Requena, for listing them, because this Government keeps working to deal with this situation and cushion this price rise and that the citizens of this country do not have to deal with this situation alone. And look, on the one hand, working in the long term, as you have said, with laws such as the law of the sustainability fund, which will serve to remove from the bill of light costs relating to renewable premiums, or also the law regulating the extraordinary benefits of unissued CO2. But, and very important, also with immediate measures, measures such as those launched in recent months and which have served to alleviate this situation, to help businesses and, in particular, to help families and, in particular, the most vulnerable families. The Royal Decrees 12 and 17 of the same year took decisive and decisive measures, such as the creation of the vital supply, the prohibition of supply cuts, the suspension of the generation tax, the reduction of the excise duty on electricity, the reduction of VAT from 21 to 10 per cent. They are all measures aimed at reducing electricity costs to all people in this country. In the meantime, while all this was happening, while everything Mr. Requena was telling us was happening, what has the right and the right of this country done? What it always does: oppose, vote against; vote against lowering the bill of light to all households in this country. VOX is Doctor No. VOX doesn't understand another option. The idea of VOX does not include constructive opposition, it is not in its DNA, nor is it expected. Look, Mr Figaredo and also Mr Martínez Oblanca, we fight for the energy sovereignty of this country, but the energy sovereignty of this country is called renewable energies. And the PP? The PP what? The PP, that PP who claims to be a state party, that PP who claims to be an alternative government. The PP nothing, the PP nothing nothing. The worst of all is that nothing at all is out of pure selfishness, out of pure insensitivity to people's problems, and because it serves their particular interests. Look, from the creators of: 'Let Spain fall that we will already raise it', now they bring us: let the Spaniards fall if that serves us to rise to us. [[Applauds]] They don't care. They are absolutely equal to the problems of the Spaniards whenever these problems serve their interests. Take a bone and don't let go. We'll see about that. Fall who'll fall. It is not going to be that they fix the man, that a problem can be solved and the story dropped, you are emptied of the argument, because that is the only thing that worries you. A few days ago, some of my colleagues asked me about a motion that the People's Party is taking to town halls and parliaments, a motion that calls on the government to keep the VAT reduction from 21 to 10 %. I wonder why. For what? So when we bring him here, they'll vote against it again? Is that why you want the government to be urged to maintain the VAT rebate? [[Applauds]] Look, you're incoherent, you're incoherent and you don't give a shit about everything; and in the face of that attitude, the work of this government. This royal decree brought by the Government today for validation only extends the line of defence that we have established for the people of this country. It expands protection for vulnerable consumers against these rising electricity prices; it expands aid, increases the discounts for more than 1.2 million households with the electric social bond and the thermal social bond. In addition, this must also be complemented by the expansion of the supply cut-off ban. Look, with this we multiply the aid by two, we multiply by two the budget allocated for this year 2021 with these bonds. In addition, greater transparency is added to the market, both to the wholesaler and to final consumers, businesses and households. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to expand rights, we continue to expand the social shield, we continue to improve consumer protection. The Government continues to work against a situation that is very complex, very complex and that affects all countries in our environment. But this Government does so in a forceful way. No other Government has proposed such a package. No other Government has created a social shield comparable to that deployed by the government that President Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of this government and the commitment of this parliamentary group to people, to citizens, is firm and unequivocal. We will always put people ahead, we will always deploy the necessary measures to protect the families of this country, we will always fight for equality, we will always fight for social justice. The movement is shown to be moving; this is something that is shown law to law, it is shown decree to decree, it is shown budget to budget. And he said to the right, "What will the right and the right do for this country?" Will they help families who need the electric social bonus and the thermal social bonus to vote in favour of this decree, voting in favour of enlargement? Or will you put your interests ahead - your particular interests, as you always do - will you start thinking about people or will you continue to think about yourselves? You do what you want, what you always do; we will also do what we always do: we will defend all the people of this country above all else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the telematics vote on all the items on the agenda, I am announcing the outcome of the votes. Draft Law on General State Budgets for 2022. The results have been as follows: Vote on the opinion on Title I, as amended by the amendments adopted. Votes cast, 347; in favour, 188; against, 158; abstentions 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title II. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title III. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title IV. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Title VIII. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 07 opinion, passive classes. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 260; against, 87; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion on Title V. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 06 opinion, public debt: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on Title VI opinion: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on Title VII opinion: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions: 348 votes cast; 188 in favour; 159 against; 1 abstention. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Annexes I to XIV: 348 votes in favour, 187 against, 160 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 12, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 34, Financial relations with the European Union: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 13, Ministry of Justice: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 14, Ministry of Defence: 348 votes cast; 170 in favour; 159 against; abstentions, 19. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 15, Ministry of Finance and Public Service: 348 votes in favour, 189 against, 158 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 10 opinion, centralised: 348 votes in favour, 272 against, 75 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 38 opinion, financing systems for territorial entities: 348 votes cast; 188 in favour; 159 against; 1 abstention. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 16, Ministry of the Interior: 348 votes in favour, 170 against, 159 abstentions, 19. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training: 348 votes cast; 188 in favour; 159 against; 1 abstention. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 20, Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge: votes cast, 348; in favour, 188; against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 26, Ministry of Health: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 27, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030: 348 votes in favour 188 against 159 abstentions 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 30, Ministry of Equality: 347 votes cast; 188 in favour; 158 against; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on Section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs opinion: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 32, Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 60 opinion, Social security: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on Section 33 opinion, Ministry of Universities: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 01, House of His Majesty the King: 348 votes in favour, 259 against, 66 abstentions, 23. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 02, General Courts: 348 votes in favour, 281 against, 66 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 03, Court of Auditors: 348 votes in favour, 263 against, 66 abstentions, 19. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 04 opinion, Constitutional Court: 348 votes cast; 263 in favour; 66 against; abstentions, 19. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 05, Council of State: 348 votes in favour, 281 against, 66 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 08, General Council of the Judiciary: 346 votes in favour, 263 against, 64; abstentions, 19. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 09, Contributions to Administrative Mutualism: 348 votes in favour, 281 against, 66; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on section 35 opinion, Contingency Fund: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of Section 36, Interterritorial Compensation Funds: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of section 37, Other financial relations with territorial entities: 347 votes in favour, 188 against, 158; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of the administrative, corporate and foundational public sector entities and annex of actual investments: votes cast, 347; in favour, 188; against, 158; abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on State revenue: 348 votes in favour, 188 against, 159 abstentions, 1. The opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on the opinion of the Preamble: 347 votes in favour, 188 against, 157 abstentions, 2. The opinion was therefore adopted. Accordingly, the State General Budgets Bill for 2022 was approved and, in accordance with article 90 of the Constitution, it would be transferred to the Senate. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and other ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary groups that have supported the budgets.- The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, addresses the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, Mr Gómez Hernández and Mr Echenique Robba, with whom he embraces.-Applause from the Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, addressed to the groups mentioned above.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-25-CD211125.u174	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 23/2021 of 26 October on urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in wholesale and retail electricity and natural gas markets. Votes cast, 348; in favour, 189; against, 1; abstentions, 158. Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Votes cast, 347; in favour, 159; against, 177; abstentions, 11. Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was three and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
