ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. [[Rumors]] Take your seats, please. Titles I and II We began the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2022. We begin with the joint debate on Titles I and II. In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Mazón Ramos. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the speakers to begin, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u2	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I support the amendments tabled by all the groups in the Joint Group. Secondly, I reiterate that having approved budgets at the beginning of each exercise is an indispensable condition for good governance. This is the position that the Regionalist Party of Cantabria has always maintained, and we continue to defend this exercise as well. We have already said in the negotiations prior to the adoption of the bill that, for the PRC, as important or much more than the commitments included in the document itself was the indispensable fulfillment of the commitments that were adopted in the exercise... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u3	Mr. Mazón, wait a minute. I've stopped time; don't suffer. I'll ask you again for silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u4	Thank you very much. I repeat: we said that, more than the commitments included in the document itself, it was essential that the commitments of the previous financial year should be fulfilled. Therefore, regardless of other issues that President Revilla had agreed with the Minister of Finance, such as the inclusion of the payment of the debt of Valdecilla or the financing of the logistics center of La Pasiega or the financing of the Museum of Prehistory and Archaeology, it was necessary to fulfill before the vote of the amendment to the full two commitments that were the bidding of the Guarnizo-Renedo railway and the Vega road from Liébana to Potes. It should be said that the Government had fulfilled its commitments within that period, and therefore independent of other minor amendments - some of which had already been incorporated into the paper and some of which remained pending - the two conditions had been met within that period. We are therefore ready to approve this budget. With regard to Titles I and II, corresponding to this turn, it must be said that, although most of these concepts are already included in the General Budget Act, it is never more likely to repeat that the budget makes available to the Treasury Board many mechanisms to make actual execution better than there is, because it must be recognized that the execution of the items is currently leaving much to be desired. We know that each section of each ministry has the responsibility to implement the expenditure, but Finance has the obligation to facilitate this and much more at the time we are, in which Europe is looking at us with magnifying glass and we have to meet all the commitments on the extraordinary funds of the COVID, regardless of the eternal issue of collection, because we always value revenue and expenditure in a very optimistic way and then need important follow-up to do so. That is why I think it is important to remind the Minister - and I will have occasion in her turn - that the success of the Government depends to a large extent on her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Sayas López has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. If there were enough reasons not to support these accounts, the ineffable agreement that the Spanish Government has just signed with Bildu, which is an insult to any Democrat, but which of course lacks respect for any shipowner, certainly does not make us even think about it. [[applause]] Do you know what our land needs, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of Podemos? Our land needs, first of all, respect; secondly, investment and, thirdly, a plan for the future. We do not need a neighbouring community to introduce us to the ETB by the force of Sánchez's submission. We shipwrecks don't want to see ETB; we shipwrecks want investments and a community project. Do you know who wants to see ETB in Navarre? Those who want to re-establish brains by indoctrination through television to build nationalism; those who use the language to divide shipwrecks with an element of national construction and not a cultural or communication element. Those are the ones who want to see the ETB, those are the ones who have been subjected to the Sanchez Government once again. And those are the covenants we know. But we are even more concerned by those we do not know, because Mr Otegi went out and said that Bildu would approve these budgets if ETA prisoners were released. You'll tell us no, but the answer is yes, just as you said you weren't going to approach them and today there's no one left without approaching. For if this government has proved anything it has been the lie, the insult to democracy and the subjection to a force like Bildu to nausea; to nausea. [[Applauds]] So, when Bildu's spokesman came out today with a banner saying, "Until I get it, I'm going to tell you one thing: with Sanchez you can, with Navarra you can't. If it means that they will have Navarra, I will tell you that they do not have a much more important thing than the Government of Spain, which is the will of the Navarras, a will that, immensely majority, has told them and will continue to tell them always that Navarra is Navarra, that Navarra is foral and that Navarra is Spain and that there is no segregating nationalism that can with the present and with the future of this land, but that neither is there a government that can with the will of the Navarras. Make it very clear, gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen and ladies of Podemos; make it very clear. [[The Lord]] We tell them that we are not going to participate in accounts that are not intended to bring Spain forward. The only objective of these accounts is to continue paying obscene blackmail with the checkbook of all Spaniards. As long as we have a country that bleeds out, with an economy that fell by 11% last year, a deficit that this year is going to reach 8, a public debt of 1.5 billion euros; as long as the Spanish strive every day to get ahead, despite the fact that the light has risen by 300 %, the gasoline by 100 % and the shopping basket is fired, we have a government that is not worried about making Spain a more resilient country, but that the only thing that worries it is how it makes the government more resilient in the Moncloa. That's the only objective. But we tell him that we will work until we do. And you know what we want to get? Cast them out of the Moncloa, because at that moment we can start a promising future for Spain. Until then, it will be very difficult. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u7	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is never ever. If you want, I'll tell you twenty times: with Bildu we're not going to make a deal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what I say, but the Sanchez before he arrived in Moncloa. No one has been more critical against the core of these budgets - which is the pact with Bildu - than the Socialist Party, which asked all Spaniards to vote. Today, Bildu announces to vote in favour of these accounts, of these budgets. What happened to them voting for it? What have you agreed with Bildu, gentlemen of the government? What have the Spaniards done to make Mr Otegi decide the future of 47 million Spaniards? We'll know for chapters. The budgetary treatment of these accounts, of these budgets - I said in the Commission, in the debate on the amendments in the Commission - is a pantomime, a waste of time. It's been an accidental processing, a hit in capitals, you've passed the roller to the opposition. An anti-democratic outrage, including the vetoes - which I do not say I vote against, eh?, I say veto, which means, even, to prevent the calm and calm debate of amendments to these accounts - ideological vetoes, without legal or budgetary criteria, even against the criteria of the lawyers of this House. That shows his weakness. This shows that it is a government that knows that it has no majority to govern, to draw these budgets, it is a government that has presented these accounts with fear. And, in the fear that certain measures would be vetoed, he decided to veto them, to silence the opposition. These are general state budgets that we don't like. We have already tabled an amendment to the whole, which was rejected, because they are budgets that are not state budgets; they are not the budgets that Spain needs. These are the budgets that the Socialist Party - Mr Sánchez - needs to continue in Moncloa; they are bad budgets for Spain and bad for the future of 47 million Spaniards. We reject all these budgets because they are based on unattainable macroeconomic forecasts and, therefore, on unreal collection figures, outside the latest data known and not endorsed by the main agencies. Moreover, they are budgets that increase the tax burden on companies - let us remember the minimum tax of 15% in companies - penalise private pension schemes, increase the registration tax, increase the light tax, increase the tax on small sectors, increase social contributions. In addition, they are budgets that generate inequality and territorial imbalances, rewarding territories where you govern or need these support for budgets. They are accounts that squander and waste the opportunity of European funds and, in addition, they are accounts that do not offer real solutions, concrete reforms, but are pure makeup. The more social and feminist government, greener and more progressive - with all the 'ists' that you want to put on it -, with your vetoes, makes recovery more difficult. There are 150 amendments from my group which have been rejected. You have vetoed measures to encourage the creation of businesses - the 270-; the deduction by hiring domestic service with discharge in Social Security to encourage the regulated recruitment of a vulnerable group - Amendment 271-; you have vetoed specific tax measures for depopulated areas - Amendment 301-; you see the 4 % VAT for hairdressers, the 4 % VAT for masks, the 10 % VAT for electricity, now that light is so cheap; amendments to encourage the digitisation of SMEs - amendment 472-; aids for self-employed walkers - amendment 293-; resources for families with patients with terrible ALS - amendment 482-; a study on the extension of the useful life of nuclear power, now that light is so cheap - amendment 312-; an economic endowment for the arrival of the Internet in depopulated areas - amendment 470-; facilitating the reconciliation and promotion of birth - amendment 415-; improving contracts for training and learning of persons with disabilities - amendment 319-; ending the general administration of the non-remuneration - thus the 305- The amendment that you have not vetoed is that of raising the salary; a shameless one. What they have not vetoed will keep him alive for the debate in plenary, except for Amendment 309, which was adopted in the Committee on Budgets. Thanks to this amendment, adopted, I do not know if by waste - blessed waste!-, Citizens have managed to make tourism a strategic sector. The worst of bipartisanism, now called tripartisanism, is again seen in these accounts, in their forms and in their proceedings. You sit down to share your armchairs, unable to make a beneficial and loyal account with the Spaniards, who have been suffering a pandemic and a socialist government supported by communists, nationalists and independenceists for two years. We add to the vetoes the lack of implementation of the budget. Yesterday, the director of the economic situation of Funcas made a warning and said that the implementation deficit of some of the main measures, announced at the BOE, was unacceptable, because it hinders our recovery. It went through direct aid, with minimum living income, with last year's General State Budgets and will go through cohesion funds and with the Next Generation Funds. These budgets are again the propaganda of advertising campaigns, such as social Fridays or youth bonuses. Life-long bipartisanism watering with promises of money and investments to the Spaniards and then end up adjusting spending through budget failure. All this, ladies and gentlemen, deserves our vote against the budgets; all this is part of the bipartisan legacy of a short-term government and a cross-armed opposition that awaits its turn in an alternation in which we live. These are, unfortunately, the ills of Spanish politics that no pandemic has been able to eradicate. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u9	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u10	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in one of the most relevant debates in these Chambers. Traditionally, every year, although things have changed since then, the Chambers must or must not approve a budget so that the Government can implement it. The responsibility of the Chambers is to approve the budget, in any case, and then implementation is the responsibility of the Government. To get here we have had to save a first stumbling block, as in all places, which is that the amendments to the whole did not prosper. We, the Democratic Party, did not submit an amendment to the whole and at that time one thing was explained that we understood that it was very reasonable, that if you want to abort the budget, it is reasonable to do so at the end of your process. There is no point in trying that the budget cannot be dealt with, unless you want the Government to fall for it. And this is true here in Madrid and it is also true in Barcelona, in the Parliament of Catalonia, where they are precisely in this thesis. What is curious is that some parties defend one position here and execute another one there, and what is also curious is that other parties execute one there and defend a different one here. In any case, these are the tasks of politics that make politics far away from the citizenry. We do not present an amendment in its entirety. In fact, under normal conditions such as those of the past - some may say that I am already a veteran Member, but I am not, although perhaps a bit traditional - when you come up to this rostrum at the beginning of the budget debate you must know what your position is and whether or not you have agreed to a negotiation with the Government. At the moment, the PDCA is not in this situation, and I understand that there may be some group that is still here in this situation of indefiniteness. There's time, but there's not much left. It is true that when a law is dealt with as important as the budget law, with such a tight timetable, it certainly does not help to be able to negotiate paused enough and to reach the necessary agreements. Even so, it is also true that there is sufficient time and that this time is not yet exhausted. We have tabled many amendments. Some amendments, in fact, were clearly tax-based - they were in the tax rule section - and the Government, relying on the legal prerogative, vetoed them because they could entail lower incomes, and that also greatly limits the scope of negotiations in some respects. There are other amendments that are more territorial in nature, and we have tabled some because we understand that the budget must also reach each of the different territories and the different demarcations so that all citizens have access. The truth is that at the moment we do not have a closed position, there is still no agreement and we will try. But if they approve the budget - both with the votes of the PDC and without the votes of the PDC - the government has a great responsibility to implement it. The budget that was adopted last year, if it has had a weak point, has been budget implementation. I know that they are aware and that the Government is aware because it has recognized it. If another budget is approved and a budget is implemented such as this year, which is low and especially asymmetrical in the territories, it will be impossible for this House to re-trust the Government to approve other budgets. In any case, this will be the responsibility of the Government from a few weeks if the budget is approved. The Democratic Party will negotiate over the last few hours to see if the agreement is possible. I have already told you that there are some aspects in these budgets that we do not like, that we do not share and that we will not be able to resolve them in full with the amendments. The budgets that are currently being assessed in this House have a certain risk, such as any budget at the current juncture, such as that to be assessed in the Parliament of Catalonia, in any of the Chambers of the rest of the State and also in Europe as a whole. Why? Because the economic situation is a truly volatile situation, where there is little history to plan and predict what the evolution of the economy is. Some aspects of the macroeconomic picture cause us concern, however, we believe that it is more important at this time that governments take a lead, even if it is not exactly the right one, that they take no responsibility whatsoever. In any case, we'll see how it evolves. In advance, I will defend all our amendments and some of my colleagues and myself will defend some concretely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u12	Thank you, President. I want my first words today to be in spirit and solidarity with the two hundred public employees of the City of Alburquerque, in Badajoz, to whom almost twelve months of salary is owed. [[Applauds]] This is the clear example of the result of socialist policies, which, as in the budgets that we are beginning to discuss today, only bring misery and poverty where they go. We are beginning here today, in my group, to defend the 2100 amendments tabled. Yes, of the 2100s, even those hundreds that the government took care of vetoing in a shameful and undemocratic way. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what I show you are two exactly the same amendments, both on the tax benefits of Caravaca de la Cruz, year 2024, Jubilee Year. Exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen, you can check it out and you can see it. Well, exactly no, there is a difference between one and the other: in one comes the logo of the Socialist Group and in another comes the logo of the People's Group. In an arbitrary, blushing and anti-democratic decision, the Government vetoed one of them. You know which one? Do you find out? Can you imagine which one? He vetoed the People's Group. Two amendments are the same. The commitment of this Government to the most racist radicalism is becoming increasingly unbearable. I rise here today to denounce not only the veto of hundreds of amendments arbitrarily and against the lawyers, but to say that they will be able to veto our alternative plan in this law but will not make it disappear. The Spanish know that Pablo Casado offers them Spain in which they believe, with the lowest taxes, with greater freedom and with the strength of democratic and constitutional values. [[Applauds]] They can veto amendments, but they won't shut us up. These days they'll be able to check in person. Thirty-eight colleagues will come up here to defend the amendments in their sections, each with their accent, but all convinced of the alternative plan we offer for all Spaniards. This is our commitment to them, to oppose this government, finished and expired, putting forward an alternative plan, our plan. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we will discuss the worst possible budget at the worst possible time; budgets that all public and private bodies, and even the European Commission, have undressed these weeks. No one has had mercy on these accounts that, like those of 2021, are born dead. No one believes their 7 % growth by 2022; no one believes their growth in the form of V; rather, believe me, they serve as a general mockery for the rest of Europe. Spain dropped the economic collapse during the pandemic and, far from Sánchez's calculated and electoral optimism to lead the recovery, we will be the last to leave, the last developed country to reach its pre-crisis levels. Now one of you will come out - or you will all, as last week in the Commission - to tell me and my colleagues that we want Spain to go wrong. Save yourself the ridiculous, please. They present accounts that deepen even further in the territorial gaps, that punishes territories like Madrid simply because their government of freedom irritates them - and how much it irritates them! - or others like my land, Extremadura, simply because they know that there is a president surrendered to the sanchismo that will allow, without altering, that this week they approve amendments like those announced by the PNV to accelerate the Basque high-speed train, while the one that must unite Badajoz with Madrid will not be complete at least in this decade, when it has been fifty years since the first high-speed train in Spain was inaugurated. Is that really cohesion for a country, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? Stop talking about emptied Spain, because we, with this government, feel that Spain is vacillated - va-ci-la-da -. They govern for everyone, they vote for what they vote for; they narrow the gap and they don't make Spanish first and second; they don't try, because we won't allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets, which are born wounded by death, which increase structural spending in an alarming way, which raise taxes and generate inequalities, are intended to be approved as Spain starts to go out on the streets, while farmers go out to complain about the prices of inputs, about the excessive increase in inflation due to the government's futility, whose sectarian and ideological policies are leading to the beating of electricity prices day by day and to increase the queues of hunger in this country. These budgets, which are due to lapse, are being debated here today with an inflation of 5.5%, the highest figure in thirty years. And, beyond taking out Franco's wild card, does anyone remember any steps to fix it? Does anyone recall any budget amendments or budget lines that would contain this tax on the poor? Nothing, they cannot remember anything, because these budgets are a trapping of the real intentions of the government already communicated to Europe, as it is to raise taxes and create new tax figures, and continue - that is to say - with their authoritarian tics. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, here we checked one of those tics last week when, when an amendment to a COVID fund for the Autonomous Communities was adopted in the Committee on Budgets, the Government hastened to say that it would not execute it, that it would not execute it! My questions are: when they vetoed hundreds of amendments, in addition to its logo, what else were they looking at? If every amendment that is adopted and they do not like it is not going to be implemented, can you tell us what we Members are doing here this week? What are we here for? What is your respect for the democratic game? Their respect for the rules is null; their respect for this House is non-existent; their respect for the Members is a pantomime; their respect for the Spaniards is zero. They are not only destroying the spirit of the Transition with these attitudes and agreeing on these accounts and many amendments with those - what shame! - who do not condemn the terrorism that ended with hundreds of Spaniards, but are handing over the keys of the country to those who want to destroy it with their stellar cast of independence and nationalist partners. But you know what? We believe in our project; we know that our party has already had to rescue this country twice from governments like this and we know that it will be up to us to do so again. These days my colleagues will pose here an authentic alternative, a road map of a serious and committed party with Spain. These days we disarm these accounts even more and we will show the Spaniards that they need Sánchez to stay in Moncloa, but they are not the ones that the Spaniards need to get out of this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u14	Thank you. I am only going to make one speech throughout the afternoon and, as I did in the Commission, understanding that the timing of the debate is important, I would like to make a number of general considerations because I am not going to take the floor in all the sections. We said it and we say it again today: the Basque Nationalist Party shares the need for the state to have general state budgets that allow it to address the economic recovery resulting from the crisis of the COVID and to focus on the transformation of the economy in an exceptional context, as the rest of the administrations want. To have an updated budget, of course, is desirable not only to face the recovery after the crisis of COVID-19 and its economic and social consequences, but also to face the country's challenges that already existed according to the objectives set by the Government, as well as to reverse and convert austerity into investment in order to move towards a new economic and social model through, among others, European funds. Having said that, in this framework in which the budgets are drawn up, the Basque Nationalist Party has the clear and priority objectives, which are to work for the fulfilment of the Basque agenda and to defend the interests of Basques in Madrid. That is to put forward amendments to shield the forality, those relating to matters that are the competence of the State in the General Budgets of the State and, in addition, to support also those policies to improve the lives of people, to improve the welfare state and, ultimately, that welfare state reaches many more people. We welcome the amendments that we have managed to incorporate in the presentation and over the past week in the Commission the budgets and investments achieved for the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, but we are still in budgets and there is still a way to go. We have tabled amendments to boost R & D & I, cultural promotion, coastal actions, improvements in railway infrastructure, frequency increases, investments in hydraulic and competitive infrastructure; 41 amendments that have already been adopted in the paper and in the Commission. It has not been an easy process because the deadlines have been and are short and, moreover, as we have been saying, we are talking about a budget that is framed between two walls: a wall that corresponds to the general budget of the State - let us call it common or current budget - and another wall that includes the European funds, a part of the funds that is finalist and that can only be devoted to what has been agreed and committed by the State with Europe and that cannot be touched. Therefore, we find ourselves once again, as in 2021, with a budget with little room for change because the large items are actually in the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism or Section 50. That finalist part - as I said - cannot be touched. They are funds that need to be implemented efficiently and effectively to undertake those most transformative investments to change the productive economic model and to be able to move forward in that social contract, and they are funds that we do not believe can be underutilized and will therefore need coordination and governance with the autonomous communities. While I would also like to see the record of something that some political groups in this House are obviating or denying or refusing to recognise, it is that the amendments that are being adopted to the draft budgets are the result of dialogue and consensus between the various political groups with the Government. This has always been so, they will rule one or the other. Because the perception of each one's policy is not the real one, each group has a perception, one among many, and the perception or point of view of any group is as legitimate as that of the other, and it is from this point of view that we have to leave to negotiate. This is what my group has done, which has done nothing but dialogue and consensus. Finally, I would like to thank the stenographers, secretaries and also all the lawyers for the work they have done. Sometimes groups are not aware of the pressure with which they work in record time. So, thank you so much for your work and the patience that, at least with the spokesperson of this group, you have always had. I have no further amendments to these titles, and in any case I take for granted those that remain alive. If any, I'll make some other intervention later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u16	Thank you, President. From the seat, the Republican Parliamentary Group takes the view that its amendments are being defended from now on until the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u17	Thank you. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u18	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are beginning the debate on the adoption of the most important financial tool available to this Government, any Government, in order to give effect to its political will. Therefore, this project can be interpreted as a declaration of intent, as a landing programme for the common government of the next twelve months. What can we therefore deduce from the public accounts which are solemnly presented to this House today? Firstly, a clear awareness on the part of this Executive of the dramatic situation that many Spanish families are experiencing today as a result of a pandemic that does not, of course, send back, but also as a result of an economic model that has not stopped expelling to its margins a growing number of workers in recent decades, which has precarioused the daily lives of millions of people and has watered with uncertainty the expense of so many workers' neighborhoods. Faced with this, the government is proposing that we reach a historic peak in social spending next year, resulting in a non-financial spending limit that will for the first time exceed EUR 196 billion. This is how the purchasing power of pensions is guaranteed, the allocation and coverage of minimum living income are expanded, the allocations of dependency are increased by more than 600 million, the grant policies are strengthened by almost EUR 22 billion, the allocations for young people are increased by 85 % and the social bonus is increased, while the budget is increased to advance the universalisation of education from 0 to 3 years. For the first time, the share of €500 million for equality policies was exceeded, while a budget line was included to incorporate oral care into the National Health System. In short, an unmatched collective effort in our recent history that must, however, take us away from any exercise of self-congratulation. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the figures of inequality and poverty are still unabated. Arope's latest report warns us that at the beginning of the pandemic 4.5 million people in Spain were living in severe poverty, a million more than in 2008. Behind these numbers there are broken biographies, there are young people who stop studying for lack of resources, there are older people who see the last stretch of their lives approaching with anguish, there are helpless women who double their misery for being women. Anyway, there's so much to keep working that there's barely any time left for the car bomb. Therefore, these budgets must transcend the usual objectives associated with this mechanism, because we cannot, because we do not want to return to the old normality, to Spain before the COVID. This moment of crisis, of transformations that have occurred must also serve as a collective catharsis that allows us to finally catch the train of modernity; that train that in one way or another has escaped us over the last two centuries between chiefs, wars and dictatorships of diverse fur. Well, the burden of this train today is called European funds: EUR 27 633 million for this year, that is, 3.8% more than last year, with a significant variation in its composition, because, as is to be expected, the share of current expenditure in relation to capital expenditure falls. These funds are already reflected in the various budget headings and serve a strategic purpose: the increase in productivity in our economy without resorting to the old, easy and useless recourse of wage devaluations so typical of the previous years. In other words, it is now a matter of investing in people, not at their expense; of creating links of complicity between workers and entrepreneurs through better training or greater involvement of the former in business management, and of facing an inevitable process of digitisation, but doing so with a minimum of social empathy. We therefore believe that these budgets represent an unbeatable opportunity to update relations between the public and private sectors and thus ensure the necessary synergies between the two, because private initiative needs a strong State that offers it not only cheap financing and a clear legal framework, but a favourable and secure environment, predictable and effective action by the public authorities. Well, after a disastrous cycle, where the withdrawal of the State has been accompanied by cuts and absences, these budgets finally collect replacement rates of 110 % for civil servants and 120 % for special services. After more than a decade of claudications, ladies and gentlemen, the state returns. These budgets, moreover, must be implemented in a key year for the productive transformation of our country; one year, 2022, which will witness the implementation of two major reforms: on the one hand, a new framework of labour relations, in which the collective bargaining and the fundamental role of trade unions as legitimate representatives of the workers, in short, more rights for a more dynamic Spain, on the other hand, next year must also be the year of fiscal reform. I am not going to dwell on this point, as there will be time to talk about the fiscal issues in the course of these long budgetary debates ahead, but, in this task that I have proposed here today to offer an overview of these general budgets and their effects for next year, I cannot fail to mention this government initiative as a condition of possibility to see the changes that are to come: European funds, the new framework for labour relations and tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the elements that, combined virtuously, must serve to be definitively located in the twenty-first century. Today it is up to us to have the first, but let us not lose sight of how much we have left and how ambitious the task we have set ourselves as a country is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u19	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the acts have consequences, and these budgets, whose sections we are beginning to discuss today in this House, will also have them, without any doubt, because reality is always imposed. It is indifferent that some politicians still do not want to know, either by pretending that nothing is happening or by getting into their caviar bubble or, worse, as today, in the case of the members of this Government, absent from the most important debate of the year, which is that of the general budgets of the State. There is not a single member of the government present! A real shame. The Government pretends that nothing happens while they continue to adopt policies that lead us to the cliff. There can be no worse time to adopt such harmful budgets, because Spain is going through an economic situation that is not serious, but very serious and must be reacted to. Management at the beginning of the pandemic caused our country to suffer one of the largest economic collapses on the planet, a drop in gross domestic product of 10.8% for a country that had not yet been able to recover from the previous crisis. No other country experienced such a deterioration in its productive fabric, no other country closed so many companies, no other country destroyed so much employment, but what came later did not improve it. Last year at this point we discussed budgets that, by common sense, should have favored recovery, but they did not, in reverse. Instead of focusing spending on vital items for citizens, they decided to fire political spending: ministries, salaries, advisors, official cars. Instead of lowering taxes to boost growth, the government of Pedro Sánchez decided to raise them. We were the only country in Europe to raise taxes in the middle of the pandemic. They denied it up to four times in parliamentary office; personally I was denied it by the Minister of Finance, but they did not leave a tax behind. Instead of betting on growth and improved competitiveness by strengthening productive investment, which creates wealth and jobs, they decided to trigger structural spending, consolidating Europe's biggest deficit. And, of course, those budgets had consequences. The results are devastating. We get out weaker, with a public debt triggered that, ladies and gentlemen, we have to pay, which already exceeds 122% of our GDP and puts us in a situation of extreme vulnerability to a plausible rise in interest rates and - I will tell you more - affects our sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen, because when you have so much debt, creditors have a huge weight on the decisions you make, and, if not, ask the ineffable ZP, which had to bend to the demands of the countries holding our debt. We get out weaker, with a productive fabric bleeding out, with 17,000 companies less than before the crisis and with a slow and insufficient job recovery, because, despite the creation of more than 250 000 jobs, private employment is still far, far below pre-crisis levels, and everything is patched up with public employment. We get weaker, with worrying economic growth. Almost twenty months after the onset of the crisis, the long-awaited recovery has not just arrived. We are the most backward country in Europe in the recovery, but neither the failure of the previous budgets nor the weakness of consumption, nor the stagnation of industry, nor the fall of investment, nor the energy crisis, which has triggered 62 % of the price of light, nor the sharp inflation, which threatens the recovery, nor the crisis of raw materials and supplies, none of this makes it possible for you to correct the direction of uncontrolled accounts designed uniquely and exclusively for the stay of Pedro Sánchez in the presidency of the Government. They're coming back again today. Titles I and II of these budgets point to the safest path to ruin. First, because their accounts are born again dead, lacking any credibility. They're written on wet paper, with estimates of economic growth that nobody believes. It would have been wise to review the macroeconomic picture to bring it into line with the reality of the evolution of the Spanish economy and the finding of a slowdown, but you prefer to settle in your story, and you do it again. Last year they estimated economic growth at almost 10%; today almost no one believes that we are going to grow even in half. Twenty; not one or two or three, twenty study services, in addition to the Banco de España and the AIReF, have estimated that the Spanish economy will not grow by far what these budgets contemplate, but you don't care, those who come after it will already pay, because the important thing for Pedro Sánchez is to maintain that client network of political servitudes and payment of support to those who keep it in power. Ladies and gentlemen, much of the aid launched last year to deal with the extraordinary expenditure caused by the epidemic has disappeared, which has led to record budgets, but these budgets still exceed the previous ones, with more than €458 billion. This is explained by the fact that this is the government of the twenty-two ministries, the most numerous and best paid in history; it is explained by the fact that 45 per cent of the number of advisers elected by finger, 86 per cent by propaganda expenditure and 22 per cent by subsidies to trade unions; it is explained by the fact that in two years it triples the expenditure of a ministry, that of Equality, dedicated to financing ideological chiringuitos and to collecting those fallen in the courts of Spain, and it is explained by the gifts that, on account of the checkbook of all the Spaniards, ask them for partners who only want the worst for Spain. [[applause]] Again, instead of lowering taxes to promote growth and recovery, you are once again raising taxes in what constitutes a new tax haven to families, savers and also industry, because the rise to the registration tax comes at a delicate time for the automotive sector. The Government's propaganda presupposes an increase in spending on items that increase debt, but do not solve anything, because there is no week that the sectarianism of this Government does not take a measure that undermines our ability to grow and create employment and wealth. In just a few days they have introduced a housing law that will reduce the available supply and trigger prices; they have raised business contributions, which are already the highest in Europe, which will make it more difficult to create and maintain employment in a country with already unacceptable unemployment rates, and they have definitively condemned students, who will be able to graduate without having all the approved subjects and without the need for recovery examinations. Ladies and gentlemen, with these budgets we were playing a lot: the present of a productive fabric, which drowns in the face of the delay of a recovery that does not come, and the future of young people who will never be able to forgive Pedro Sánchez and his allies. These accounts not only consolidate the great deception of the Spaniards, they not only strengthen the harassment of pensioners; with these budgets they ruin young people, and our young people deserve a better future!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u21	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to tell the Spanish the truth, and the truth is that it is urgent, very urgent to change course 180 degrees, without complexes, without concessions either to the left or to separatism. And the truth is, there's only one party willing to do it. There's only VOX left! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u23	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days there has been talk of almost everything, a number of debates in parallel, but little about the budgets. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by saying that the budget bill is the most important law that the Government must submit to this House. Today we are marking the direction our country is taking, responding to great challenges and challenges. The Socialist Group is therefore proud that the Government will do so again. [[Applauds]] It is not an easy task either to present it or to process it, but, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are here, for dialogue, for negotiation, for consensus and for agreement. We all know, even if everyone does not recognise it, that these budgets are the instrument for following the path of protection and recovery. That is our priority, ladies and gentlemen, the path of development and the generation of opportunities. We've read and heard a lot of things from the right-hand bench. They keep repeating that these budgets are alien to reality, that they are out of context, that they do not provide solutions. Nothing good see, neither is anything new, always the breakup and always the denial. Things haven't come out the way you would've liked them, have they? And look what they've put on his side. We are sorry for you, but we are extremely happy for the citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] The Spanish economy is growing, the number of unemployed is shrinking, European funds are being made available for the generation of opportunities in this country, revenue forecasts improve and increase business profits. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Píriz, that you do hesitate. Spain's going well, Spain's moving forward. Relax, ladies and gentlemen of the right, we're going to exhaust the legislature. [[Applauds]] And it hasn't been easy, nor will it be. We know that we are always subject to possible external incidences - it has also been said here - that can affect us. That's why we do it face-to-face, with determination and responsibility. The processing of these budgets is essential, ladies and gentlemen, for stability, protection and recovery. The argument most sounded as a somewhat childish justification of several Members of Parliament are the vetoes, the roll. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there have always been vetoes. Do we remember Mr. Montoro's budget? Because any amendment that involves expenditure or decrease requires the Government's assent. And why don't you think that maybe the vetoes put you on your own? To plurality, diversity, progress, equality, and those are our red lines, there we always veto, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Píriz, have you done anything? Have you done anything for Spain in this budget? Their patriotism does not reach homes, does not reach businesses, does not reach women, does not reach young people, does not reach pensioners, nor does it reach public employees. They have a serious identity problem. One has to ask oneself every morning who we are and what we are here for, apart from to please the Francisco Franco Foundation, said in passing. [[Applauds]] Leave Mrs Ayuso alone doing the dirty work of VOX, leave her alone, Mr Casado, Your Honor, those who are wise and more consistent, if there is still one on that bench. I am also addressing Citizens; Mrs Muñoz, for what I have seen in defence of the vote against these budgets. They do not make the same mistake they have made in Andalusia. Mr. Marin has taken away all of them. [[Applauds]] That is indeed, Mr.Piriz, to fool us, because they are going to pay dearly; I tell you from this rostrum that they are going to pay dearly in Andalusia. The Andalusians are not going to be currency exchange, we are not going to be fooled. Don't play with Andalusians and Andalusians. Get away from the short-term policy and rise to it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The difference between you and us is that socialists are always faced with the needs and challenges of this country where we govern and, where we do not, grab our shoulders. Dealing with General State Budgets is one of the most satisfying tasks of the noble task of politics. There is nothing more like a number socialist than translating figures into opportunities and progress for the territories and for the people waiting for us. Right, Montse? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, the majority of this Parliament knows the importance of this budget and the responsibility for its adoption - not another - with the contributions that many and many of its Members have made, for their commitment decided by the young people, for defending the scholarships, for strengthening the dependency, by 46% more in housing, for revaluing the pensions, for managing the European funds in a sustainable investment bet so that they can be sustained over time, for research, for innovation and for science, and, ladies and gentlemen, after all we have experienced, for the shielding of universal and free public health. [[Applauds]] We also know that this is not their priority, but given the constant threat to the public health system, the best antidote is investment in universal and free public health. He taught us and offered it to this country Ernest Lluch. Yesterday twenty-one years of his assassination by ETA were completed. Some use victims and the pain of families, others follow their example and work... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u26	...for what they defended and for what they died. [[Prolonged applause]] Comrades and comrades of the socialist bench, our party is a democratic party by conviction - I always remember it - responds to the strengthening of democracy by governing as we are. And as a socialist at heart I know that the heart of the right enters into arrhythmia with this budget. Of course, they present, undoubtedly, another and for other purposes, with another distribution, with another exit from the crisis; if we know their prescriptions, gentlemen of the PP - we know their prescriptions -. But these budgets are the budgets of the social majority, are the budgets of the recovery for all, the budgets of rural Spain, of the Spain of the young, of the Spain that protects the women, of the Spain Caregiver, of the Spain tourist - near the Canary Islands and of La Palma, now more than ever -, of the Spain that keeps the public, of the Spain that generates wealth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u27	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u28	These are the budgets of the best version of Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u29	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title III We continue with the debate on Title III. In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u30	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is up to me to talk, as Mr Guijarro says, about the most important law for the Government of Spain every year, but, as you see, the Government of Spain shows an enormous interest in seeing how the debates of this law take place: the blue armchairs are all empty. And it's up to us to talk about personnel costs. Indeed, here we find ourselves with a frankly crazy budgetary policy. The Government of Spain and the high offices of the Government of Spain raise the salary by 2%. When it turns out that we Members have decided not to go up, it turns out that a secretary of state is going to win next year 1800 euros more a year. In addition, staff expenditure on advisers also increases by 5%. And in addition, politicians maintain that privilege that is called level 33, that is, that little mattress that officials have, like me, to whom, after spending two years in politics, we go back to the administration and they pay us a supplement. Because politicians are not citizens, we are superior. This is what the Spanish Government must think about the relationship between politicians and citizens. There is money for all this, for 2%, for 5% of advisers, for spending twenty-two ministries. For all this there is money, but for prison officials there is no money, for the military there is no money, and for the State Security Forces and Corpses there is no money. [[Applauds]] Is there money for the high offices? Yeah, but for the others, for those who really play the guy on the streets, for those not. I would like to draw your attention to our amendments Nos 265, 422, 430 and 160 so that we can all end this stumbling block. As my colleague Maria Muñoz has said before, it is that they do not even want to discuss it, it is that they have vetoed the amendments; it is not that they are not then approved, it is that they do not even want us to speak in the temple of the word, in the seat of sovereignty, of the amendments we have tabled. The government wants to lease a fiscal stalemate to all Spaniards. He wants me to raise corporation tax and enrollment tax. He wants the quotas of the self-employed to go up. He wants social security contributions to go up. He does not want deductions in the IRPF for retaining the talent of researchers, for pension schemes, for hiring domestic workers, for rental companies, for startups, for depopulation, for teleworking, to buy low-emission vehicles. For this the government does not want tax deductions. It makes us a sablazo to pay for the party of the high charges and to pay for the party of the PNV, of Bildu and of the Republican Left of Catalonia. The Government does not want to lower VAT on hairdressing services, does not want to lower VAT on masks, does not want to lower VAT on electricity bills, does not want, for example, to give up land in Palma de Mallorca to build 950 social housing units, but prefers a housing law with the intervention of rental prices, which will produce the opposite effect, raise rental prices. He does not want a national plan against suicide, when eleven citizens in Spain commit suicide every day. There's no money for that. To pay your wages, there is money. They do not want to extend paternity and maternity leave and conciliation. They don't want a birth promotion plan. They do not want the dependent child benefit that we are being claimed by NGOs as important as Save the Children, but the minimum living income does not reach half of its recipients. They do not want to invest 3% of gross domestic product in science. They do not want tourism's VAT to fall to 4%. They do not want a tourism aid plan of EUR 20 billion. They don't want the Self-care Plan. They don't want a digital plan for SMEs. They don't want a photovoltaic power plan for the buildings. They don't want to end sinogarism. They do not want it to be financed, they do not want the disability training plan to be promoted. They do not want scholarships so that the Spanish can study at other universities in Spain. They do not want European funds to be awarded in an objective way. What they want is to raise their salary. What they want is to have more advisors. What they want is that when they return to the administration they can charge more money, because this, the most progressive government in history, has neither heart nor shame. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u31	Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. We are beginning the debate on budgets which for the BNG, as we have explained in the whole debate, are clearly better and, in many respects, insufficient. However, we decided not to table an amendment as a whole to give room and an opportunity for dialogue and negotiation in order to improve them. Because, in our view, we lack a clearer and more determined bet on social policies and, in particular, on a fairer and more redistributive fiscal policy that will make more people pay and lighten the tax burden on the popular classes. But also because the territorialized investment in Galicia, despite the increase produced, which places us in a slightly better - only slightly - scenario than that of the budgets of 2021, in which the investment fell, remains clearly insufficient to compensate for the historical deficit in investments in infrastructure, equipment and services in our country, in Galicia, and to meet the peremptory needs of the present, especially for the modernization of our internal railway network and for the implementation of essential services, such as that of railway proximity, which still does not exist in Galicia. They are insufficient because they do not provide for measures to tackle the serious industrial crisis in Galicia, with closed companies and hundreds of jobs lost in recent months, and with other key companies in crisis and at risk of disappearing. We are therefore concerned that the Government's forecasts do not incorporate measures to ensure, for example, through public intervention, the continuity of Alcoa in La Mariña and the safeguarding of all jobs, or to promote alternative economic activities in the areas affected by the closure of thermal plants in Cerceda and in As Pontes, in order to ensure a truly fair transition. Therefore, as it is not in the Government's forecasts and with the aim of improving these budgets, the Galego Nationalist Block introduced almost three hundred amendments, which not only express our priorities, but above all reflect the solutions to obvious problems and concerns shared by the whole of Galician society. I am not going to advance the voting position of the BNG - we will do it tomorrow - but I do want to appeal to the parties that make up the Government - to the PSOE and to the United Nations We can - to consider the amendments of the BNG as an opportunity to improve the budget and to comply with Galicia, including the implementation of measures that are contained in the investiture agreement of almost two years ago and that are still waiting for the Government to decide to implement them. I also appeal to you to explain to all the Galicians that, by being able to undertake much-needed actions, we lose another opportunity to do so. The disappointment caused by the failure of those who rule is, on many occasions, the breeding stock of anti-politics and populism that always feeds to the right and the right. We are talking about ensuring industrial activity and employment; promoting new economic projects within the criteria of just transition; establishing an efficient, efficient and sustainable public transport system, such as railways, with adequate services; rehabilitating and regenerating our ria; providing adequate care for dependence; combating gender-based violence with more means, for example, through new specialized courts; resolving the injustice of tax treatment of returning migrants; promoting the normalization of Galician government and its presence in the public or audiovisual media; raising minimum pensions or, as I said, imposing taxes on the richest people in order to be able to lower them, for example, in the VAT of essential products to the people's classes. In any case, the BNG maintains and maintains a consistent position in defence of Galicia's interests. We will do so throughout the debate on these budgets and we will continue to do so in our social and institutional activities in Galicia and also in this Congress of Deputies, simply because that is our raison d'être. [[Finish your intervention in Galician]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u33	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Bas Corugeira.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u34	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Applauds]] I would like to begin by expressing my group's appreciation to all public employees, who demonstrate their great professionalism and responsibility in the performance of their duties every day. His excellent commitment contrasts with the disastrous attitude of this oversized Government, for which the common good of our country is not its priority, and a clear example is both the general budgets of last year and those we are debating today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said and acknowledged by the Socialist Party, we are facing the veto budgets. The proposals of the opposition groups have been indiscriminately vetoed, bearing in mind this sign of authoritarian identity that this Government has in exercising its political action. It is a sign of authoritarian identity proper to totalitarian regimes, which ignores, when it does not hide, the reports of the lawyers of the Chamber if they do not bend to the ideological road map marked from Moncloa. It is a sign of disrespectful identity, which defines a Pedro Sánchez who governs at the stroke of royal decree-law and who promotes these vetoes to avoid parliamentary debate and silence the voice of opposition groups. [[Applauds]] And the vetoes applied to the amendments to these budgets are due to that form, to that line of order and command that has been established in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, these vetoes prevent us from discussing and voting on many amendments that would leave the PSOE-Pode coalition, as it is, a hypocritical and cheating government, to be portrayed before Spanish society. And Title III was no exception. Our group has tabled amendments to this title in order to encourage recruitment and enhance public services in the various sectors and administrations, and thus to recover the volume of public employees that was reduced by the Zapatero crisis. That is why we call on the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Autonomous Police Forces and the local police to be considered priority sectors and to have their replacement rate of 130 per cent. And in order to give a boost to basic, translational and clinical research in hospitals and centers of the National Health System we also ask that they do not compute for the replacement rate the places corresponding to research personnel that are created in these centers. Unfortunately, the Government has vetoed these two initiatives. Of the amendments we have tabled under this heading, number 972 remains alive, which proposes that priority be given to the replenishment rate for public sector research staff, and number 495, which proposes a replenishment rate of 120 % for all sectors in those local entities with their amortised financial debt. In relation to this Finally, and as you all know, the municipalities saw increased so-called improper skills, but without the corresponding allocation of economic and material human resources. As a result, many mayors have had to live in limited situations and with the helplessness of not being able to provide quality public services, as a result of an alarming shortage of staff. These are therefore two necessary and timely amendments, and I therefore call on the groups to reflect on them and to give them their support. Amendment 918, which refers to the salaries of senior officials and members of the Government, also remains alive. It was unacceptable for the Government to raise its salary when most Spaniards had seen their family income cut as a result of a crisis that had been aggravated by their poor management. And it is difficult to propose an increase in salary to the Executive and, at the same time, they see our proposal for an increase in salaries to all the military officials of the Ministry of Defence, a proposal that is supported by an initiative that has been approved by the relevant Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the most expensive and inefficient government of democracy. Sánchez is very expensive to the Spaniards. Compared to the last government of the People's Party, the Sánchez administration's structure has increased its annual cost by more than EUR 108 million, reaching EUR 789 million for next year. It includes two thousand people among senior officials, advisors and trusted personnel, 37% more than in the last Popular Party government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable that Minister Montero embraces the Spanish at taxes by reducing their purchasing power and that she is rewarded with an increase in their salaries. It is unacceptable for Minister Escrivá to demand a new economic effort from the self-employed by raising social contributions and for him to see his salary increased. It is intolerable for transporters, farmers and farmers to be at the limit of survival by increases in energy prices and for Vice-President Ribera, responsible for aggravating the problem, to be paid up. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a mockery that, with six million citizens suffering severe poverty and the tails of hunger increasing, this government of Tandem Pedro Sánchez-Yolanda Díaz dares to raise its salary, laughing at the economic precariousness and the living conditions to which they are subjecting the Spaniards. Members of the Government cannot be given an increase in their annual remuneration. The Royal House has been running since 2018 without a salary increase. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government must be exemplary and must empathize with the difficulties that the Spanish are going through. We therefore call on the rest of the groups to support our amendment to freeze salaries to senior officials and members of the Government, in just correspondence with the situation in the country. Finally, I would like to reiterate our appreciation for the work of all public employees, whom we consider to be genuine guarantors of the quality public services that our country needs so much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Bass Corugeira. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The People's Party is coming here to talk about vetoes. I think it would take a single piece of information to disassemble your reasoning: compare the number of vetoes that you have made to the amendments in the last budgets that you approved as a government in 2018 and those that are currently being implemented. [[The lady]] But it is that, moreover, in the XII Legislature you systematically applied the veto to overthrow any initiative that came out of this House; you had no majority and many initiatives that went with alternative policies to what you represent and, by the veto, either by blocking the Bureau of Congress in the process of amendments, you were able to paralyze them. Coming here to talk about vetoes is curious. And if we talk about salaries, I'll tell you that what's really unacceptable are the bonuses, those that you've been systematically charging out of what's collected in no budget. [[applause]] I think this is what is truly unacceptable. Finally, I will tell you that we do make a positive assessment of what is included in this Title III. We understand that it is a continuation of the expansionary policies already made in 2012 and we believe that it demonstrates once again the commitment of this Government to the defence of the public. On the other hand, we also understand that you come up here - both you and your partners in the VOX party - and talk to us about vetoes, Venezuela, ETA or any other issue, but do not talk in depth about what the budgets represent or involve, among other things because they are budgets that are aimed at favouring the working classes, at favouring social rights. Therefore, if you went up here and told us that the real reason why you don't like these budgets is because they are budgets that stand on the side of the majority and not on the side of the privileged always, you probably wouldn't end up voting for anyone. But politics is like that. In politics one has to choose, usually between defending the interests of the social majority or defending the interests of the vulture funds, the multinationals and others who, among other things and as I said before, financed their bonuses and their campaigns in B. This government, both last year and this year, has chosen and taken sides by the social majorities. Therefore, as I say, we are not surprised that you have to talk about anything other than what these budgets entail. [[The Lord]] And that is that in the matter of the public, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot give any lessons. We all know what his model was. Its model was cutbacks, austerity, and zero replacement rates. Its model was - and we know what the intention was - to degrade public services to justify either outsourcing, or privatization of services. We already know what happens: they stop financing public services, punish their staff, fire workers and, when public services do not work as well as they should, private insurance is offered, services are outsourced or directly privatized. That was their model and that is precisely what this Government is fighting against and, as I say, what they do not like. There is no need to go back to what they did when they were government in the state, because today they continue to rule in autonomous communities and their model is that applied in Andalusia or that applied in the Madrid Community. His model is to applaud the toilets in the afternoon and, when the time comes, fire them. That's his model. Their model is to bring public services to the limit in order to benefit - as I say - the private businesses of those who financed - we do not know if they will continue to finance - their campaigns in B. [[Applauds]] Finally, in the face of this model, this Government is committed to the defence of the public, to the defence of the general interest and to the improvement of the working conditions of workers in the public sector. We know that much remains to be done to reverse everything they left us and all the damage they did to public services with their policies. We also know that the increase in replacement rates is not yet sufficient. And we know that the more than 100,000 public employment places that have been launched in recent years are still not enough, but at least at least they are beginning to reverse and every year they are taking steps out of the dynamics that you have put us into. You can continue to come up here and preach the seven plagues of Egypt that will bring these budgets - I will not deny you the right to kick - but in the meantime we will continue to adopt policies, such as these PGEs and so many other similar ones in what we have in the legislature, which serve to defend the general interest, to protect the public and to improve people's lives. And if they don't like it, then as it is usually said, garlic and water. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u37	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Another year we are here talking about the state's budgets, their accounts and their stories, because this is what they really are, stories. The Banco de España, the IMF and the General Council of Economists have questioned the growth data on which the budgets are based and, therefore, the expected revenues from them. That's why they're stories. And if we are talking about personnel costs, we must remember that this government still lacks respect for all Spaniards, because, despite the evil that many are going through, not only have they not reduced the number of senior officials and more than a thousand advisers, but they are trying to increase by more than 5%. We told him last year: it is indecent to place the burden on the Spaniards to bear an elephantic government which, in addition, is dedicated to hiring as advisers criminals and 'criminals'. [[Applauds]] This government, despite what Mr Honrubia says here, has not come to improve the lives of people, but to improve the lives of their people. What's more, it increases political spending, because public money is nobody's, right? Let us give examples of staff waste. In the maximum room, the Ministry of Equality, a cave of sectarianism, misandria and recently also of crime, is intended to increase its staff by 130 people, including advisers, officials and potential staff, i.e. advisers; this means increasing the staff by more than 121.5%, implying an annual increase in expenditure of around EUR 2 million. Another ministry with a contrasted futility is that of Universities. Well, it seems that so much workload makes it necessary to increase the number of staff by 112, including officials and advisers, which is 65% more by 2022 and a minimum extra expenditure of EUR 1.7 million. But what competence does this ministry have? Were they not transferred to the autonomous communities? On the other hand, despite what the Government sells, the increase in police officers, both in the Police Directorate-General and in the Civil Guard Directorate-General, is 0.5% and 1.7% respectively for the coming year. Do you think that with such poor numbers you can fight, for example, against the insecurity of the Spanish because of the uncontrolled entry of illegal immigration? Can this be fought against the massive assaults on our borders? Can this be fought against organized drug trafficking in the Gibraltar Field? Obviously not, because the Government is not here to protect people's lives, but the privileges of its people. [[Applauds]] How can the Government explain to us that the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions is going to lose, by the year 2022, 1348 officials, that is, 5.6% of its total staff? How will this ensure the safety of prison officials in their jobs? Well, less bad than these places and police officers are considered, in section 20.1.3 of the bill, as priorities for replenishment, less bad, right? That is true, they continue to maintain a structure of twenty-two ministries and three vice-presidents of the Government that will cost us all over EUR 1 700 000 for the coming year; without twenty-three secretaries of state and assimilated, nineteen undersecretaries and assimilated, and tens and tens of directors-general and assimilated. The account for the coming year of this immense government amounts to about 20 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, with whom you are falling, do you think it is decent to make us pay so much vice president, so much minister, so much high office and so much adviser? Look, if, as I imagine, you do not find the necessary decency, it is that you have never cared about the real emergencies that the Spaniards suffer, which are neither climatic nor amnesic memory nor gender, however fluid it may be. Maybe it sounds like an electrical emergency to you, don't you think? If this is not enough, it turns out that the Spanish Government is going to raise the salary by 2% next year, while Members of Parliament, in an exercise of responsibility, are going to freeze the salary as corresponds to this historic moment of economic catastrophe. What has the Government done to earn him a salary increase? Let us see, according to the data managed by the European Commission Spain will grow this year 2 percentage points less than planned by the Government; and for next year 1.5 percentage points less than planned by the Government. This scenario puts the Spanish economy at the tail of Europe's leading economies. The management of the Government of Spain, therefore, is being detrimental. They have forced businesses to close, prevented many people from earning bread, are hiding behind the autonomies in order not to respond for their negligent management of the pandemic, are frying us to taxes and, on top of that, have massively amputated us, illegally, fundamental rights. What salary increase can such a government deserve? Here the democratic anomaly is that no one has yet resigned. Finally, I will recall that the systematic ill-treatment of the remuneration rights of the National Police Corps, the Civil Guard, the Army and the judicial officials and lawyers continues. [[Applauds]] The Government and its partners continue to impede the adequacy of one another and the equalization of wages of others, which is theirs by law and by law. But, of course, can one expect anything else from those who rule with those who slander the judiciary and kick the cops? They say from the government that they expect nothing from my parliamentary group, but not expecting anything is always better than expecting the worst. If we know anything about VOX, this is the worst government possible, at the worst possible time, like their budgets. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u39	Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u40	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I, who take the debates with great interest when it comes to speaking, was telling me in the chair that when the Spaniards see this debate, they will wonder what we are talking about if everyone here sells their book, everyone talks about unrelated issues that have nothing to do with Title III. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to explain, so that the citizens know what we're discussing, what it is. Title III consists of three chapters and, in essence, speaks of the costs incurred by public sector personnel and the remuneration system of the entire public sector in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to start by saying the basics: this government is presenting in this House a 2% increase to 2.7 million public employees in our country. Of course, it is difficult for some to accept it because, from this rostrum, Mr Casado goes up and comes to say that we could not go up to public employees when, ladies and gentlemen, we have been doing it two years in a row: 0.9% last year and 2% this year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do a fundamental job and not just thanking the mouth, here in the rostrum, with a 'thank you to the public employees', no. They vote in favour of the rise in salaries of public employees and would show that they really believe in it. [[Applauds]] The rest is simply posture, ladies and gentlemen. But, moreover, since President Sánchez arrived, through a motion of censure, to the government, he has clearly bet on the public and he has bet on the increase in replacement rates. Ladies and gentlemen, in five years you had a zero replacement rate. They have no credibility to go up here, no one, and talk about replenishment rates from the People's Party when it was decent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Speaking of public employment, I'm going to give you exact data. In the three years Mr Sánchez is President of the Government, more than 109 000 public employment places are on offer in our country, the largest in history, and each year rising. So, too, it is a more public commitment, with all the essential workers, with what it has meant in our country to show that the public serves, ladies and gentlemen, to get out of the pandemic, to make citizens stronger because the public services they do is to unite, what they do is to help each and every Spaniard when they need it most. In that too, apart from recognizing it, we are betting and bringing to this House, so that all of you will vote, whether you commit or not, as they say here sometimes, but then vote against your interests. If public services are basic, the settlement of the welfare state in our country is fundamental. And there is no more formula for establishing the welfare state than having good public services with workers who may have all the necessary measures to do the best of their day to day. In this, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased because in our country with a socialist government, with a government with Unity Podemos, a progressive government increases the number of workers. We are already over 2.7 million public workers. In that too, ladies and gentlemen, we hope you will vote in favour because then, when we bring him to this House, you fill your mouths, but you vote against. The truth is, I know that Mr Casado needs a lot of things, but he also needs a little bit of learning in public employment, because what we all saw the other day: getting to compare some officials like forest agents with goats, shows that he knows very little. That, together with what it takes, that doctoral thesis, to talk about solar energy and accumulators. Surely you need a few afternoons, ladies and gentlemen, to learn a little bit about what you're talking about. [[Applauds]] Forgive me, Mr. Bal, but that you go up to this rostrum to talk about what you've been talking about. I will be honest with you, I will give you all the credibility of the world if, when you leave this session, your group, which governs with the People's Party in the Courts of Castile and Leon, presents an amendment to lower that 2% that wants to rise the Council of Castile and Leon. [[shows a press clipping]] I am a Segovian and the Junta de Castilla y León wants to raise that percentage on my land. So I hope, if you have credibility, the amendment you are going to table. [[Applauds]] If not, from now on, Mr Bal, when you get up here you will have zero credibility; zero because you teach lessons when you, where you rule, do the opposite. I would also like you to present in this plenary how many citizens' activists who have been public office are not charging for what is referred to in that famous amendment 33. It would also give much credibility because, Your Honor, everything else is populism. [[Applauds]] When the liberals the ultra-right applauds them very badly the liberals go, Your Honor, very badly they go. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, with something that seems terrible to me. Here you have to give data and we all have to be honest with the data. In our country, ladies and gentlemen, in seven years of the People's Party there are 11,000 fewer Civil Guard and Police officers. With the Government of Spain since 2018, 10,000 net positions. In just three years, practically, the drastic staff cut-off has been washed away to ensure security on our streets. Something they're so worried about, but when they rule, they do the opposite: trying to privatize. So public safety lessons to this government, zero, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with something that I also think is very important. I'm heading to the People's Party bench. [[Show another press clipping]] I am sure you are so concerned about the rise in the salaries of governments and the amounts paid by the presidents and autonomous councillors that in the Community of Madrid - they all earn more than 100,000 euros, 18,000 euros more than any minister - you will also present an amendment to the budgets of the Community of Madrid To lower the salaries that Mrs Ayuso and the councillors have. [[Applauds]] Surely, ladies and gentlemen, you are already drafting it to present it because, if you do not, unfortunately, you will fall once again into incongruity, because you seek only excuses for not recognizing what our country needs: an opposition, at this time so complicated, collaborative; an opposition that will help to get ahead of the country and get the best quotas for our citizens. As we have seen, you are in another war, surely in which there is between Madrid and Mr Casado; in that war you are still you and you do not have time for other things. [[rumors]] I'm sorry and much more to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u41	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Titles IV and VIII, and Section 07, Passive classes We move on to the joint debate on Titles IV and VIII and to Section 07, passive classes. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, these Titles IV and VIII of the Budget Act deal with social contributions and public pensions and what better time to say that this morning the Congress has debated in the Labour Commission and has passed the law reforming pensions over and over. [[Rumors]] Pensions are a matter of state that must be negotiated until consensus is reached, but this Government has entered this House as an elephant in a casketry, breaking the intergenerational pact, breaking the territorial pact and breaking the social dialogue. No pacts or consensus have been sought. In fact, the agreement has been closed in extremis with Esquerra and Bildu this morning in the same Commission. If the General State Budgets Act is the most important of the year, the Pension Reform Act that was passed this morning is the most important for future generations. It is an outrage - from here I denounce it again - to deal with pension reform in this way; it is an outrage for this House, an outrage for citizens and a lack of respect for future generations to deal in forty-eight hours, with an hour and a half debate, the law that will mark the future of the welfare state and of the next generations, as I said. The Government has introduced the intergenerational equity mechanism at the presentation stage with night and lightness. He said he was doing it because he had reached an agreement with the social partners. He was reminded this morning that the agreement has been with a part of the social partners, because, of course, it has also been obvious that the employer has risen from this agreement. The Government is shielded from this agreement with the social partners, but it cannot be shielded from the social actors who are in charge of labour legislation, because only the General Courts have the representation of Spanish citizens as a whole and only the legislative power resides in them. Social dialogue has its role, which is very important, but those on the table representing everyone are not them, but Parliament. It says very badly about the democratic credentials of this Government that we have been negotiating with social actors for more than a year and a half, at least four months negotiating the intergenerational equity mechanism, and that today we have closed in an hour and a half and this mechanism has been debated in Congress in 48 hours. Never a saying like telling me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack was so true, because this mechanism has anything but equity and intergenerational; a rumbling name that all it means today - we'll see in next year's budgets - is to raise social contributions, damaging job creation and burdening on the backs of our precarious young people the support of pensions. Two things were alleged by the Government to argue that this mechanism was necessary. One - I said - because it replaces the sustainability factor approved by the People's Party, which we recognize. The sustainability factor of the PP was so unfair and so insolidary that it was not even implemented by the PP. But, of course, the Government wants us to believe that there are only two possible alternatives, placing us before a dichotomy that is not such: a mechanism of intergenerational equity or a factor of sustainability. The PP, the PSOE. Either fear or death. Or bad or worse. And that dichotomy is unacceptable. Did the sustainable pension factor of the PP have equity problems? Yes, but it is that the MEI, the intergenerational equity mechanism, also has them. And since our work as Members is nothing other than to make good laws, we cannot replace a bad proposal with a worse one. But it is also in this mechanism that the Government says that it will create a reserve fund to save the future pensions of the next generation, of the baby boomers generation. He says nothing's going to happen, that the cost isn't going to fall on the young. It is so comfortable to say that, since there are more baby boomers than young people together, baby boomers will contribute more to the reserve fund than young people. In short, the intergenerational equity mechanism that the Government has put in place for us with footwear assumes that baby boomers' contributions will pre-finance the financing of baby boomers, while young people's contributions will also finance baby boomers' pensions. Mine is for me, and yours is for me, too. That's how socialism is. And I would like to be very clear, because it seems that no one is thinking about the young people of this country, or if they are thinking about them it is not precisely to listen to them. Today, the average salary of a young person under the age of 30 is 17,700 euros per year. Today, a newly incorporated pensioner has an average pension of EUR 19,800, representing a difference of EUR 2000 per year. While young people are still unable to access decent employment, they are still unable to carry out a life plan because they are unable to access housing at a reasonable price, cannot form a family and do not think about it, the Government is once again betting that they will continue to pay their debt and squeeze more and more workers to whom they cannot even guarantee that they will receive a pension. This is the point where these titles make sense, because we are going to whip even more young people. It is an option of this Government and it was an avoidable option. Another alternative could have been sought. Let us change that mechanism of inequity that burdens most of the expenditure on young people and it is those who are most unemployed, more precarious and above all they are not even guaranteed the sustainability of pensions. With my parliamentary group, they do not count on condemning young people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u43	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. We have heard that the People's Party is concerned about the remuneration of the Bourbons. It will be a matter of priorities. We are concerned about the salaries of workers and public employees, and therefore we are tabling an amendment to increase the salaries of public employees by 5% to prevent them from losing purchasing power and, moreover, with the conviction that in the end the salaries of public employees also mark a reference for the rise of wages in the private sector and, therefore, I think it is important for all workers. The People's Party will be concerned about the allocation to the Royal House, a corrupt Royal House, which has been enriched - as far as we know and probably much more - illegally over the past forty years. We are concerned about the resources the public administration has to be able to improve services, and that is why we are also tabling an amendment to eliminate that troop replacement rate that you have held for years and which unfortunately also maintains - albeit a little more relaxed, but maintains it - the government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. We are aware that eliminating the troop replacement rate is not only necessary to improve public services, it is also essential to solve the problem of temporality, which is now intended to be solved by another way. We know that without eliminating the rate it will not be fully possible. In any case, we are shocked by this concern about wages, about allocations to the Bourbons. We expect the Bourbons to return everything stolen and leave, as they did in 1931. We will win in public resources, we will save in corruption and, above all, we will win in democracy. I imagine that the People's Party will also be concerned about the retirement of the runaway Bourbon in the United Arab Emirates as a king. Well, look, we're worried about the retirement of all the workers. That is why we are putting forward an amendment to increase minimum pensions, because that is the only way to narrow existing gaps: the gender gap and the territorial gap. It is known that women have lower average pensions than men and it is also known that Galicia has the second lowest pensions in the Spanish State. We repeat it because it is very obvious. The province of Ourense has the lowest pension in the whole of Spain, little more than 800 euros per month, more than 500 euros below the average pension in Madrid and more than 600 euros below the highest average provincial pension, which is that of Vizcaya. It is therefore essential to raise minimum pensions. It is good to guarantee purchasing power in relation to the CPI, but until minimum pensions are raised, justice will not really be done. And, curiously, the government parties in their electoral programs, the PSOE and Podemos, carried this commitment to raise minimum pensions. The Coalition Government's programme also includes this commitment to raise minimum pensions. The question, therefore, is why they do not. Of course, today's agreement knows little, because it seems to us terribly vague and inconcrete: to study within a year what will be the evolution of minimum pensions within the framework of social dialogue and in relation to the inter-professional minimum wage. He really doesn't tell us much. When do you plan to meet the commitment to raise minimum pensions? Do so already in these budgets, because I think that is what all the retired and retired are waiting for, and that is what all the Socialist Party and Podemos voters are waiting for, depending on the electoral commitment they set out in that direction. Older people, what we see is that the government parties not only do not reverse the cuts in pensions from previous years, 2011 and 2013, but they consolidate them and add others or threaten others. The project currently under discussion not only does not reverse, for example, the delay in retirement age from 65 to 67 or the calculation period from fifteen to twenty-five years, but also penalises early retirements, even with forty years of contributions - we will bet that it is not penalised from thirty-five years of contributions - and encourages delayed retirements. And, as I said, older people are threatening us with a further rise in the calculation period from 25 to 35 years, which would represent a further fall in pensions of between 6% and 10%. Frankly, this does not seem to us to be the path of a government that is called progressive, that is to say, acting, as did the governments of the People's Party, through cuts, rather than seeking to increase social security contributions. And it is perfectly possible to do so. How? By reducing working hours without reducing wages, by promoting an effective youth employment plan that will make more contributors, by increasing wages, because this will also affect the increase in social security contributions, by pursuing fraud, including tax fraud, because there is nothing to prohibit pensions, if necessary, from being able to feed on the State's general budgets as well. These are the progressive ways of guaranteeing decent public pensions to all workers and not precisely those of cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u45	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pérez Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The lady]] On Title IV, public pensions. In this section we highlight Article 36, which states that pensions of the Social Security System, as well as Passive Classes, will experience an increase in the average percentage value of the CPI in 2022. Let us remember that a fixed revaluation rate of 0,9 % was previously established. This is a victory for pensioners' groups and their claim to link the revaluation of pensions to the CPI. [[Applauds]] It is also worth mentioning Articles 43, 44 and 45, which extend by EUR 232 million each of the headings covered by each of them. With regard to section 7, I would like to highlight here that there is an increase in the number of passive class items by 1 billion for the increase in civil servants' retirements. Here the question arises: have those retirement breaks been covered with new civil servants' positions? Because the replacement rate theory is one hundred percent, let's hope it is, and let's not continue with the administration's slimming process already started a few years ago. With regard to Title VIII, on social security contributions, before I begin, I would like to point out the following: the public pension system operates under five principles and, without obviating any of those fundamental points, I would like to focus on the principle of sufficient benefits, which says that the amount of benefits must be sufficient to ensure the needs protected. Having said that, I would like to reflect on what happened a few days ago in the negotiation of the new system of contributions for the next ten years, which increases by 0.6% and whose sole purpose is to sustain and encourage pensioners to maintain their purchasing power without taking off or squandering. Unfortunately, the CEO has abandoned this negotiation. They seem to have forgotten that pensions are key vaults in the welfare state, it seems that it will not go with them to save the future of pensioners and workers, those workers who for years have contributed with their efforts to the support of the welfare state and the magnification of their own businesses. [[Applauds]] By the way, I don't remember the bosses protesting when the bank graciously received billions, many of them already lost. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, what I had to say in relation to the three paragraphs outlined is acceptable and brief in terms of numbers, but, as the popular collection says, numbers sing, and sometimes decommission. Sometimes it defuses because behind those numbers that are written on the papers there are always people. This is where I want to hit. Outside there are thousands of people who every day try to overcome serious difficulties to reach the end of the month, difficulties that were created by round numbers agreed by a liberal government that benefited, without any doubt, the financial system and the big employer, while completely deregulating the labour market and restricting the rights of all workers. That is why this progressive coalition government has embarked on a path that must not be reversed. Measures have been taken and must continue to be taken to alleviate the social and labour crises that we have. This government has to return to the citizenry the rights that were taken away by a neoliberal system that has made possible an infamous temporality, an unprecedented job insecurity, a loss of unusual talent, since our young people, the best prepared, are engaged in migrating or accepting jobs where earning a salary of 1000 euros is practically a utopia. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental pillar of the welfare state that we want for our country - all, I believe - is based on decent, well-paid work that allows people to carry out their vital project, on contributions that are in line with the wages received and on pensions, in their different ways, well-paid and that cover our elderly people to our less-favoured compatriots. And all of this must be supported by a State that guarantees these principles, which maintains the just control that ensures that this mandate is carried out in the established terms, prevailing the principle of solidarity that must exist in a State governed by democratic law, predisposing that the most have the most contribution and contributing everyone, each to our just extent, to maintaining a solid State and a life worthy of all people. While this government of progressive coalition tries to reverse the aggravation of social and labour rights caused by the abuse of privileged ones against the bulk of the citizenry - worth as an example the millions handed over to the banks or the systematic emptiedness that they made in the hut of the pensions - we are again faced with an attitude of the great employer and some public servants, at least in solidarity. This government has been fortunate, unfortunately, to deal with one of the greatest crises in recent history, and is doing so by trying to save the most disadvantaged, the least likely to react, day by day. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets must contain the items, adjustments and funds necessary to enable the precise actions to be taken to comply with what our workers, our young people and our pensioners demand in justice, and this is reflected in the agreed government agreement. Comply. We need to take a first step that will allow us to explore all the possibilities that equal minimum wage pensions and we must work to offer the best future to our young people, with a job, a salary and decent contributions that will enable their emancipation, because, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the dystopia that has been taking place since the PP's labor reform was made, which we have met with thousands of people who, having a job, were still in poverty and social exclusion, all because the wages they were paying were low and, of course, without any guarantee. We've seen this over the past few years. Finally, I want to say that the system works for the benefit of the people if the people who manage it want it to. The accounts will be well provided that the public pension system is shielded and that our young people have decent jobs and contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that it is politics that must dispose of and the economy that must comply with the provisions; it must be so for the greater benefit of the majority, because when it happens backwards, as we have already lived with another government in the past decade, the injury to the weakest is assured. Before I retire, I want to publicly show my solidarity with the metal workers in Cadiz. [[Applauds]] And not only with them, but also with all those who before, now and then claim what is rightfully theirs: a job, a salary and decent contributions; a present and a clear future and no shocks, not to be permanently threatened by unscrupulous entrepreneurs and with huge benefits that drown their people. [[The applause continues]] And I'm talking about the metal compañeros of Cadiz, those of automotive, of Alcoa, of Vodafone, of the riders, of Uber, of Coca-Cola, the companies that represent a...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u47	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u48	...wild neoliberalism, where the human being is below the great numbers and gains of greedy ones. [[The applause continues]] This has to be reversed, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm sure...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u49	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u50	... that we will continue to work for the present and the future of all. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by pointing out a certainty that is evident at the time of budgets: the certainty that the Social Security budget is not an independent budget, but that it is part of the State's General Budgets; the certainty that by consolidating all chapters and eliminating transfers - which only involve transferring deficits from one chapter to another - it is concluded that the Social Security accounts are not balanced; it is accounting first. [[Applauds]] They are not balanced because to cover the 181 billion of expenditure, transfers of 36,2 billion euros and loans of 7 billion euros are necessary, an imbalance that implies the need for funds in the amount of 43,2 billion euros, which does not include the amount of 17,869 million euros involved in passive class pensions. We are talking about public accounts characterised by a high structural deficit, which the European Commission places at 5.2% of GDP in 2022 - by the way, the largest in Europe - and an unsustainable level of public debt, which currently stands at 122% of gross domestic product. To think that we can maintain this level of transfers to Social Security in the future without reducing other costs is simply naive. Spain needs a budget that is credible and realistic. And what do we find? First, a budget in which social contributions income is not credible. They are not credible because there is an increase in social contributions income of 9% -12.9% for the self-employed -, linking this growth to the rise of the maximum contribution bases by 1.7% and to a growth of the gross domestic product by 2022 by 7%, growth of GDP which unanimously reduces national bodies such as the Bank of Spain or the AIReF, and international ones such as the International Monetary Fund or the European Commission. The latter reduces it from 7 % to 5,5 %. We will be the only country in the eurozone that by the end of 2022 we will not have recovered the levels of gross domestic product for 2019. And since the recovery of GDP is not credible, neither can income from social contributions be credible. And, secondly, a budget in which pension expenditure is not credible. They are not credible since there is a high probability, as the governor of the Banco de España has shown, that the expenditure on pensions increases 3.5 billion euros as a result of the impact of inflation, both in the pensions of the year 2022 and in the compensation of the pensions of the year 2021. A high probability that is approaching certainty in view of the behaviour of the consumer price index, which shows an annual growth in October of 5,4 %, its highest level in the last twenty-nine years. Spain needs a budget that will boost job creation. And what do we find? We find that in a country with an unemployment rate of 14.57 % - almost twice the euro area average, which stands at 7.6% - with more than 3.4 million unemployed, it is proposed to increase employment costs by raising the maximum contribution bases by 1.7%, which is also applicable to the minimum bases of self-employed workers; maximum bases which, including the increase planned for 2022, will have grown by 28 % since 2011, compared with a growth of 6% in the average Spanish wage. In this respect, we must point out that employment costs will also be increased in the coming years with the entry into operation of the intergenerational equity mechanism, which will lead to an increase of 0.6 percentage points in social contributions over the period 2023 to 2032. Spain needs to budget on the basis of common sense, and it is a lack of common sense not to understand that raising the costs to employment to those who are most affected is the most intensive companies in employment, those in which labour costs represent a higher proportion of the total costs. It is not common sense not to understand that raising the costs of employment to those most affected is small and medium-sized enterprises; it means not to understand that SMEs, which account for more than 95 % of the Spanish business fabric and generate more than 90 % of employment, and especially micro-enterprises, with less than 10 workers, where 3.4 million people work in Spain. There is a lack of common sense in not understanding that companies will attempt to transfer the increase in contributions by way of prices or to compensate them by means of lower wage increases. It does not mean that companies that cannot do either will end up reducing their workforce, operating in the submerged economy or simply disappearing, with the consequent destruction of employment. It is not common sense not to understand that in the current economic situation in Spain, characterised by a high level of unemployment, a rigid labour market, an excessive number of regulations, an increasingly fragmented internal market, a high bureaucracy, high inflation and a high level of submerged economy, raising the cost of employment is foolishness and irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, budgeting on criteria is based on...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u53	Mr. Sáez, you have to finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u54	I'm done, Madam President. Budgeting with criteria is based on the reality of the labour market in Spain; budgeting with criteria is to set credible and realistic objectives, and voting with criteria, ladies and gentlemen, is to oppose budgets designed to maintain the power of Pedro Sánchez and not designed for the benefit of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u55	Thank you, Mr. Saez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u56	Thank you very much, President. Before I started, I wanted to address Mrs. Pérez Merino. I don't know what's so much applause and claims come to; they're in the government, I don't know why they don't. [[Applauds]] I do not know why they have been in government for two years and are unable to put solutions, even having Yolanda Díaz, the great savior of work in this country, directing the areas in which you claimed that improvements had to be made. Yes, you can, they said. Well, do it, it's been two years, Mrs. Pérez Merino. [[Applauds]] In the People's Party we voted against budgets built on erroneous forecasts that greatly complicate the recovery. This is what their social security budgets are: lies, unreal economic projections and more deficits. Its accounts are prepared under an erroneous growth forecast of 6.5% by 2021 and 7% by 2022. The Bank of Spain, the International Monetary Fund, the AIReF, the banks and all the experts say the calculations are wrong. Well, you guys don't have a case. We vote not on false accounts that lead us to an indiscriminate tax increase. This same morning, the report of the presentation for pension reform was approved by the Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration Commission. They've changed partners in a year. A year ago, here we went up to defend the Toledo Pact, in which we were the People's and Citizens' Party. Well, today they agree to reform with the Republican Left of Catalonia and Bildu; that is, they change constitutionalism for those who want to break Spain. [[Applauds]] That is the reality of what you bring here today, of what you have approved today in the Commission on Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, breaking up. On the eve of continuing on the path of constitutionalism and instead of continuing on what we have approved in the Toledo Pact, they change partners and break what we have always done in Social Security and for what we have always worked from Social Security. In this paper, we are also being paid the employment tax, the tax on work, an increase in the contributions that cost the recovery and the creation of jobs. And I remind you, gentlemen of the government, that it is employment that pays the contributions. These budgets estimate to be EUR 181 billion, 5% more than in 2021, because they want us to believe that they will increase income from social contributions by 9%. They will already explain to us how if what they do is limit the ability to create jobs. But it is also that this imposition does not even manage to cover the increase in expenditure, you know that, experts know that and we all know that. They are going to increase labour costs in a country with a social contribution only exceeded by four countries in Europe; we are in the ranking of the most social contributions we pay. And you also have to explain to us how you are going to raise your contribution income if we look at the quality of the job you are creating, which is more partial contract and more temporary contract. I don't know what Mrs. Yolanda Díaz will think of this. And I'm not the one who says it, so did his friends from the General Workers' Union not many days ago; still begging him for subsidies, they keep saying that you continue to create temporary employment and partial employment. You do not want budgetary policies that reduce burdens, you seek the opposite, and there you will never find the People's Party. We will never find ourselves putting more burdens on job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of the European People's Party, we will not vote in favour of social security forecasts that are moving away from reality and that will only lead us to more debt in our pension system, to a less sustainable system. You yourself acknowledge in the document you have sent to Europe that your pension reform, aligned with these budgets, will increase the deficit by more than 3.5 percentage points of GDP each year. And who will pay for this, ladies and gentlemen? How will they pay for it? That is the question that many citizens ask each day. And what terrifies the Spaniards is that these accounts are made by the same party that thinks that these minor matters, such as economic management, are learned in two afternoons, and now we are also surprised by the reform of pensions in two afternoons. And I understand that these budgets were devoted to the same thing, two afternoons; otherwise, it is incomprehensible. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to remind you how your advanced pupil left the country and the pensions in the Zapatero governments. And we will also vote no for budgets that do not understand that the best social policy for Spain is employment. Without jobs there are no contributors, gentlemen of the government. And without contributors, no matter how much you go up and up taxes and contributions or how much you extend the period of pension calculation, it's no use. More contributors and less burdens, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, is the way. You forget about reconciliation and families and do not think about young people, whom you deny the future you deserve. They also do not think of the autonomous and the SMEs, which should be the engine of recovery. The reality is that they do not dare to say here what they say behind closed doors in Europe; their campaign machinery would not admit it, but Brussels is different, there they do not swallow their pamphlets or their troubles between ministers, ministers and'ministers'. In line with all the above, our amendments to the draft budgets, constructive amendments and with the will to add but which you have not read and veto without knowing what you are doing. They will allow me to refer to the amendment - an amendment they have vetoed - for the three provinces with the greatest depopulation - Soria, Cuenca and Teruel - with recognition in the European Commission, which allow us to spend operating expenses and social security bonuses. Well, we are barred by an increase in expenditure and Teruel There is a decrease in revenue. That is the criterion for the implementation of public policies by the Socialist Party. In short, our amendments sought to strengthen the Toledo Pact in the design of social policies, ensuring constructive debate within them and implementing mechanisms that boost growth, sufficiency and sustainability, all of which recognize the sustainability factor. By the way, sustainability factor today demonized and that Escriva defended when he was president of the AIReF. We wanted to use European funds to secure the social system by analysing the Austrian backpack system and we want to ensure private savings without giving up other formulas, because the Spaniards should not be condemned to look at the horizon of their withdrawal with concern but with confidence. We have also wanted to serve committed groups, such as the State Security Forces and Bodies.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u57	Mr. Head, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u58	We believe - and I have concluded - that more conciliation, more support for the family and more equality is the way. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are the chronicle of an announced ruin, a failure that unfortunately we will pay among all. The People's Party is always ready to add for Spain, for our social and pension system and for economic growth and quality employment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u59	Mr. Head, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u60	More and better pensions, more and better growth and more and better employment. In short, we will leave a better country with these systems. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabezón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u62	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. These budgets fight against the disenchantment of many people who are vulnerable after the pandemic. These budgets are a key instrument for ensuring social and intergenerational cohesion. Politics is the weapon of citizens, especially those who have less, to change the course of their lives, and these budgets break inertias of vulnerability. These budgets are precisely those weapons with which people are going to defend themselves in the face of despair. And especially these budgets for 2022, the Social Security, seek to respond to the wishes of millions of people and are the engine of growth in social investment and in support of the most vulnerable sectors. They are, moreover, the formulation of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, an important agreement that we reached - a few days ago it was a year ago, on the 19th it was a year ago - and that meant, although some now despise it, the pooling of a large majority of Members who expressed an unequivocal will, which is that the social security system is a central part of our lives. A system, the Spanish Social Security, envied by many countries and representing the best country project we have built among all. Yeah, the best we've built in these forty-five years. A project that contains a high sense of belonging in citizenship, a central part of our welfare state, and I believe that this pandemic has made it clear. If anything has had this pandemic, it has shown us that when we think about the public we are stronger. Social security, therefore, has been the screen that has protected health, economic activity, wages, businesses; in short, the most precious asset that we must protect. In a few years' time, when someone makes a television show where I asked where they were then, they'll ask those gentlemen. Where were you when the state of alarm was declared and you resorted to it? Where were you when the greatest social shield in history was created? [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[Applauds]] Where were you when you asked for a study? Mrs. Muñoz, you're not here. Or don't you see they're not? He's been seven minutes and hasn't talked about budgets. I have to interpret what you already think is right and vote in favour or that you really haven't even looked at them. You know me very badly because you're rigorous and I'm very surprised at your attitude. We will already have time to discuss pension reform, so don't worry, but today they get budgets. When we citizens think collectively - I said earlier - we are unbeatable, and this is what shaped the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, the agreement on social dialogue and the pension reform adopted today in the Commission. Here I want to show my perplexity and sadness to a CEO who took off when he was told: you have to pacify. Because we were doing very well in the agreements, we already had twelve agreements with the CEO in the social dialogue. But what's going on? That now that we have to get wet, we'd better get out of here. This morning we approved the pension reform and left behind the 2013 pension reform. We have to tell the right-wing trident that this has passed the screen, the 2013 pension reform will not come back either in form or in substance. These budgets guarantee the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensioners on the basis of the CPI, and the minimums will grow by 3%, with the intention of generating confidence and of course gradually moving towards sufficient pensions. These budgets reflect the Government's unequivocal desire to ensure social, economic and territorial sustainability, as they reach €36 billion in transfers. To those who say they are creating deficits because they are deficient, we must tell them that the social security system as such does not have mechanisms to generate that stability. But calmly, because we will show you with pension reform that the system is balanced, it is simply to respond to those situations as inappropriate expenses, for example, which had not been so far. State transfers are increasing by 16.4%, and experts, as well as the social dialogue, the ESC and many bodies, have asked the government to close this deficit by 2023, and that is the way. These are the second budgets, in 2019 they already announced a number of transfers that did not come forward, but these will do so to close precisely that deficit. We must balance in 2023 and the Government is moving forward and fulfilling, and these budgets are the example. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets will also be increased by social contributions. To those agrarians who think no, I will remind you that in 2019, thanks to the policies at the time of Minister Magdalena Valerio in the government, income increased by almost 9%. On the other hand, there is an undisputed issue and it is that these budgets leave the residency policies behind the system in the loans on the system. A misguided policy that came to excess at the time of the People's Party and generated an image of mistrust in the sustainability of the system. Well, these budgets are beginning to change that direction and to strengthen the path of economic consolidation of the system. These budgets - as I said - are mainly based on the labour market. The spokesman for VOX said that, of course, the labour market must be sustainable in order to generate these contributions, but for that to happen, reforms must be made and there is the government of the nation. The rise of the maximum bases by 1,7 % or the expected recovery of the gross domestic product, although some deny it, is the exit. We are also talking about the protection of pensioners, yes, but also of the most vulnerable families. The consolidation of minimum living income - and I congratulate the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as the Ministry, on having consolidated this new provision of the system - is going to support a sound social and, of course, economic system. I'm done, President. There are many other benefits, such as minimal complements, which they do by consolidating social sustainability. There is a will of iron, a will for the State to respond to this system by blinding it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u63	Mrs. Perea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u64	I'm done, President. This Government is making progress in improving the quality of life of people and is making progress, not as the right, in obviously improving the present and future of many of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. Title V and Section 06, Public debt We continue with the joint debate on Title V and Section 06, Public Debt. In defence of amendments, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u66	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the United Nations We can, it is not the volumes of the items that qualify a budget; it is the reliability of the forecasts, the fulfilment of the objectives and, above all, the results that express whether a budget is good or not. Last year we criticized the budgets because we did not see the forecasts reliable, the objectives did not match the figures and we anticipated what could happen. This year is different in part. The forecasts are still false, but now we also know what is going to happen because their budgets for 2022 maintain the path of 2021 and on these we already have results. The results are that they have failed, from the forecasts to the objectives. Growth forecasts fall below the broad target - 4.6%, according to the European Commission's latest estimate - and that set a huge margin, but they are still going to get out of it. And in the objectives there was a recovery in V, something that some minister and some socialist MPs still say. Look, this is a V and this is the recovery of Spain. [[shows a graph]] Of course not. This is the image of a failure, the last country in the European Union to recover pre-pandemic levels, it is already estimated that it will be achieved by 2023, three years later. Nor is the achievement of the objectives good for our businesses and self-employed people: around 300 000, between closed and self-employed companies in the process of ceasing activity; nor for families and people - here the data are terrible -: 11 million people in a situation of social exclusion, almost one in four Spaniards, and 2.5 million more since 2018, 22% more. These are the results. Another of the bad results is the one we analyze in this title and section, the public debt. In just three years -2020, 2021 and 2022 - Mr Sánchez's government is going to accumulate a deficit close to the EUR 300 billion that we are paying, in part, families, self-employed people and businesses through the continuous rise in taxes, contributions, etc., but which, above all, will pay our children and grandchildren, as Minister Calvino said. And most importantly, for what? As we have already seen, the results are poor. At the end of the second quarter of 2021, public debt in the European Union stood at 90.9% on GDP and in Spain at 122.8%, more than 30 points of difference. Do you know what the difference was at the end of 2019? 11 points. These are Eurostat data, Mr Hurtado, I am not inventing them. The last Spanish data published by his Government, at the end of September, remains at 122.1%, i.e. we maintain the difference. In addition, Spanish debt is the public debt that has increased the most from all over Europe by the pandemic. However, Mr Hurtado was telling us in the Committee on Budgets last week that Spain's data are in the European Union environment. This is false, Mr. Hurtado. The public debt that grows the most: 11 points of difference with the Union we move to almost 32 points. The Secretary-General of the Treasury last year told us that perhaps it was pointless to keep the current debt ceiling at 60% on GDP, as is the current legislation. Right now the European Union is discussing this, especially if the low interest rates are maintained, but at least we should be aligned with the Union and not more than 30 points apart, one third above our partners. All that we divert poses a potential risk of adjustment demands and a potential risk of inability to react to a serious and unforeseen event in the world economy. The government does not want to comply with the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act as demanded by the AIReF, the Banco de España and ourselves. Neither the institutions nor the opposition listen to us. Who do you listen to? We already know that they listen to the demands of their partners in the United Nations We can, those of EH Bildu, those of Esquerra Republicana and those of the PNV, that is, those who do not think about the future of Spain. And I ask you: what about the demands to secure the future of Spain? Where are they, in which drawer do they keep them? More should be done, but at least they should define the timetable and the debt volumes to converge with Europe. This is the least, not even that. President, I'm done. I don't doubt that you want to do things right, but you don't know. They have already demonstrated it in the 2008 crisis and are reproving it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u68	Thank you, President. A preview, by allusions, of Mrs. Perea, although I don't see her now. I was wondering where we were when people were dying and it had to be confined. We were with the Spaniards, supporting and negotiating all measures against this crisis and this pandemic. Mrs. Perea says I don't know the budgets. For you had to do them in the Commission proceedings, because I have been locked up for three days in the First Room of this house. And Mrs. Perea says this wasn't expected of me. Mrs. Perea, I don't know where you will be, but I hope you will listen to me. Do you know what I didn't expect after dealing with the Ministry and the Secretary of State for Social Security? That some of the amendments that we were told to incorporate into the budgets, the Government is therefore vetoing them in social matters. They were amendments on disability, conciliation and vulnerable groups. That's what I didn't expect from your government, Mrs. Perea. [[Applauds]] We are going to debate this issue, Title V and Section 06 on public debt. We have been debating the General State Budgets for many days, weeks, and at this point there are already some obviations: budgets in which the accounts do not match, budgets with unreal forecasts, away from any forecasts made by any prestigious body, and spending items that will further divert the unbelievable forecasts. This concerns Citizens and I am concerned personally, but also the AIReF, the Bank of Spain and the European Union. I do not know what solution the Government proposes to these so justified concerns, as you are going to tell the AIReF, the European Union and the Bank of Spain that they are not legitimised to talk about all this, but all these bodies agree on the same thing: they believe that the government's forecasts are overly optimistic and that we can find ourselves with a major deviation and a huge level of deficit and debt during 2022. We have tabled an amendment so that you will have to adopt a path of consolidation of expenditure in the medium and long term, it is of the few that have not vetoed, I suppose you would be lost. So let us see if you too are fired in the vote so that we can adopt and have something similar to a realistic medium-term forecast. There are plenty of reasons, in short, to criticize these budgets, but I am afraid that you resort to the easy excuse of the mantra of the cuts, that there was another way to do things, that the bad guys were the old ones and that the good guys are you. We have been with the people of this country because we believed that it was necessary to rescue the Spanish families. But its crazy increase in spending will not even serve that purpose, because the Government has chosen to allocate resources to public policies that have not even been evaluated; policies that increase public spending in the long term and structurally by compromising future spending that we do not know how they will be paid; policies that have not taken into account the efficiency criteria; policies, as it could not otherwise be with this Government, that have not been raised in a context of fiscal consolidation that makes better use of our public resources. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you have preferred to share the money with Rufián and Otegi rather than to push the plan to the German or Italian, as we asked you in Citizens, to cover the expenses of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people who are seriously threatened by their survival. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, public spending has to be translated into strategic investments, not waste or patches. You have not addressed one of the reforms that this country needs in these budgets. The opposition groups-he reiterated - at least we understand the exceptionality of the moment and we have even supported them at certain times. And what are you doing? Adopt budgets thinking only of the survival of Pedro Sánchez, rather than thinking of the future of a nation. Following the analysis of this title, we have to address the issue of financial transactions related to the Institute of Official Credit, ICO, or the Fund for the Internationalization of the Enterprise, FIEM. I would like to highlight the worrying situation in which this Government has put small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people behind the announcement of the extension of the repayment periods and the lack of ICO credits. So, ladies and gentlemen, these aspects create much more doubts than certainties. We are concerned by the warnings of the supervisory bodies and we are concerned that their predictions are far from reality. In addition, we are extremely concerned that you have not had the slightest interest, not in fulfilling the forecasts that Europe tells us and advises us, but in not wasting much more time trying to reform issues to satisfy your partners, rather than completing the reformist agenda of the State that enforces us with Europe. I'll give you an example. You have had time to run, study and process the reform of the Law of Universities to continue allowing the harassment of separatism to constitutionalists or you have run to amend, nothing less, that the Spanish Transition in an abominable assignment to its partners, but you have not found a single minute to put forward reforms in line with the model of work, in the digitisation or in the depoliticization of the job search services that Europe has asked of us. That is why, and because there is no place for these budgets to take them, we will be voting instead at this point. We need an evaluation of public policies and an audit of spending. We need investments to be put in strategic sectors and not in the strategies that you decide without any further criteria that will benefit you and Sánchez to stay in the Moncloa. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, last Friday we were, with some of the Members of this House, in a debate at the University of Valladolid and one of the students asked us about this issue, about the debt issue. There was no time to answer him, so I am going to use this speech to explain how we see this subject, because that is what this debate is about. Title V of the General Budgets of the State authorizes the amount up to which the State and public bodies may carry out borrowing operations. With regard to the State's debt, the use refers to the amount of the increase in the living balance of the State's debt as at 31 December. In addition, the total limit of guarantees to be provided by the State and public bodies is set. For the next year, between net financing and depreciation, gross emissions of EUR 242 846 million are expected, 9.8% less than those expected in 2021. Net emissions will be approximately EUR 80 billion, as estimated for 2021. The Government's accounts show that the increase in debt does not lead to an increase in the financial burden. This is largely due to the European Central Bank's purchasing programme and the confidence that our country transmits to investors. The burden is expected to continue to be reduced as long as the cost of new emissions remains below the average cost of debt that goes down each year. As the Secretary General of the Treasury and International Finance pointed out in this House last October, the declining trend in the cost of debt is one of the key signs of its sustainability, and the financial burden, in absolute terms, shows a clearly decreasing trend despite the increased volume of circulation. It is an element to be considered for debt sustainability. It should also be noted that the estimate of the financing costs is above that foreseen by the Banco de España, giving an example of the degree of rigour and prudence with which these accounts have been drawn up. It is also expected that the average life of the State debt will be stabilized within eight years or even slightly increased, levels that allow for a low risk of refinancing and therefore a lower exposure to a possible rise in interest rates. The rapid decisions taken by the European Central Bank and which have achieved the good performance of debt markets, together with the expansive fiscal policies adopted by all the Member States of the European Union, have enabled us to react in time and start the path of reconstruction with well-defined objectives. That is, the opposite of the management that was done in the past crisis, in which the path of austerity led to decisions, resulting in a more unequal society and a weakened welfare state. Good financing conditions and European funds give us the opportunity to do things differently and to build a country with a productive model of greater added value, sustainable and generating quality employment. Let us seize this great opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u72	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Remembering that yesterday Don Antonio Escohotado passed away, and since we are going to talk about public debt and public debt interests, we are going to pay tribute to him by recalling his phrase: Marx is a complete impostor, he lived to give soaps. [[Applauds]] This year we have budgeted 30,271 million euros to meet the public debt, a little less than last year, than the year that concludes, which was 31,740, but in any case, within the 30 billion that we have been paying for several years. You know, those who agree with me in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that I believe that it is 30 billion interests that we pay the European Central Bank in exchange for a liquidity-free bar. It's not worth spending more time on the game, even if they think it's a lie, because more or less it's going to be met: with the interest rates we have right now, at an average rate of 1.661 %, regardless of how the guys move, more or less that's what we're going to spend. The problem is another, the problem is that that item, which has eight years of term - all public debt has an average maturity of eight years - will gradually rise over the next eight years, depending on the interest rates going up, and at that time what we are going to find is an insurmountable public debt, something really agonistic for the maintenance of the welfare state. I know this gives you absolutely the same thing. The long-term does not worry this House at all, the long-term is a fascist thing that I understand is lacking to you spiritual and material comfort, so carpe diem should be the motto of this House or the famous Keynes phrase: 'In the long-term we will all be dead'. You don't care about the public, really, you just care about the present. Because, really, you're denialists of reality. The only thing that concerns them in the long run seems to be that it is something that is not scientifically proven, such as climate change. Look, you often say that the problem of public debt is not such because it must not be returned. Of course, it's not exactly like that, but the argument is not bad. If the problem is that we have to renegotiate every year and that we now have a public debt of 122,1 %, 2 billion gross debt and 1.4 billion net debt, and that a mere 1 % increase in interest rates - which we already know is not moving automatically, but is gradually being incorporated over those eight years - what will result is that we will increase from 30 000 to 45 000 million, if it rises 1 point; if it rises 2, to 60 000 million. What do you think made the Zapatero government have to apply the cuts it applied to officials and the freezing of public wages? The renegotiation of the debt, not that it had to be paid; the renegotiation of the debt. What do you think forced Mr. Rajoy to request the rescue of the savings banks? Not of the bank, gentlemen, not of the bank; of the savings boxes. The same goes for debt renegotiation. Then we had a debt on GDP of 70%, now we have it of 122%; then we renegotiate 200,000 euros a year, now we negotiate 240,000; then we pay 29 billion, now we pay 30,000. It seems to be of little importance, but, of course, a 1-point increase now, which we are already at minimum rates, that the 10-year bonus has risen by 0.5 points over the course of the year, when it is gradually shifting what is going to generate is an increase in public expenditure, as I have told you, of 15 billion per point of increase. At that time, 2011 and 2012, they were only nearly 9 billion. Look at you, we are in a situation where in a very short time the burden of interest borne by the State can be doubled, in a very short time. For that we only need interest rates to rise 2 points over the next few years and to move to the curve structure. GDP is not going to rise 100% in so few years. The fragility of our public accounts for the next two decades is, therefore, quite extraordinary. Now, what does this matter to you, what does it matter to us if, in total, we're not going to be here! We are not interested in the long term, that will be the problem of a government that will not meet the salaries of civil servants, public pensions or unemployment benefits, at least in the conditions close to the current ones, as we are already seeing. Because this year's rise in pensions, for example, is 3 points or 3.5 points lower than inflation; because the rise in public wages is lower than inflation; because this very morning we have already been told that the famous pensioner's pay is going to be charged with correcting the deviation from inflation. You want a lot of public spending and a lot of taxes. Since they are so Keynesians, why don't they try something else: low taxes and help only those who need it? But, of course, you want a population totally dependent on you. They don't want a self-sufficient population. Nor in their worst dreams can one imagine a society that does not depend on political favor. Presumably an increase in social spending. Hey, but aren't things going well? If things are going well, why should we increase aid to the population? Because things aren't going well. It is not true that things are going well when we need to help our people more and more. Wilhelm Röpke said: Men cannot be deprived of the feeling that it is good to save, to keep a reserve for them and their families, instead of spending everything and then going to the state. We must return to the families the pride of being able to move forward by the effort itself. But no, you prefer a population frightened by fiscal discretion and begging for political favor. You believe yourself to be a court at the service of which the Spaniards are. The public debt is unsustainable, the result of past mistakes that we are already paying, but which will be dramatic in a few years, perhaps months, but that is only known to the government, which hides from this House the conditions that Brussels has imposed on it or will impose on it to access European funds.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u73	Mr. Manso, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u74	I will conclude, Your Honor. Do not trust the ECB so much, gentlemen, because 50% of the debt is in the hands of non-residents and therefore the Spaniards depend on you and you on the markets, and the markets are going to tell you exactly what you have to do, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u75	Mr. Manso, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u76	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, President. The last speech reminded me of Zarathustra's words. We practically have a hecatombe. This Title V, Section 06, deals with financial policy in the 2022 State General Budgets. Significant data: about 10% lower gross debt issuance, up to EUR 242 billion; net debt issuance, up to EUR 80 billion is maintained; the public debt-to-GDP ratio is reduced by 4.5 points; the average rate of living debt is reduced to 1.6%, a historical decline; the financial burden is reduced by EUR 1400 million, and emission prices are almost below zero, the forecast is 0.03%. That's the data. I have to say that I have heard a lot of criticisms about financial policy in these budgets - also from the People's Party - and, curiously enough, no amendments have been tabled here to change this financial policy. That is to say, those who do not agree present amendments. I'm wrong. The People's Party has presented one, which has not mentioned its spokesman, to ask for more information on the lateness of the ICO lines, the only one that has defended itself here from the People's Party. I therefore believe that there is agreement on the part of all and, where there is agreement, there is even room for discussion. There is agreement because no amendments have been tabled to the State's budgets in the area of financial policy. I would say More, two amendments that were tabled by other groups and that have not been defended here were to increase the financial debt, the public debt of the State. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for my intervention I have brought a battery of indicators on financial policy - I am going to talk about financial policy, not about the sex of angels, I am going to talk about financial policy - I have brought a battery of indicators from when you were ruling and from when we were ruling. It's all the indicators I found, I haven't found any more. The first is the risk premium. Do you know what your risk premium was? 491 basic points. Do you know what this government's risk premium is in the financial markets? 61 basic points. What does that mean in everyday language? That there is much confidence, much more confidence in the debt of the Spanish State than there was when the People's Party ruled. That is what the risk premium means: the financial markets trust the Spanish state to pay their debt. And I am going to repeat a phrase that the Secretary General of the Treasury said: There is an appetite for Spanish debt in the financial markets. [[Applauds]] That's the first indicator. Let's go to the second indicator. [[Rumors]] The second indicator is the public debt-GDP ratio. Do you know how much the ratio with the People's Party came to in 2014? At 100,7. I mean, in two years 30 points -30 points - the ratio went up, and now they complain. We, with the last figure -119.9-, have raised the ratio by 22,5 %. Your Honor, there's a difference. You guys raised the debt a lot more, 30%, but do you know why you issued public debt? To save fifteen financial institutions in this country. [[Applauds]] That's what you did by raising 30 points of public debt and deceiving us, because Mr. De Guindos said it wouldn't cost a cent to the public treasury. Besides, fooled. Do you know why we raised the debt by 22,5 points? To save about three million people who have taken care of the ERTE and about six hundred thousand companies who have saved themselves with the ICO lines, for extraordinary benefits for self-employed people, for the social shield. For that. What is more socially legitimized, the decision to raise 30% of the public debt to save fifteen entities, or the decision to raise the public debt by 22,5 points to save the entire business fabric of this country and all workers in this country? The answer, of course, is that ours is legitimized and yours is still socially challenged, it is delegitimized with the issue of 30% more public debt. Third indicator, financial burden. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u79	Mr. Ledesma, please don't share every five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u80	Do you know how much the financial burden was, that is, the cost of public debt to the People's Party in 2013? It amounted to €38.6 billion. How much is the financial burden? In 30.2 billion, more than 22% less. That means it costs a lot less. And as far as points of interest are concerned, I do not have time, but, of course, we are at historical minimums, at historical minimums in terms of emissions below zero and at average interest rates. I want to tell you that there are two fundamental milestones - and I want to make it clear here - that highlight this government's financial policy: first, the issue of green bonds. The first issue of 5 billion has had offers of up to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u81	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u82	... EUR 6 billion. I'll finish. And secondly, in addition to green bonds, 23 billion public debt expires in 2011 at the beginning of January. We are going to save more than EUR 12 billion in this country with the renewal of that public debt. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u83	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Title VI We moved on to the debate on Title VI. In defence of the amendments, the Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u84	Thank you, Madam President. First, a question about the forms. The BNG tabled several amendments concerning fiscal policy that were vetoed by the Government. To be honest, it does not seem to us that, instead of debating, convincing - if there are good arguments - we choose to ban the vote. We do not believe that this behaviour corresponds to a government that calls itself progressive forces. Moreover, the BNG's proposals were absolutely reasonable, within a logical scheme of a fairer and more redistributive fiscal policy, lowering taxes paid by the popular classes and rising to those who have the most resources. They mainly affect VAT. It is always said: of course, it is that if we lower VAT, we lower the income of the State. We do not want to lower the revenues of the public administration or those of the State. The experts say that the VAT model is easily extended, because it is also very easy to apply. It's much easier to put your teeth on big fortunes than on big companies. In short, it is easier than making a really progressive policy, a really progressive fiscal policy. But it's unfair. Workers pay, suffer more, especially if VAT is applied to essential services or commodities. For this reason, the BNG advocates lowering VAT for women's hygiene products, cultural products, basic services such as electricity, gas water, also for fisheries products, in order to promote healthy food, or VAT for hairdressers to 10%, an old commitment of the government parties. On the other hand, what do we stand for? To raise the capital tax progressively from EUR 1 million. The proposal to raise corporate tax seems very good to us, but we believe that we must continue to act. And this cannot be delayed on the permanent pretext that there will be a general reform of tax policy in the year 2023. We are waiting to see it, but in the meantime we believe that these proposals will be of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u85	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u86	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen. We have tabled various amendments in the area of tax rules. Of these amendments virtually none remains alive, but I would like to refer to two or three which are relevant and which, in any case, I would like to make clear. Although today, or tomorrow, they are not going to vote, some of them, as we did last year, we are going to incorporate them into different legislative texts that are being processed in the spirit that some of them can be incorporated. One that should not have been vetoed, but has been vetoed, is the registration tax, that of maintaining the registration tax as it was set at 31 December 2020 and as it was set at 1 July 2021. From our point of view, it should not have been vetoed because it does not affect budgetary revenue; in any case, this has an impact on the autonomous communities. Last year we presented it in the budget and it was not approved, but we managed to approve it throughout the year. We will try to do exactly the same, because we understand that the sector requires it; it is a punished sector and that it is not recovering. Therefore, the registration tax is one. Another amendment which is not going to be incorporated, but which will have to be corrected at some point and which we have forwarded to the Government, refers specifically to the minimum rate of 15% of corporate tax. We can understand the government's willingness to set this minimum rate; what we do not understand is how there is no possibility - which is done with other bonuses and deductions - of 15% exemption from research and development deductions. If we want to give a clear message that research and development is a priority for the Spanish State as a whole, it is absolutely incomprehensible not to be excluded, as other bonuses and deductions are excluded, to calculate the minimum rate of 15%. Finally - there were different amendments, such as those relating to pension schemes, on which I am not going to extend - there is another which also affects in some way this measure of 15% minimum rate of corporation tax. It has been established that a subsidy to housing leasing companies will be reduced by more than 50%. We understand that it is also a mistake at this time, in which we are trying to encourage rental houses to leave the market, so that this bonus can be reduced. We understand that it must be rectified and although we cannot approve it in these General State Budgets, the Democratic Party will present it in other legislative initiatives. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The General Budgets of the State for 2022 can be summed up in two ideas: they come with totally inflated revenues and are the budgets of Sánchez's vetoes. The data is there and kills the story of the Socialist Party and this propagandistic government. Ladies and gentlemen, mathematics is silly. The Government has submitted accounts based on macroeconomic growth forecasts of 6.5% by 2021, necessarily downgraded from the optimistic outlook of 9.8% that it had initially presented, and from a growth of 7% by 2022. But it's very easy, they make a budget of revenue and expenditure that they won't be able to square either. The INE lowered the government's estimates by 1.7% in September. This very important downward adjustment could entail a significant revision of the growth forecasts for this year and therefore of income. However, this growth forecast of 7% by 2022 is not endorsed by the Banco de España, which leaves it at only 5.9%; nor by Funcas, which sets it at 6.1%; nor by BBVA Research, which sets it at 5.5%. We all know that income is inflated, because growth forecasts are not real, but the Government is precluding itself in continuing to argue that this is not the case. And now Brussels is coming, which also cuts our country's growth from 6.2% to 4.6%, leaving our GDP growth far out of the government's forecasts. We will undoubtedly be the debt champions with the deficit of realism. This means that we will be the only country in the European Union that will not have recovered its pre-crisis GDP by 2022, and this means that revenues will not be sufficient. The revenue shown in this budget will not be sufficient to cover the expenditure of the budget. How is this Government going to raise those revenues that it has planned? Well, there's only one way and it's by raising taxes. We'll pay for it among all of us. The middle classes, the self-governing and the enterprises will pay the pacts of this Government with nationalists, separatists and other parties that have the Government seized and cannot breathe without them. There are certainly many alternatives to solving this problem and many of them were in the amendments that Citizens, my party, the Liberal party has tabled. Liberals only want what is best for our country, we do not want anything to be recognized; that is why we will leave them again in the Senate, so that we have the opportunity to vote on them, because none of the amendments we have tabled in this title, none of them, have been debated and none of them have been able to vote. Why? Because they know that there are parties that could approve them and we could have an alternative majority and, as they do not believe in democracy, we veto amendments. Amendments to increase the deductibility rate for self-employed persons working from home from the current 30% to 50%; vetoed by Sánchez. To encourage investment in new start-ups by extending the maximum deduction base, from around €60 000 to about €75000 per year, to invest in new start-ups; but no, it is vetoed by Sánchez. For the creation of a new deduction for employers of persons discharged from the Social Security of domestic workers, to encourage the recruitment of persons performing household work; but no, it is vetoed by Sánchez. For the extension of the special tax regime applicable to workers displaced to Spanish territory and who are developing investment and entrepreneurial activity here; but not, it is vetoed by Sánchez. For the increase of the reduction for the contributions of the private pension plans from 1500 euros, in which the government intends to leave it, to 4000 euros that we already requested last year; but not, also the veto Sánchez. So we could be until the end of today's plenary session, because it has been more than 140 amendments that have vetoed us, and in this title, I tell you, not one has left us in order to be able to vote. But I can go on. We have asked that the VAT on hairdressers should be reduced to 10%. And what does Sanchez say? He vetoes it, too. But we have also asked that the effects of the rise in the new European calculus be kept frozen in the registration tax; but also, as a surprise, Sánchez has vetoed it. Undoubtedly, this is the summary: Sánchez's inflated revenues and vetoes, without even the ability of political parties to debate and vote. Debate and vote, not even that we are already left to Congress of Deputies. I sincerely believe that with these liberal recipes Spain could take off and take advantage of the historic opportunity provided by European funds. We believe in a virtuous circle that puts at the centre the confidence in the entrepreneurial and working spirit of our citizens, quite contrary to that vicious circle of prohibitions, confrontations and tax increases. All national and international bodies are being notified of this. You think that your dips and sectarianism do not pay you, but the pockets of all the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u90	President, good afternoon again. When it comes to tax rules for our parliamentary group, it is particularly important to establish a minimum rate of 15% in company tax, which has already been mentioned here. It will affect companies with turnover of more than EUR 20 million per year or which constitute consolidated groups. Since it will finally apply on tax bases and not on accounting profits, its collection effect will be barely symbolic-calculated which will affect 0.1 % of businesses - but it is certainly another step towards fiscal harmonisation that we have always claimed. It makes no sense that income from work, SMEs and self-employed people are generally taxing more than 15%, while large capitals use fiscal engineering to take advantage of international governance and to squander what they owe us all. Simply, this is neither fair nor sustainable. On the other hand, the contribution limit for individual pension schemes is reduced in line with the recommendations of both AIReF and the European Commission itself. In return, employment plans are encouraged and, to that end, the ceiling for the company is raised to EUR 8500. In addition, the subsidy for housing rental entities is reduced from 85 % to 40 % and the current limits on the taxation by the module system in IRPF and VAT are extended, which is estimated to save some EUR 115 million for self-employed groups. These measures are in addition to those already taken to reverse the harmful regressive fiscal policies implemented during the last government of the People's Party. I would like to remind you that the shameful tax privileges of the companies have already ended, while, for example, the two new tax figures called on to tax activities that were previously exempt have been operational for months: we are talking about the tax on financial transactions and the tax on certain digital services. These are all measures aimed at strengthening the state's muscle at a time when all of us demand decisive action by the state to address the extraordinary situation in which we find ourselves. And it is that also demand forceful actions those who today rise to this rostrum to, incomprehensiblely, request below less public funds. And I say that it is incomprehensible because it is through public funds that our health system has been strengthened; how the impact on the productive fabric has been cushioned by guaranteeing liquidity to companies, mainly SMEs and self-employed people; how the fall in incomes of families has been countered by the approval and implementation of minimum living income, and how funding has been increased to local entities and autonomous communities so that they can meet a growing demand for social services. In other words, it is through public funds that an expansive people-centred fiscal policy has been financed and is being financed, and therefore totally opposed to the cut-off policy implemented during the past crisis. Of course, there is never a shortage of bulldozers that announce an imminent collapse, a sort of final judgment to slow down; they talk about fiscal hell, looting, seizure, but the fact is that, according to data published by Eurostat, before the pandemic, Spain's fiscal pressure, i.e. the set of taxes and social contributions in relation to GDP, was 35.4% compared to GDP. That is to say, our country was then the 17th country of the Union with the lowest pressure. Specifically, we were at 5.6 percentage points above the European average and far away from countries such as France, Denmark or Belgium, all of them with more productive economies and higher standards of living. Pending the update of this data, I would bet that this general picture has hardly been moved, and therefore I say to you: there is still a long way to go in fiscal matters. I say more, surely it is more than what has been done, because, yes, in this barely year and peak it has been possible to put a stop to a fatal downward trend launched by Mr Rajoy's government, but this is not enough. As I said in my first speech, we don't want to go back to the anomie before the COVID. Well, at the beginning of next year it is expected that the committee of experts, convened for the design of a tax reform, will issue its report of conclusions; it will serve as a starting gun for a debate called to change the material bases of the State forever. It must therefore be an ambitious reform that goes beyond the shortsightedness of the electoral cycle, which thinks of feminist and ecological Spain that we want to be in the coming decades. [[The Lord]] That is why I trust that the measures we are discussing here today will serve just as a mezzanine for the strong course that will follow. Only the defrauders and the rich who are also insolidarians should be afraid of this reform. The rest of the men and women of our country have reason to face this process with hope and optimism, because the homeland is that, ladies and gentlemen, the homeland is people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u91	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Title VI of the draft budgets is the one that most likes the Minister of Finance and the Communists, the one who talks about collecting taxes. The so-called progressive forces begin to impose and end up expropriating, applying totalitarianism that threatens a free society. The contemporary excuse: the Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda; the classic tool: taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government assures that in 2022 more than EUR 232 billion will be raised in budgetary terms, 8% more than in 2021. And this, how will the Minister of Finance do it, with magic and prestigitation? No, with a tax hike. The minister therefore blatantly lies to the Spanish when she says that she is not going to raise taxes. It is a government that has vetoed any amendment to the budgets in a preventive way, to prevent a majority in this Parliament perhaps from cutting its collection anxiety. The Government's sole objective is to penalize the efforts of the Spaniards. The Government of the Ruin will commit between 2021 and 2022 eight tax increases and the creation of six new taxes, thus deepening in the increase of the tax effort of all Spaniards. We earn less and pay more taxes. And how do you orchestrate these maneuvers? By reducing the deduction by contribution to pension schemes, by discouraging the free and voluntary savings of self-employed people and workers. [[Applauds]] The government of the digital transformation disincentive to those companies that want to allocate their resources to R & D+i, applying a minimum rate of taxation that will also affect job creation. A minimum type of globalist inspiration that will deepen the loss of competitiveness of Spanish companies, removing investments to countries that do not apply it and that invade our markets and destroy our industry - another further competitive disadvantage - with a measure that Spain will be the first country in the world to launch. This pleases above all the Lords of Podemos, who want small, fragile and weak companies, because you, company, if you grow up, I give you the hatchet, and if you create employment, you already take away from me the possibility of watering my subjects with alms, the longing model of the communists. Wake up, Spaniards! Obstacles to business growth, involved all this in the false defense of the SME. They want companies unable to grow to have them subjugated to their interventionist interests, and to the bravest, who can grow, ruin them and then expropriate them. The Government of Social Justice also reduces the subsidy for housing rental companies, which, together with the next reform planned for the rental market, is going to push up the price of housing, harming the middle-income and low-income population, who will also not be able to access the purchase of flats. Now let's do one thing, a DAFO analysis of the Spanish economy. [[It shows a role in which the acronym D.A.F.O. appears.]] Weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities. So you will see a fixed picture of our present and what will be the way for real progress. The weaknesses of our economy are evident: Europe's highest unemployment rates, a scandalous general government deficit, a debt that exceeds 122% of GDP and a backward investment, fearful consumption, poor growth and galloping inflation; inflation, which is the antonomasy tax to those who have less. The countryside and livestock are dying with increases in their costs; they ask the government for measures and the government rejects them. The automotive sector, which generates 10% of GDP, is exactly the same; in the face of the inaction of the ministry, it calls for mobilisations, and the movement tax, which was something they asked for, is not granted either by the government. Others abandoned along with the transporters. The hospitality and tourism, ruined, forced to close and without possibility of recovery in years. Hairdressers have suffered from the closure of 40% of establishments, and of those that have survived, 60% are at imminent risk of closure, and the government, which is impassive, does not accept its only demand: to lower VAT to 10%. Look, two notes. If they lower VAT, they will avoid exchanges of submerged economy, they will declare more income, the sector's margin will increase with greater profits, they will hire more staff and, although VAT collection is lower, it is compensated by increased collection by IRPF and by companies, in addition to promoting job creation. The economy class is laziing, gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] More weaknesses: the atomization of the Spanish business fabric. SMEs, far from receiving support and facilities from the Government, are witnessing the criminalization of those companies that have been able to grow and create jobs and improve their productivity. This misgovernment, if you have more employees and more bills, penalizes you with more taxes, and so, who dares to grow up? No one. For this reason, the main threat - following the analysis - that surrounds our economy is this government, far from reality, ideologized with room ecology, with interventionism even in the dish of food and handed over to its globalist dreams, which advances in creating a society - from the youngest and the most needy families - to which it intends to get used to the alms of the state, to educate in poverty; a model of involution, a society collectivized in the pay and in the ruin of those who can generate something, a Spain intervened and without future for the youngest. Despite this, our main strength is the Spanish character that grows in the face of adversity, solidarity and labor, and that courage and arrogance are the ones that VOX has come to defend and support in institutions, in the streets and in the courts; industry, agriculture, livestock and tourism in the face of the globalist agendas that seek to ruin us and turn us into the lackeys of the elites that we don't care about Spanish people or our way of life. [[applause]] Finally, at this juncture we have a unique opportunity: to reject the Government's General Budgets, to return them to their authors and to have the Government resign in bloc; to leave, to call elections and to return the voice to the Spaniards so that, democratically and without deception, they will decide their future and put it in the hands of those who defend them, of those who defend the Spanish agenda, of those who do not eschew them at taxes, of those who allocate the resources of the State to public services of truth and quality, of those who understand their real priorities and needs, of those who protect them from invasions, respect their savings and their property and, ultimately, of those who fight for their rights and freedoms. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are dealing with the debate on Title VI, tax rules, i.e. taxes, but a preliminary one: we have been systematically denouncing that the forecast of budget growth is water everywhere, and today we have learned how this government balances the accounts. The financial year 2021, today, is that of the lowest investment percentage in the entire history of the last twelve years, only 31%. You promise investments and then simply don't execute anything. Someone who has preceded me has said - and indeed it has been so - that both Sánchez and the minister denied that taxes would be raised, and we are right in the title in which, clearly, taxes are raised. The tax is raised to the self-employed: from 95 to 216 euros more will have to pay per year, which is 127 million euros more. As far as corporation tax is concerned, out of 136 countries that signed the manifesto, only one is going to apply this year: Spain. We are the smartest in the class, and what happens is that no one in the government has been able to explain why. Pension schemes: savings are discouraged and no more than EUR 1500 may be deducted. Tobacco rises by 5%. The enrollment tax is going to double. That is, someone has intervened before and said that all the taxes that were increased were for the rich. For to me, after all that I have just said, let someone explain to me, above all, the one who did not know: inflation, the tax of the poorest. Faced with this, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled a few amendments in which we basically propose tax reductions. If one, in the end, sums up everything, it is 10 billion euros that the People's Tax Reduction Party proposes. We are proposing to reduce the VAT on hairdressers, the VAT on diapers, the VAT on prostheses to those who suffer from cancer; we are proposing to allow more to be contributed to pension funds; we are proposing those retirement plans; we are proposing, in short, ladies and gentlemen, the measures that people care about. What's the problem? The problem is that all this has been vetoed, ladies and gentlemen; so little could I continue to speak here, since a veto has been imposed. We are, I remind you, before the most important document of the whole year: the General Budgets of the State. Today it touches on what Article 31.2 of the Constitution calls efficient and effective allocation of resources, programming and equitable allocation, but, from what we have seen throughout this process, of course, of equitable has little. To the one who came to say that he was going to regenerate democracy, I say that in this budget we see just how the opposite path is going. I had never seen the 500 amendments in a section such as transport and mobility, with 10 billion, have to be implemented in three minutes. Do you really, ladies and gentlemen who support the government, believe that the work of Members deserves only three minutes to defend the work of many years? Do you really think we're going somewhere like this? [[Applauds]] Are they not really explained that then the institutions are so far away from the citizens? Secondly, the veto of the amendments. Someone will come up here and say: the governments of the People's Party have already vetoed amendments on other occasions. And you are right, but there was an important difference: there was a report that endorsed that veto because you were wrongly made; all of you were charged with a game, which already demonstrates the opposition's ability to work at that time. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, there are a few, 400, which have been vetoed with a report against, with a report against, and this is the important novelty. A spokesman for Podemos complained before we talked about Bildu here, but how are we not going to talk about Bildu? Today we have learned that there is an amendment out of the budget for Euskal Telebista to be seen in Navarre for the children to learn Basque and another day we have learned about the prisoners for budgets. How are we not going to talk about this? I find it very difficult to understand that this House is not able to agree to prevent the tributes of those who murdered citizens of all kinds and political colour - I am referring to the ages - but your ladies and gentlemen are able to agree in a minute to veto amendments that would legally proceed to debate. [[Applauds]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this deserves another reflection that you should explain on the street. How is it possible that we don't agree on that? I will explain this to you: the survival of the President of the Government depends on Bildu's votes. Finally, there are vetoes that are sanitary cords: depending on who presents it, vetoes or not vetoes; depending on how transactions go, the veto or lifted the veto. Ladies and gentlemen, radicalising politics as this government is doing, of course, is not going to be a good place. I give you another thought, the last one: in Europe all the governments that have suffered from the pandemic, which have all been, have chosen the opposite path, which is to lower taxes. It cannot be that Europe's worst economy at the moment has chosen just the opposite, to raise taxes in order to stifle primarily those who generate employment. And since there has been talk of employment before, and since there are so many jobs here, especially when your Socialist ladies and gentlemen speak, I will remind you of something that is unbeatable, as the President of the Government would say: governments of the Socialist Party, 10 million unemployed; governments of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, 10 million jobs. Be proud to belong to a party, ladies and gentlemen, which has been able to bring this country forward twice. [[pointing to the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Applauds]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u95	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my first speech in this plenary by reminding you that a committee of experts has been appointed to draw up the White Paper which will be presented in the coming months with the aim of modernising taxation and adapting it to the reality of the 21st century, increasing its progressive and redistributive nature. This is a country target incorporated in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Therefore, the aim of this Government is not to raise or lower taxes; it is to modernize, simplify, provide legal certainty and improve the instruments with which to better collect; it is to ensure that it contributes to the economic capacity to better redistribute and ensure the provision of services to citizens in accordance with their needs, but up to the recommendations of the experts, the tax rules for 2022 of Title VI, which is now under discussion, are limited to the international consensus and the recommendations of the European Commission and the Toledo Pact. Indeed, according to the international consensus, the minimum corporate tax rate of 15% is introduced for companies that charge more than EUR 20 million a year or present consolidated accounts, a minimum rate with which we progress in progress. It is therefore totally false that we are increasing corporate tax to all companies. In addition, the reduction in contributions to pension schemes in the IRPF is limited by its regressive nature, according to the feeling of the European Commission and the AIReF, but such a tax benefit is reinforced for contributions to employment plans, in line with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Self-employed persons are served, in line with the consensus maintained for years, by extending the current limits that allow to be taxed by the system of income and VAT modules. So, ladies and gentlemen, the government intends to accompany fiscal changes with the pace of recovery, as it has so far demonstrated, in order to avoid unwanted effects, unlike what the People's Party did in 2012, which generally increased VAT for all, while adopting an indecent tax amnesty. [[Applauds]] Remember. Remember: the overall rate of VAT rose by three points; the reduced rate by two points; and some services rose by thirteen points. That was taxing citizens, not now. That was a tax hell. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are indeed a risk in yourself to Spain for what you did then and for what you do now. In their amendments we are asked to lower taxes, to raise expenditure, to compensate for tax cuts with more expenditure and, in addition, to complain that we do not increase the debt. They call for an impossible justification for the Government's vetoes of its amendments. Its purpose is in no way constructive and the interventions of its spokesman testify to it. Only the amendments of the People's Party to Title VI, these alone, amount to more than EUR 5 billion. And, by the way, the vetoes are totally legitimate, and they know it, and they're also endorsed by the lawyers. [[Applauds]] Look at him, they don't even know what they're saying. [[Applauds]] Our group understands that there are groups that want to incorporate requests from different groups through amendments, but they must, in our view, be addressed within the framework of global reform. Certain types of VAT will undoubtedly have to be analysed and reviewed, but bear in mind that rebates on their own do not guarantee price reductions or access to the most vulnerable of encumbered services or goods. If the real goal is to ensure access to goods and services, they also know that there are more effective alternatives. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I note that one of your amendments to reduce VAT is at the expense of the Ministry of Health. That's what they do in the Community of Madrid, isn't it? They lower taxes at the expense of the health budget, don't they? It's totally unacceptable. [[Applauds]] Socialists what we do is strengthen public health, we do not weaken it as the right does and as you do. Look, it's all right, it's all right! Stop using taxes as a bold weapon against the Government in an irresponsible manner. They know that we have not raised taxes in a general way. I have said before what we have changed, but they insist on it constantly. Even the rate update for 2022 is 1%; testimonial, much below the CPI. In addition, they talk about social contributions as taxes, when they know that they guarantee pensions and are fixed within the framework of the agreement of the Toledo Pact and the social dialogue. It is the guarantee of a right for the Spaniards and can never be understood as a threat, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is society as a whole that benefits from taxes. Providing us with resources to respond to the disease, emergencies, challenges and challenges is basic. As the pandemic has shown, strengthening the State is fundamental to being prepared for adversity. What is clear is that there have been two different ways out of the crisis. In 2012, the People's Party bet on cuts and widespread tax increases; now, we bet on maintaining income, with the ERTEs, with the protection of companies through ICO, and we bet on investment, the revival of the economy and the strengthening of the tax system, advancing efficiency and progressive. Indeed, according to the latest data published by the Tax Agency, where inflation was not yet felt, the growth in the accumulated tax collection compared to the previous year remained at 14 %, well above the initial estimates. This is a result of the success of the government's vaccination and income policy, which is enabling us to regain economic activity, grow in employment and thereby increase tax bases. But this does not mean that we are raising taxes; more is being collected, because it is being consumed more and because there are more business profits than in 2020. In fact, we see that we are reaching historical levels of membership figures; for example, there are 60,000 more affiliates in the autonomous regime than in 2019. Therefore, rejoice at some positive news, which positive news exists. Of course, I don't understand your attitude. Finally, I also don't understand why they're engaged in boycotting any glimpse of hope. According to all the forecasts of all the national and international bodies, according to the latest ones also those of the International Monetary Fund, Spain grows in 2021 and 2022 above the European average and above the advanced economies, and by 2022, up, even above what the Bank of Spain predicted. So please be glad of something. Moreover, Ms. de Ciudadanos, the AIReF and the Governor of the Banco de España acknowledged that the income estimates were prudent. So these budgets are credible. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I simply want to say that the Socialists are very proud of a country which is growing up in the face of adversities, of its response to vaccination and of a government which is fulfilling, which leaves itself behind for giving answers to citizens. And these budgets are prudent, credible and defend the general interest. That is why we will vote in favour and encourage everyone to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Title VII We continue with the debate on Title VII and, to that end, I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the debate on Title VII of the General Budgets of the State, on territorial entities, and the first thing we need to talk about, when we talk about territorial entities and their financing, is the system of autonomous financing, an obsolete, unjust, lapsed system that should have been renewed many years ago, a system that produces remarkable differences between the Spanish. It is a necessary reform, which, of course, affects local funding, but neither the PSOE nor the PP, which has had an absolute majority for many years, have done anything to change this system. Bipartisanism has always blocked that necessary reform of the financing system while watering with millions of nationalists to keep them in the Government, which currently maintains a dialogue table with the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, while the rest of the autonomous communities are still waiting for this debate to open on the reform of the financing system. We have already proposed in April - and we have been proposing this for a long time - that a proposal be submitted before the end of this budget year to ensure fair funding; that transitional measures, such as the levelling fund, be recognised until a new system is adopted, and that accumulated funding deficits be recognised, but none of that is, nor is it expected in these State General Budgets. With regard to the municipalities, and after the quagmire which it also entailed for the Government, at the time of the fall last year of the decree with which the remnants of the municipalities intended to be seized, the Government decided that it was not time to approve a fund that the municipalities urgently demanded to meet the expenses generated by the unfortunate pandemic. Well, there are no additional funds in these accounts either to help the municipalities deal with these enormous expenses they have incurred, for this government that qualifies itself as the most municipalist in history. A total of 5 billion were promised in a way similar to the 16 billion granted to the Autonomous Communities, in an agreement reached between the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Government. But that fund was not created and was replaced by certain aids, suspension of the spending rule... In short, the municipalities have not had fair, sufficient and adequate funding during the pandemic and do not have it in these General State Budgets. There is one thing we can celebrate, and it is the budget allocation to compensate communities and local entities for the implementation of the immediate VAT information system of 2017, which is indeed contained in the budgets. But this has been done by the Government because it has been forced to do so by the courts. In fact, the Government has been trying all this time to find ways not to return this money to the entities, declaring, at the time, that it could no longer return it because it was out of time, even proposing to give the autonomous communities an interest-free loan for money that was theirs, or offering deficit and indebtedness in return for the non-payment to which the Government was obliged. All groups, including also autonomous communities governed by the socialists, rejected this formula. We believe that it is important that this appropriation is in the budgets, but it is done late and badly and because it has been imposed on it by the courts, not for any other reason. It must also be said that these General State Budgets increase territorial privileges, once again increase territorial privileges against equality. More than 18 billion are transferred in 2022 to Social Security to cover the deficit hole. One of the immediate consequences of having the pension deficit covered by taxes is that the taxpayers of the common system communities will pay the benefits of all Spanish taxpayers, including the citizens of the Basque Country and Navarre, who, however, do not meet the taxes in Spain in the same way or subject to the same rules as the others. The transfer of this transfer and the new assumption of expenses that are improper to pay through taxes of all Spaniards should also carry with it the immediate, transparent and fair revision of the Basque quota, as my group has been asking for for a long time. But that's not gonna happen, is it? Why? Because those who support it are those who benefit from these privileges. Finally, these budgets also ignore one of the most serious problems of our country, which is depopulation. According to several studies, more than 20% of the municipalities in Spain will cease to exist in the coming decades, and in this I think we will all agree that it is a real drama. But the Government, which does not believe that it needs the support of the provinces punished by depopulation - except for some very specific one which has also had its prizes - for the achievement of its partisan ends, completely forgets those provinces in the public accounts whose approval is sought. These budgets lack significant and sufficient investments to support this much-needed economic and social development of emptied Spain, as well as urgent, necessary infrastructure, such as roads and railways, which connect and enable Spain to prosper from the interior. That is why we do not think that this is acceptable, and we will not support it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u99	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u100	Thank you, President. Where does citizenship go when it needs an answer to your questions or problems? It seems to be an obvious question, but sometimes it serves to highlight the essential and essential work that the municipalities of our country do. I say this, among other things, because I, precisely, come from one, that of the city of Sabadell, and I know what it is to feel helpless when that citizen cannot be given a solution or an answer or because of lack of resources or because of lack of competence, because the municipal world is that, the direct solution, the contact by putting people, names and surnames to those we serve and also to those we work for. It's that wonderful policy that you see, touch and feel. In fact, I will make my own a very correct definition that has been expressed a few hours ago by the Vice-President, Yolanda Díaz, when she said that the important thing is the politics of small things, the politics of craftsmanship, and that is also what is done from the municipalities. I know perfectly well, therefore, what it is to take advantage of every competitive loophole and express every resource for that, to improve the lives of our citizens. One example is what happens in the City of Barcelona, which without having powers and resources allocates up to six times more to public housing than the Government of the Generalitat, which has resources and powers. Therefore, the effort that local administrations make for our neighbours and neighbours must be valued. Today I would like to highlight from here precisely the importance of this Title VII, on territorial entities, because it has to do with the policy that more sleepless nights and, probably, more satisfaction we would also have to give all those that at some point in our life we have a vocation of public service; it has to do with the decentralization of the administrations, which is the way to the end and after understanding the plurinational State that is Spain; it has to do with that role of ashes of the local administrations, serving citizens with little margin, with little budget, but with a lot of waist. The amount foreseen for the 2022 budget of territorial administrations, both flows and capital, is almost €75 billion. This represents an increase of 3.2% over the current budgets. That budget increase is the way forward because we cannot continue to demand the municipalities, as was done during the PP governments, and the autonomous communities that respond directly to situations such as the pandemic without that being accompanied by the relevant tools for that response. We cannot pretend that they are the first line of containment, but that they go with one hand in front and the other behind. In this sense, these transfers that will reach the municipal corporations through these budgets also shield the democratic and constitutional role that our municipalities have. And yes, it is true that we are still awaiting the debate, inescapable and inescapable, on the local funding system, but in the meantime we are increasing almost 20% of transfers to local authorities. I would like to highlight precisely the measures aimed at local entities which have failed to meet the maximum payment deadline for suppliers. This is not a widespread problem in the local world, but the financial difficulties that these local corporations may face, which are often the smallest and the most difficult, must be alleviated. Similarly, I would also like to highlight the 5.6% increase in the budget to the financing system and inter-territorial compensation funds, despite the fact that the percentage of funding from the autonomous communities has not increased. And we have duties, ladies and gentlemen - and we have each and every one of us - to achieve a new system of autonomous financing that shields the self-government of our communities, but which is also based on the principles of solidarity and inter-territorial cooperation. The corporal. As long as we are not able to reach these two state agreements - local funding and autonomous financing - we will continue to need to increase these transfers of funds to the territorial authorities. And that is what the coalition government is about, because we are in a country that, if it wants to move forward, needs now and always to give sufficient resources to the institutions of the cities and also of our territory. That is what the coalition government is doing. That is what the progressive Government is dedicated to. That's working for people. That's what governments do. We would have to devote ourselves to that. [[Applauds]] But while this Government does this, other political leaders are dedicated to going to mass to pay tribute to fascist and genocidal dictators. [[Applauds]] Therefore, for democratic dignity, that would not happen in any democratic country in our environment. For democratic dignity, gentlemen of the PP, I would ask Mr. Married when he intends to resign. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u101	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating Title VII. I am going to refer mainly to autonomous communities; therefore, chapter I, of the uniprovincial autonomous communities, and chapter II, of the autonomous communities in general. It is a phenomenon in which in Spain, with the autonomous state, we are spending a lot of money. I start with a cast: for example, more than EUR 400 million in autonomous legislative assemblies, more than EUR 11 billion in autonomous television, EUR 250 million in ombudsmen and courts of accounts of the autonomous communities. And there are many autonomous agencies or agencies that replicate state agencies, such as meteorological, statistical or data protection agencies, autonomous police officers and consultative bodies of the autonomous communities. In the autonomous communities there are 1.8 million civil servants, who cost about 60 billion euros, 1500 official vehicles, and have opened 170 embassies, despite not having that competence. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not have any other priorities as a country? Don't the Spaniards deserve to be the centre of political action? Only by overcoming the autonomous system, which squanders tens of billions each year, will it be possible to ensure the sustainability of pensions, essential public services and our own survival as a nation. The great reflection or the great question that I have come to ask is how we have come here. From my point of view, with a triple betrayal. The first of these is that of the nationalists. In the context of the constituent debates, the model of self-government of the autonomous communities seemed to be the way to satisfy these demands of the nationalists. However, they have demonstrated in the time that they betrayed that covenant; they have not conformed, they will never conform. I wasn't satisfied. Nationalists have shown that they will never cease their efforts to achieve hypothetical sovereignty. And in all this time, why have they used the transferred skills? To sow hatred against the Spaniards in the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] This historical manipulation that has divided families and societies has also created real monsters, such as those who killed, helped to kill or collaborated with their silence in their struggle against a Spain that was theoretically oppressive. The second of the betrayals has come from the left. In principle you defend or fight for equality. And what has the autonomous state done not to generate inequalities in all the territories of Spain? [[Applauds]] The Spaniards have a big difference in health benefits, in waiting times for a medical intervention or for diagnostic tests, and you have given absolutely the same, they have contributed to these inequalities among the Spaniards. Well, I think that now Podemos's hand has involved; it seems that before they conformed with that asymmetric federal state, which is precisely another way of bringing inequality, but it is no longer just a federal state but also a republic, which is really where they unmask and bring back the face of the PSOE, the true face of the PSOE. The third betrayal is that of the People's Party, because they have embraced the development of the autonomous state and its redundant and unnecessary institutions, because it serves them as a winter refuge for when they do not rule. When they do not govern, they can plug in, place all their colleagues in the autonomous communities or pay all the favors they owe. [[Applauds]] It has been forty years in which PP and PSOE have found the perfect shelter in that maraña of institutions and chiringuitos; this should be blushed and shamed, ladies and gentlemen. Do you remember the Commission on Public Administration Reform and its reports and conclusions in 2013? They said that they were going to change many things, that they were going to suppress everything that was redundant. They didn't. Why? Because they don't care. They should be ashamed of this tradition and because in the end they have participated as authors, as responsible or perhaps as profit-making participants. I don't know if this sounds like it. As in the Gürtel case, in that plot where in the end they have benefited from something that harms all Spaniards, such as the autonomic waste. Spanish nationalist enemies, socialist and communist ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Spaniards are very tired of so many betrayals and lies. Soon they'll have to give their verdict at the polls. I hope you will repay as you deserve your betrayal to the Spaniards who have placed their trust in you, who have believed your lies and now suffer the consequences. When it has been absolutely necessary to organize rationally the action of the State, what have we done? What happened to the pandemic? A single command, it's centralized. It is obvious, not only because it is proposed by VOX, but because it is the only way to manage public action efficiently. VOX is the only party that proposes to dismantle the autonomous state to rebuild a Spain united in its diversity and wealth, to reconcile where others have sown hatred among Spaniards, to guarantee the essential services that the state must guarantee its citizens: security, the common good, justice, free development and prosperity. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u103	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr González Terol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to defend the position of my group in Title VII of these General State Budgets. The first qualification that comes to my mind is the absolute contempt of the government for the debate that arises from this Parliament; contempt that is staged with the rejection and veto of almost five hundred amendments by the opposition groups. This is the gag government, it is a government that gags the opposition debate and gags, too, as we have heard from two rulings of the Constitutional Court, these Courts with an illegal state of alarm. They steal from all Spaniards an important debate that has to do with the territorial entities, with the municipalities, with the deputies and with the autonomous communities. You are the ones who present budgets where you are able to do nothing for the municipalities and communities and, however, to raise their salaries by 2% to all members of the government. And at the same time they have the little shame of coming here and saying that they are not going to fry at taxes with that rise in taxes that they have sent to Brussels and with the EUR 4 billion of new taxes that include these General State Budgets. They create budgets based on false forecasts, 6.5% growth by 2021 and 7% growth by 2022. The European Commission itself, which is already in addition to a few rectifications of Funcas, BBVA and INE, says that the estimated growth will be 4.6% by 2021 and 5.5% by 2022. Many of my colleagues who have spoken before me have already said this, you have turned these budgets into wet paper. This would be serious for any party, but it is especially so, as some of the speakers have said, when we talk about municipalities, which are the administrations closest to the citizens and which are the administrations whose door they touch precisely at the worst times. They have little shame in talking about EUR 27 billion of European funds when they have barely executed 20%, as of 31 August 2021, of the EUR 26 billion that was supposed to arrive in Spain. Nor are their income forecasts credible, which reinflate artificially. They are unreal and useless budgets, but in the case of municipalities and autonomous communities, above, they are unfair and insufficient. They are unfair because they do not take into account the needs of the autonomous communities and the municipalities, and insufficient because they do not cover, by far, the expenditure that all territorial entities have incurred during the pandemic period and especially in the post-pandemic period. You say that you keep the allocations to autonomous communities and territorial authorities, when in reality this budget represents a 2.9% reduction on the total. And they do, above all, saying that they refuse to execute the Minister of Finance the amendment approved by the parliamentary arc, approved by all the opposition groups and not, of course, approved by the Socialist Group and Podemos, which would add €93 billion to those autonomous communities to which the COVID fund has been removed; that €16 billion fund which disappears from this budget and which is left ungranted, in this case. This is in addition to the abandonment of the municipalities; the abandonment of a budget which must have added, for example, the EUR 3 billion promised by the minister to the whole of Spain's towns and cities. Where are those millions of euros? The spokesman for Podemos said that we talked about seizing money. We beat them, I don't know if they remember, here. With 193 votes against, we defeated the royal decree that Podemos de capadillo and the Socialist Party intended to bring here to rob the municipalities 18 billion euros. [[Applauds]] And thanks to the People's Party and thanks to the consensus of many political groups, that money can be executed today in all the municipalities of Spain. Don't tell Mr de Podemos, ask the mayor of Barcelona what she thought about that royal decree, because you later approved it. But of course, one understands it when one sees what the payment for that positive vote has been. Look, the Community of Madrid is going to receive 8.4% less funding in 2021 being the autonomous community that contributes most to the fund of interterritorial solidarity. Do you want to tell me why investments in Catalonia grow by 6.1%? Do you want to tell me why investment in the Valencian Community is growing by 3.7% and to the Madrid Community, the largest contributor to the interterritorial solidarity fund, is being reduced by 8.4%? Do you have to see Mrs. Ayuso? Does it have to do with the Madrid people voting more for the People's Party or, rather, that the Madrid people have turned the Socialist Party into a residual force in Madrid? Madrid is the fourth region with the lowest investment, with 170 euros per inhabitant, while Catalonia has 287 euros per inhabitant and Valencia 239. How nice is the price of General State Budgets to stay a few more years, or a few more months, in La Moncloa! Above all they add to us a harmonization of taxes; of course upward harmonization, not as we have in the communities governed by the People's Party. We are going to harmonize assets, we are going to harmonize estates and donations, we are going to harmonize documented legal acts to further ruin all citizens. That's right, you propose a new tax model that doesn't affect the Basque Country or Navarre. What a coincidence, isn't it? Why? Because they are going to give them their positive votes at the expense of the autonomous communities that most contribute to the interterritorial solidarity fund. And if we talk about the municipalities, we have to have very little shame to say, how I've heard these days, that they're going to invest more, that they're giving more money to the municipalities. Do you know that this year you were going to have the municipalities, of the advances on the 2020 account, almost 3.5 billion euros and that again the People's Group, joining many opposition parties and many mayors of their parties who are then ashamed of what you vote here, we managed to get the minister to push back that request for a return of 3.5 billion euros? That there are more transfers from the state? But, hey, if there's less revenue, how can there be more transfers from the state? Because they're lying, because next year they're going to ask the city councils to return those advances to account and they're going to have a problem again. By the way, they also add us on a cover that increase the money they are going to return to the municipalities at the cost of VAT. Look, they're returning it because they've been forced by two sentences from two autonomous communities that resorted to the VAT refund of December 2017, which were Galicia and Castile and León, both ruled by the People's Party. What has Valencia done, what have the Balearic Islands done, what has Catalonia done? They haven't resorted to anything at all. We believe that these budgets are unfair, that they abandon once again the municipalities, that they abandon the communities, that they abandon the diputations and, above all, that they are based on false forecasts of growth that will again condemn the municipalities and the communities to have to throw some of the deficit and indebtedness and others, simply to not be able to give the public services that the citizens need and that these budgets deny to the territorial entities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u105	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Disappointment, theft, little shame and confrontation of territories. Again, Mr Terol, the same speech you made just 12 months ago. Not by repeating much a lie becomes true. It doesn't matter from the atril or from the pulpit from which it is said, it will remain a lie. That is the assessment you make when you talk about these budgets in relation to local entities and autonomous communities. Look, last year I told them they had a chance to measure their sense of state. They were key budgets, budgets to contain the worst pandemic humanity has ever experienced and I told them that they had an opportunity to measure that sense of State. Today I no longer ask you for a sense of state; I do not even ask you for a sense of loyalty with the citizenry; I do not even, of course, ask you for loyalty with the Government, but I do ask you for loyalty with the territories in which you govern, with those autonomous communities and hundreds of municipalities where you govern. Because, what are you going to tell them, that the People's Group in Congress no longer wants to participate in the State's tributes to those territories where you govern? What are you going to tell them, that the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress does not want the investments of the Recovery Plan in those territories? What are they going to tell them, that they don't want the autonomous communities to make up for the negative liquidations of 2020? What are you going to say, that you do not want to give a definitive solution to the problem that you caused in 2017 with VAT? [[Applauds]] Look, Mr. Terol, just when the numbers don't square to the right is when they square to the territories. As long as the numbers in this country don't square right, they square all the territories. These are budgets for a fair recovery, and there will be no fair recovery without territorial justice, of course not. And you know why? Because we have to offer equal opportunities to citizens, live where they live. Stop confronting the territories with each other. [[Applauds]] We have to offer equal opportunities to citizens, live where they live. And of course these budgets have one goal: to close gaps. Close gaps in health, Mr Terol, in employment policy and social gaps. Because if we can narrow and close those gaps, we'll be able to close the inequality gap. And when that money comes to the territories, what must be done is to execute it, Mr Terol, not as they have done in Andalusia, which have the COVID Fund and have thrown eight thousand health workers on the street or where they have resigned, as the health adviser of Andalusia said this week, to 123 million to create 12,000 child care places - 12,000 child care places, 123 million of the recovery funds!-. [[applause]] Is that your way of doing territorial politics, Mr. Terol? I will tell you what does not contain these budgets for the municipalities. Mr Terol, these budgets do not contain adjustment plans for municipalities, such as yours. These budgets do not contain payment plans to suppliers who suffocated municipalities, such as their own. These budgets do not contain cuts or austerity, like yours. [[Applauds]] These budgets contain no expenditure limitations using the surplus, such as yours. All these things do not contain these budgets. And there are facts, Mr Terol, that portray them. There's a data that's demolishing. If we analyze four full years of the government of President Sánchez, we see that the communities have received 490 billion euros, exactly 35.8% more than in the four years of the government of Mariano Rajoy, 130 billion euros more. That's betting on the set of territories in this country. [[Applauds]] I say that the data portray them, and it is that the financing system for 2022 is 108,792 million, much more than in the 2018 budget and 2019, that the deliveries to account are increased by more than 27%, or are compensated, as I have told you, for those negative liquidations of the year 2020, which will assume that neither the Treasury nor the deficit of the autonomous communities are affected. And then you get hives, because they talk about the recovery funds, they take it fatal. The recovery funds have been a stockade for the People's Group, and I don't understand it. It is that they feel bad about the fund recovery, they feel bad that there are 27 billion to help rebuild this country, of which 50 % will be allocated to the territorial entities. In the local entities - said a colleague - there are 19% more deliveries on account and, for the first time, the local entities have sat at the same table as the autonomous communities and as the Government of Spain; for the first time. Recovery funds are enabling many municipalities to carry out slum and building rehabilitation programmes, enabling digital transformation and modernizing administrations, making plans for local mobility, sustainability and commercial activities in both rural and tourist areas. And I'm going to ask you for a favor: stop talking about emptied Spain; stop disrespecting them. Spain is not empty, Spain is full of opportunities. What is to bet, with resources, on those territories. Stop talking about emptied Spain. [[Applauds]] These budgets represent territorial justice. They are the best tool to make citizens equal, to cohesive and vertebrate the territory. And that's your responsibility. I told you last year, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because last year they had no sense of state and they have it very easily, within reach of a finger. Have this year a sense of responsibility and loyalty with those municipalities where you govern and those communities where you govern. We will support fair budgets for all the territories of our country and for all the local entities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes Finally, we move on to the joint debate on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes. In defence of amendments, Mr García Adanero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that the government has so much allergy to Congress that it no longer comes even when the salary is going to rise, which is striking. [[Laughter and applause]] Look, it's a vilificade, an interference and a disloyalty to put a terrorist as an interlocutor for Navarre. First, when the legislature began, we were given to those who collected the nuts. Now they have already gone beyond and put those who moved the tree. That's an absolute disloyalty. They said: It can't be that in Spain... I don't know what it is. But what cannot be done is that in Spain a terrorist decides the budgets. That's what it can't be. And he makes a deal for what? In exchange for moving the fourth barracks that appear there, which is Navarra and which is part of Spain, of course by its own criteria, because it was so decided, because it made Spain possible. [[pointing out the tapestry with the shield of Spain hanging behind the Presidency]] Bildu's political objective is to remove that fourth barracks from the shield. Its goal is to create a Euskal Herria that is a chimera. It is an interference, and you are allowing that, and you are doing it behind the back of the Foral Community of Navarre, because you have no respect for anything. You said: what will people think when they go out on the street? What do you think the Navarros will think when they go out on the street, after they have given their lives to defend a Spanish and foreign Navarra, to defend freedoms, to know that the one who is speaking on his behalf is a terrorist, is the one who applauded those murders? What do you think those shipwrecks are gonna say? With what face will you go to tell your neighbours of your autonomous communities-here there are from all over Spain - for example to Andalusia, where people were killed - more than a hundred - who have budgets thanks to those who applauded those murders? How are you going to tell them? In exchange for what? [[Applauds]] In exchange for humiliating the whole of Spain. You can say whatever you want, but these are going to be budgets in exchange for prisoners. Bildu has been the first to give his support, and we already know what they have given in return by the Government. An ignominy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u110	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Yes, the fact that it is strange that, with the interestingness of the debate and with all the issues that we raise - issues that must of course be of concern to the Spaniards - it has not had the honour of coming to see us even a single minister of the government of the nation, especially when above, as Carlos García Adanero says, the salary is going to rise by 2% in this budget law. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] The additional provisions, transitional provisions and finals raise some interesting issues in these budgets. For example, there is a maximum contingent of troops employed by troops and seamen, for which the Government still does not take the decisions that would be fair. They are people who have given their lives, their work and their time for Spain and who, however, are fired at the age of 45. For example, the issue of the availability of public employment for judges and prosecutors is laid down. In Spain, we still find ourselves on an absolutely low average compared to Europe, both for judges and prosecutors. However, this Government has vetoed the amendment that we have tabled to increase the public employment of judges and prosecutors from two hundred to three hundred places and also to adjust their remuneration, because, so that everyone knows, our judges and prosecutors are among the worst paid professionals in the countries around us; not only are they few, but they are also very poorly paid. They do not - they have also wanted to veto it - establish a higher troop replacement rate when it comes to investigating staff in the service of public administrations. Anyway, what do we want in Spain for research staff now that we're all already vaccinated, right? This is too modern for you. They have also vetoed that amendment which we are proposing so that until 2030 up to 3% of gross domestic product can be invested in science and innovation. I have been drawn to some curious provision, such as authorization to ensure civil and accounting liability for State administration officials. Let us now see whether you are going to copy the insurance system which the Government of Catalonia has with regard to those who commit crimes and whose responsibility is being brought before the Court of Auditors. You go up all the fees that you think about, but, of course, you continue with the mantra that taxes do not go up. With taxes they put an absolutely unacceptable rejoin to all Spaniards. We are told from the rostrum - we have heard it before here - that only a few companies, a few companies, will pay 15% of the company tax at the end. No, they're going to connect all that ascent, precisely, to their suppliers and they're going to reduce their business. With this, what they are going to achieve is going to be a lower degree of negotiation in small and medium-sized enterprises and, as has also been said here, what they are going to do is to reduce the deductions that take place for general interest purposes, such as cinematographic films in Spanish, employment deductions, deductions for hiring disabled people or investment in science and innovation. And this makes it the most progressive government in history. These additional provisions also include social aid and specific aid for certain diseases, but see the EUR 100 million programme for those families who have a member who is suffering from LA. You do not respond to that old claim from thalidomide patients, who have recently manifested themselves out here. They also veto our aid plan for those who suffer from rare diseases, the national strategy against pain, the national plan against suicide, when there are currently eleven suicides daily, one more per day compared to before the pandemic. You maintain a programme of support for young entrepreneurs, but you also veto deductions in the IRPF with regard to startups. On the other hand, all the amendments we put forward in relation to youth employment, housing and social security contributions that young people and businesses have to pay also prevent us from doing so. They also rejoin young people, because they increase the quota of self-employed people. And you say in these provisions that you have an aid plan with regard to SMEs, but it turns out that you also veto all the tax reductions that we propose with regard to corporate tax. Look, thanks to the fact that we've joined a few of them, we've managed to get a COVID fund out of them. We have supported that amendment that has been put forward by another parliamentary group and you are already telling us, with as little shame as you have, that you may not be implementing the COVID Fund, when your own autonomous communities have already budgeted it in their own budgets. We have also drawn the classification of tourism as a national strategic activity in Citizens, although we have also been vetoed by the EUR 20 billion aid scheme for tourism, which temporarily reduces tourism's VAT to 4%. You plan in these additional provisions, for example, amounts to celebrate the bicentenary of the National Police, which is very commendable and are, of course, acts that must be put in value, but not wage equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies, that is not, nor is it a supplement of insularity with respect to the State Security Forces and Bodies in Balearics and Canary Islands, nor a supplement for the State Security Forces and Bodies to remain in Catalonia. That's right, they don't say anything when their Republican Left partners in Catalonia do those things in front of Via Layetana. Their budgets are not credible. You're not going to assume enough revenue to cover all public spending, and you're going to spend what's always with you, you promise a lot and then you don't execute your own budgets. As I said in my previous speech, the most progressive government in history has no heart and no shame. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u111	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Among the amendments that have vetoed us, in addition to those I referred to earlier, there are some really important ones, such as amending the IRPF in order to eliminate discrimination against returned immigrants by making finance, for example with an exemption from foreign income or by amending the double payer criteria so as not to penalise immigrants, among other things, with that double standard, with that double threshold of declaration ranging from 14 000 to 22 000 euros, which should also apply to lower incomes. Also among the vetoed amendments is that which has to do with predoctoral contracts, which we find really surprising, because this was a commitment of the government parties when they were in opposition. It is an elementary issue of social justice that pre-doctoral contracts are subject to the Workers'Statute and are therefore entitled to compensation at the end of the contract. As I say, not only is it not voted for, but it is not even allowed to be voted on. Among the BNG proposals there are some of great interest, such as the transfer of properties from Sareb to the Autonomous Community of Galicia to make public housing policy. We find it surprising that, with the serious housing problem that exists, there are buildings that are empty and unused and that are immobilized by an agency that is dependent on the public administration. There is the reversal of the management of hydroelectric concessions to the public sector in order to be able to make energy policy. We are defending a Galician public energy company, which could start precisely with these expired concessions; instead of returning to the private sector for greater profit from large companies. There is the possibility of setting specific electricity tariffs in surplus producing communities, which is the case with Galicia. That is why we advocate a Galician electricity tariff, because we believe that we are entitled to compensation, as we pay very high social and environmental costs for that status as a producing country. Or there is one that we believe is common sense, such as ending the use of glyphosate in road cleaning of roads that depend on the State Administration. We think it is surprising that this continues to happen at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u114	Thank you very much. In the Democratic Party we have tabled a number of important amendments to this section of additional and final provisions, and I will draw your attention to some. We have presented some references to tax benefits priority in the treatment of sponsorship in some events that we believe are of interest, because public-private collaboration also needs to be realized through these tax incentives so that private financing contributes to the realization of certain events. We have therefore tabled an amendment to extend - because I had already had - these tax benefits to the Barcelona Equestrian Challenge, also to the celebration of the millennium of Montserrat 2025. We have also presented an initiative in similar terms for the celebration of the two hundred years of Passeig de Gràcia, which is also important. And we have also presented an initiative of similar characteristics to make possible the reconstruction and remodeling of a century-old swimming pool in Barcelona as is the swimming pool of Club Natació Barcelona. I would also like to emphasise an amendment that we have tabled, which, of course, I recognise, is perhaps not the most appropriate form of approval in the supplementary provision of the budgets, but we believe that the philosophy that emerges is important. You will know, some more than others, that the socio-health system in Catalonia has a very peculiar feature, and that many of these health services and many of the social services provided in Catalonia are done through non-profit entities, which are financed virtually or mostly by public budgets, but that there is this historical tradition of being able to provide these public services through these non-profit entities that guarantee in some regions fully health services or services in the social field. Therefore, in view of the possibility of applying European funds, when calls for European funds are being made in certain areas such as health or social services to finance certain actions in public buildings or facilities, these entities are excluded from participating in the procedures for applying these European funds. A solution should therefore be sought to ensure that these public service providers financed by public entities, even if they are private, such as non-profit entities, have the capacity to access these funds as well. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few days ago, the president of the Italian Republic presided over a historic session and I was reminded of a dogma, an axiom also of an Italian named Alberto Brandolini, who is the dogma of the asymmetry of stupidity, and who says exactly that the energy to counter a stupid idea is exponentially higher than the energy to be able to elaborate that stupidity. After what I have heard today, after the concatenated presentations I have heard in this Chamber, we have really made an apologia of stupidity, and I will explain why. Look, I've been thinking for a while that the worst is no longer the lie, the Abalos doctrine of the permanent lie, that lie that is chained one by one and is being mortified, because one lie after another, in the end, ends up eradicating the lie, but I think that the worst thing this country has is the charlatanerie, and I also really say it, because it is something that is very widespread lately in the political doctrine of the whole of Europe. And today we have seen here an example of charlatanry, is what is called the comma language, which is to use certain expressions that are completely contrary to the truth on the basis seemingly of a series of a prioriisms or apodical affirmations that more or less cover a certain appearance of truth or sociological veracity when they have nothing to do with reality. This, from the classical point of view, was called draining the lump, and you are specialists in draining the lump. Look, stop making historical memory laws and start making a budget memory law. Start making a law of budget memory. You know why? To remind you that you were the first activists of what you called austereicide, because you have forgotten May 2010. They've forgotten, it's a kind of sidereal sima in their Socialist Party consciousness. Because, by the way, every time you guys talk about memory, where do we have to go back? At the birth of the foundation of your party, which you feel so proud of? To Paul Iglesias II, to Paul Iglesias II, where do we have to go back in order to talk seemingly about the budgetary deficiencies or what are the keys and the budgetary foundations of his party? We can also make a recommendation to the United Nations. I believe that you are already singing the International...If you, without blushing, vote in favour of the section of the Royal House, if you are being made to look like solicitous courtesans. [[Laughter]] They have no problem voting for the Royal House section; I sleep Republican, I rise monarchical and, by the way, issue any opinion, that is, that is, that it is possible and that nothing happens with the bases, with the circles with the squares, which is like the Borges circle, where any idea fits, gives exactly what is said. I would recommend to the Sánchez Government, of course, to change the veto by voting, I say this for this undemocratic hemorrhage of vetoing absolutely everything. Can we vote? Can we really contrast programs? Can we really validate whether, as some say, we have an economic program or not? Of course we have it, it's that they've practically vetoed it in its entirety. But, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: a roundabout for Jaca. We have been denied 2100 amendments. A roundabout for Jaca, for my province, won't you give it to me? Isn't she good? Is it bad? Is everything we've done wrong? Are the 2100 amendments bad? What's wrong, that everything's bad? Isn't that the political veto? Why don't we replace it with the practical vote? [[Rumors]] Please, it's something as simple as answering that question. But let's keep going. I would recommend to the PNV that it give up the transfer of the minimum vital income, the IMV, which has already become the IMV, the minimum income of Basque nationalism, the tax that the Government has to pay to Basque nationalism with the aim of supporting these General Budgets of the State. They give up; they give up and we show height of country, nation of nations, right? But I also ask Mary Jesus Montero to understand the concept of stability well. Stability is budgetary stability, not the stability of such utterly unethical and unnatural pacts, pacts for the formation and stabilization of the Government itself. And I can't ask Escriva for anything anymore because I don't know who to ask, whether the minister or the technician. Look, I'm going to ask your conscience and your consciousness: to remember what you were saying, to remember that when you were president of the AIReF, you said that there were 30 billion that were unproductive spending. And that's where we started, because we built the budget building on the basis of trying to prevent 30 billion unproductive spending. That the Memorious Write remembers it; that the Memorious Write Remembers what he said five years ago, because he has forgotten; one more exercise of maquetism, which Marlaska has already offered and which is now offering Mr Escrivá, which does not come, of course, because he will be giving lessons of Economic Theory anywhere. But with that 30 billion we can draw up a tax programme. Of course we can lower taxes, because we have 30 billion margins, and there we can abolish the property tax - by the way, there are only two countries in Europe that maintain the property tax -; we can abolish the inheritance and donation tax - by the way, since they attack individual freedom, at least they do not attack intergenerational freedom -. We can also, of course, phase out tourist rates, and we can reduce airport rates, and we can reduce the VAT on masks, and we can apply a tax plan to reduce the bill for light - of course we can do that -. At the same time, because we have this margin of EUR 30 billion - which is immediate, because public spending is immediate - we could do many things, such as, for example, increasing the supply of public employment for justice personnel, or increasing the complements of the National Police and the Civil Guard, or increasing the salaries of the Armed Forces linearly. It's 30 billion, but no, you're on. We could make a plan for children, to eradicate child poverty, to ensure the free - as we propose in the additional provisions - of the first cycle of Child Education. You guys doing teens? The bonus of 400 euros at the age of 18. Can anyone in the room explain to me about 18 years old? Can anyone explain to me about 18 years old? This is like that wet dream Zapatero had when he said: what do I have to do in the budget law? And all of a sudden, he said, we're going to create the baby check to promote birth, and it turns out it was given to those who were already pregnant. But how are you going to promote the birth to those who were already pregnant? These were the great occurrences of Moncloa. [[Rumors]] It's all crazy. I'll finish, Mr. President, by now it's light. [[Rumors]] I'm done, I'm done. Don't worry, I'm done. You're exhausted. That said, I'll tell you one thing. This is like what Jonathan Swift said two hundred years ago: The lie flies and the truth gets caught trying to catch it. Look, you can lie whatever you want...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u117	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u118	The corporal. ...they can manipulate the truth, they can miss the truth, but do you know what's left of them? Be ignorant even of your own ignorance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u120	Thank you, President. Today we enter the final phase of processing the General Budgets of the State here, in this House, in Congress. It is a moment that we all know is of vital importance, not to Members of Parliament, but to the country itself, a moment that seems to call us to that of hoisting our shoulders, more in a post-pandemic scenario. Well, it seems that the right-wings do not understand it in this way, they do not stop shouting and shouting to the four-winds the futility of this norm, of the General Budgets of the State, predicting and proclaiming catastrophic scenarios - unserious, by the way - and thinking of a situation that leads us to a fatal fate. The three right-wings are clear that they have joined that motto of the worst, best, clear symptom, on the other hand, of the little or nothing that matters to the welfare of the people of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets give continuity to a road map launched with the 2021 budgets, which, for the first time in a long time, placed the needs of the people, the citizens, at the centre and put an end to the policies of cuts, austereicide and failure of the People's Party. These are, therefore, budgets for consolidating change. They are clearly committed to the transformation of our socio-economic model and to greater social protection. Social progress is numerous. To name a few, more than 23% of the funding for dependency policies is increased; EUR 7 billion is earmarked for employment promotion; more than EUR 5 billion is earmarked for new health allocations; and - I would like to stress - 500 million is earmarked for equality policies, of which more than half will be earmarked for the fight against macho violence. All this is within these budgets that you do nothing but attack and attack. It is also true - let us recognise this - that these budgets have been improved in their handling of the Commission through compromise amendments negotiated by the coalition government and the various parliamentary groups that supported the investiture. With regard to these amendments, I have heard you say here real atrocities, which seem to lead us to a disaster situation. Well, I take this moment to put on the table some of these negotiated amendments, negotiated with other groups in the House because I think they have value, also for the Basque Group of the United Nations. I am talking about the asbestos compensation fund, an improvement which, as I said, has been incorporated into the Commission and which we welcome. But why was it so important for us, for the United Nations We can, for the Basque Group of the United Nations We can, this incorporation? Well, I'll tell you very briefly. Firstly, because it is fair to put an end to the lack of protection of workers who have had to be in contact with this cancerous matter, asbestos, which has made them sick and which is often a death sentence. Secondly, because it is a proposal that comes from the Basque Parliament with a great political consensus, which is unusual, as you know, at the moment. Thirdly, because it is a historical demand of the associations of victims of the Amyanth and of the trade unions, with which we have more consensus - political, social and trade union consensus - and this would allow us Members of the United Nations to bring to this House a demand from civil society and, on the other hand, as we usually like to do, to accompany that struggle on the street. [[Applauds]] And finally, because it coincided with a philosophy of action of the Basque Group of United Podemos in Madrid. Our idea has always been to come to Madrid from Euskadi to contribute, to strengthen the common, to strengthen the bonds, to seek the well-being of all the working families of this country, since victims of asbestos, although there are many in Euskadi, there are also in Catalonia, Galicia and Madrid, and we move away - we do not like - from that philosophy that other groups practice to come to Madrid to say exclusively what is my thing. In any case, the road is not over. The processing of a law that we hope will be in force in a few months is ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, these new budgets are expansive - I repeat - social and ambitious, and these features are also highlighted in the additional and final provisions and in the annexes. On the one hand, it is true that a good regulatory technique advises a restrictive criterion in the elaboration of this final part, but it is no less true that these budgets are not any law. It is a law that marks the political direction of the country for the whole year and must therefore present an ambitious project and deploy all its normative capacities. Also, these additional provisions reflect the social nature. We could talk about investment in R & D+i and that the additional provisions of these budgets facilitate the creation of public employment and allow known advances with a new complement to reduce the gender gap in pensions and other social benefits and we could also talk about the cultural bonus, young man. Finally, there is a multitude of progress in these provisions or in that final part of the Budget Act. And I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, when a situation of economic and health difficulties comes - like the one we have - there are two ways to govern. The first is to apply the shock doctrine, we saw it in the 2008 crisis, when cuts policies aggravated the health of our economy and caused pain and suffering. But there is, and we have demonstrated - this coalition government has shown - another way out of the crisis: we have created a social shield, a government that has been able to give a response not only to solidarity but also to this great crisis. Therefore, these budgets are an example of that policy, of good policy and of putting people at the centre, a policy that takes care of the public so that the public takes care of people, without leaving anyone behind. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the light reached the figure of EUR 236.51 per megawatt per hour; that is, six times more expensive than exactly a year ago. However, the additional provisions of the bill authorize the creation of a consortium called the National Research Centre for Energy Storage, with indefinite effect, and say that it will be to address the challenges of green energy management, innovations in energy storage for industrial demands and the needs of society in a sustainable energy future. This is what the new ecological mantra costs us. The Government uses these provisions to make partisan politics, to charge them with ideology and to assure Sánchez la Moncloa, granting the enemies of Spain what no one in their right mind would do. The budget within the budgets: 115 additional provisions, 6 transitional provisions, 27 final provisions, plus all those which have been incorporated through amendments. More provisions in the draft than articles! And that is what the 2015 resolution on regulatory technical guidelines stipulated that they should be used restrictively, but the only government restrictions are for the Spanish. Restrictions on troops and navy. The maximum troop and navy strength shall not exceed 79,000 troops. And the solution for those forced to retire at the age of 45 has been to propose that they become truckers, given the shortage of drivers, or enter sectors such as security or digitalisation. Restrictions on access to judicial and prosecutorial careers, which may not exceed the ceiling of 200 places. In 2021 there were 240; in 2018, 300, proof of what justice interests this government. Spain is the third nation with the least judges of the European Council and at the head with the most lawsuits. Slow justice moves away from the idea of justice. There are also no incentives for family formation or birth. Spain has lost more than 4 million young people in 20 years. The Spanish are already the Europeans who have the least children and who later become mothers; we will be one of the longest-lived countries in 2050. Something's wrong with your policies, gentlemen of the government. However, the Ministry of Equality has had a 15% increase in 2022: up to 525 million, half of them to combat gender-based violence. In five years, the equal leave has increased tenfold. Penalization of savings by reducing the annual maximum contribution to pension schemes from EUR 8000 to EUR 2000 in the past year. This year it has fallen further: 1500 euros. However, the Government of Sánchez and its partners are magnanimous in annual state subsidies for political parties and their security, which rise to 82 million euros -19 million euros more than the previous year -, increased by election expenses in a year in which no election appointments are expected. Or yes, ladies and gentlemen? Will this have to do with the creation of the young cultural bonus, since you already know that young people do not follow them? A maximum amount of EUR 400 per beneficiary, with a political catalogue closed; no bullfighting, of course. This is the Spanish agenda, the agenda of all Spaniards, and in it we already support the end of subsidies to political parties, trade unions and employers. [[shows an agenda]] [[Applauds]] By the way, the security of the political parties must refer to the two escorts of Podemos arrested after the coercions and stones that suffered VOX and the police in Vallecas on 8 April. Or the protection Mr. Marlaska gives our party. Nor do they spare in hiring staff from foundations or public sector consortia, with a replacement rate of between 110 and 120 %. These entities serve as a refuge for the placement of supporters of government parties and for the propagation of ideological agendas with public money. Pure nepotism. It also updates the amount of the financial benefit provided by Law 3/2005 of 18 March for those citizens of Spanish origin who were displaced abroad during their minority as a result of the Civil War and who developed most of their lives outside the national territory. Among the own and priority activities of sponsorship, another year is refocused on the gender perspective, which all occupies it. The amount of social security benefits is set at EUR 28 as a supplement to contributory pensions for the reduction of the gender gap. Mr Sánchez has been measured by the separatists and heirs of ETA. They amend the budget and ask for everything: 12 million euros for audio-visuals in official languages other than Spanish; manage the minimum living income; implement rural road projects in the Pallars region, in Lleida, with 7 200 000 euros, to promote the use of spiders and give lessons to the technicians of Hacienda; electric transport in Álava; promote other vegetarian gastronomic offers in dining rooms and public institutions - prepare in the dining rooms of Congress -; the creation of the Spanish agency for supervision of artificial intelligence, etc. The amendments that they do not like are vetoed, alleging, yes, an increase in expenditure or a reduction in income. The Bureau accepted his master's veto, since they had a majority thanks to the approval of the People's Party, and that was a settled matter. [[Applauds]] Again budgets of ruin for all Spaniards, less for the chiringuitos, the amiguetes and related to the government. Budgets again with the ETA stamp: prisoners for support; so much mounts. They'll have us in front of them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u123	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u124	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, last year - we all remember - you declared yourselves on a budgetary strike. This year you have decided to come to the Committee on Budgets but with the work of others, you have participated in the vote but with the amendments of other groups. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros told us earlier that the acts have consequences. Let me see how you explain to Mr Abascal that you voted for a Puigdemont amendment. We have had five hours of debate on the budgets here and we have talked about anything but the budgetary content, the general budget of the State. Why? Because you are not interested; you are not interested in us talking about budgets because you know that they are good budgets for the economic and social recovery that our country needs; they are fair budgets despite having an unfair opposition. [[Applauds]] Because we already know what you don't like about these budgets; you don't like them because you don't find what you like. These budgets do not rescue banks, they rescue people. These budgets do not cut the welfare state, they reinforce it. These budgets do not freeze pensions, but raise them. There are no pharmaceutical co-sponsors, no tax increases. [[Applauds]] These Budgets do not feed vulture funds, they carry out social housing policies. [[Applauds]] These budgets do not ignore young people; on the contrary, they look into their eyes. That's why you don't like them, because you can't find anything you did; you're the opposite. Look, after your congress in Andalusia - you have gone to Mass without knowing very well what Mass you were going to - you have come to the conclusion that you are going down to the street. [[Rumors]] After thirty-two years since the creation of his party, they have come to the conclusion that now is the time to go down the street. Come down; go down to the street and see how there are broken tiles instead of carpets and carpets; come down and see how much these budgets are needed for citizens. [[Applauds]] Lower and explain why they vote against updating the indices that allow people to receive subsidies every month and why they vote against the interprofessional minimum wage. Please explain that since you arrived in the government, President Pedro Sánchez has raised the inter-professional minimum wage by 30% and we have integrated the minimum living income. If you go down the street, you'll realize how important it is. Come down and explain to people why they did not support the protection of jobs and boast in front of them also that when you get to the government you will take everything away, you will repeal everything. Do it. And they also explain to the cultural sector, when they go down the street, that they do not support them, because in the provisions comes the support to the sector and the cultural industry, with the cultural bonus for young people. Weak arguments, Mr. Garcés. [[Applauds]] Chattering, you said; children, I can tell you. Children both for the vetoes and for the pacts. The spokesman for the People's Party said earlier that what was happening to us was that we were irritated by the government of freedom in Madrid; to us. Are we really, or are your Whatsapp groups irritated by the government of freedom in Madrid? [[Applauds]] Because even if you vote against these budgets, we are not going to block the Whatsapp, quiet. [[Laughter and applause]] It's very hard to take them seriously. On 23 May 2017, 4000 amendments were not discussed. [[Rumors]] If this is anti-depressive, democratic hemorrhage and budgetary cordon, what did Montoro do in 2017 what was it? It's 4,000, four times more than you do now, when you've done it all your life. Well, not all my life in those amounts. I mean, when you're in government the vetoes are fine; but when you're in opposition the vetoes are wrong. [[Rumors]] And Mr. Garcés, I respect Jaca. If you defend a roundabout for Jaca, it's not roundabout. Respect. [[Applauds]] And if that amendment is well done, it will be put to the vote, it is not vetoed. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Second respect, Mr. Garcés. Don't get nervous. Secondly, I respect the Members of my group. Of the ignorant, nothing, Mr. Garcés. We're used to their insults. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] They always resort to insults when there are no arguments. And another thing that criticizes us are the pacts, which criticize them with another childish argument and very little serious. Do you know how many amendments the government has agreed with the Independenceists in the Committee on Budgets? Two. [[Rumors]] Do you know how many amendments you have voted for - do not get nervous - in the Committee on Budgets with the Independenceists? Do you know how many? Well, 177. Two in front of 177. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That we voted in favour of 5031, bad. That you vote in favour of 5032, well. That the government accepts the 5035 is bad, but when you give it support it is good. Same childish argument as with vetoes. [[Applauds]] When you support the amendments, good, but when you support the government, bad. Chatter shop. He said it very well, he couldn't define it better, Mr. Garcés. And Citizens, Mr. Bal, you have given me a lot of work, a lot of work, I recognize it. I've come to the conclusion that they have more records than a customs office. Let's see how they explain it. They vote in favour of nine amendments by Bildu, they vote against - with another photo - the Royal House together with Bildu, Esquerra and Puigdemont, they embrace all the amendments by the People's Party, at the same time they vote in favour of half of Puigdemont -225-, they vote 188 amendments by Esquerra Republicana and I have not been able to count them from Bel because I really lost count. This has really been a buffoon, all the amendments together, a cocoa. [[Applauds]] Mr. Bal, I don't know who is who has no shame or who has no heart, as you told me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u125	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u126	I'm done, I'm done, Mr. President. Look, it's not the budgets that you like, we know, because they're two very different ways to manage them, but despite their childishness, despite their weak arguments, I tell you that we're not going to waste a minute, that we're not going to lose our heads and that this week we're going to get the budgets that our country needs moving forward. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-22-CD211122.u127	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
