ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Appearance, at his own request, of the President of the Government to the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to report to the extraordinary European Council held on 24 and 25 May, and to the ordinary European Council of 24 and 25 June 2021, as well as to the political and economic situation. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On 22 July 1977 the solemn joint opening session of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate was held, following the constituent elections of 15 June 1977, the first democratic elections after the end of the dictatorship. The opinion of the Joint Committee was voted in both houses on 31 October 1978 and the rapporteur, who was the senator for the appointment of the head of state in those first courts, Hernández Gil, said something that should be remembered today. I quote: In the brief history of the renaissance Spanish parliamentary life there is complete evidence that ideological differences do not exclude, but even propitiate, relations of compression, of companionship and friendship. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the integrative spirit of the Constitution: concord. And this must continue to be the spirit of the Constitution: dialogue and agreement. Concordia, as you know, is a civic expression that literally means: with heart. It evokes the spirit of reaching agreements from the discrepancy, the spirit of dialogue, of reaching agreements, pacts, of always giving the opportunity to dialogue, to negotiation, the spirit of uniting the Spanish in a common project, rather than dividing them between good Spanish and bad Spanish or good and bad Catalans. Today, as then, there is a transformative illusion that we see above all in our younger people to realize the potential of our present capacities as a society. That is why I want to be very clear at this time of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen: the spirit of the Constitution remains alive, Concordia was not only for once; it was a lasting purpose in the time that we must recover from all, and that spirit is the one that differentiates the democratic policy from the negation of the opponent. Between them, the Government will always choose democratic harmony. Political and territorial discord - they will have listened to me in recent days - is a burden on cohesion; discord is a burden on Spain's social and economic progress, especially after this pandemic. The difference in our ideals should not confuse us with the higher democratic ideal that unites us, and is that we are all good Spaniards, we are all good Catalans, we are all good Andalusians, we are all good Madriders, we are all good... - whatever you think you are -. That constitutional spirit was overwhelmingly imposed in the referendum of 6 December 1978 in which the Spanish people adopted the Magna Charter, a constitution that has since allowed us to peacefully resolve all the conflicts we have faced. It has allowed us political alternation in the Government, it has allowed us to carry out extraordinary and formidable administrative decentralization, expanding cohesion and opportunities to all the territories of our country, it has allowed us to put an end to terrorism, with the threat of violence, it has allowed us to have a strong extension of new rights and freedoms. A few days ago the law of euthanasia came into force in our country, the rights of collectives such as that of the LGTBI - yesterday we approved a preliminary draft in the Council of Ministers - or the firm and unequivocal commitment with real and effective equality between men and women embodied by the General Courts in many laws, which we have logically promoted since the Council of Ministers. Finally, it has enabled us to live together and make progress in peace, and today it must help us to what we call the reunion, because a full democracy, which has all the instruments to renew itself and a constituent spirit which, as a permanent power, has demonstrated something very important on countless occasions during these past forty-five years, is to be able to cope with adversity and integrate our rich and fruitful diversity. Therefore, progress, unity and peaceful coexistence. Our democracy began to walk thanks to the generous embrace of men and women who, without sharing the same ideas, dialogued and understood that the only option was and is the agreement. They did the best they could; I think they did it right, so let's prove ourselves and ourselves now that we can do it at least like them and them. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and under Rule 203 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I appear before you to demand the spirit and letter of the Spanish Constitution, which belongs to us all, including those who legitimately wish to amend it. I will also report on the political and economic situation in the country. I will also report on the extraordinary European Council held on 24 and 25 May and the ordinary Council on 24 and 25 June. However, I would like to begin by referring to the grace measures agreed by the Government on 22 June for those convicted in the trial, who remained in prison - let us recall - after forty-four months. And so that it may appear in the Journal of Sessions, I will be very concrete in the explanation of these. The pardon, as you know, is an instrument fully recognized in our legal system, a measure of grace by which the penalty imposed for an offence is totally or partially annulled. This formula has been regulated in Spain Since 18 July 1870, it has been modified and developed also in our democratic legislation, it is expressly contained in article 62 of our Constitution; ultimately, the faculty of pardon is fully constitutional. This figure does not, of course, represent any legal exceptionality in our country since it is present in most democratic countries in our environment. Since 1979, ladies and gentlemen, more than 18,100 pardons have been granted in our country by successive democratic governments. All democratic governments, without exception, have exercised this power. Pardon is an exceptional instrument which, as is apparent from the law, should be applied only when there are reasons for either justice or equity or social utility; of better public utility. Its granting or not is a graceful, discretionary political decision, which corresponds exclusively to the executive branch of Spain and, therefore, since it is a political measure, it moves on a level different from the judicial level. This is important because it is based on absolute respect for the conviction and does not question or review the actions of the sentencing court. Therefore, the Government does not question the Supreme Court's rulings at all. When the government presided over by Mr Aznar granted more than 6,200 pardons, it was not questioning the judges' actions. When Mr. Rajoy's government granted pardon to 898 convicted persons, he was not questioning the court's actions. Whether they were right or not, they were making political decisions according to their criteria and within their legal powers. Therefore, the first issue that I would like to share with you is that pardon is a legal and fully constitutional measure, not only when it is adopted by the People's Party, but when it is adopted by any legitimate government, and this progressive government - I know very well that it irritates the banks of the right and the far right - is as legitimate as any government headed by members of the People's Party, and it is because it has been formed thanks to the votes of legitimate representatives of Spanish and Spanish out of impeccable democratic elections. The second question, ladies and gentlemen, is that pardon, unlike amnesty, which some proclaim, does not deny the existence of the crime or the responsibility of the perpetrators; it only involves the forgiveness or remission of the penalty or part of it. The pardons to the nine prisoners tried and convicted were requested, as you know, according to the requirements of the law, by various natural persons and also by entities. In other words, the Government certainly did not promote these pardons from the outset. The Government began to process them, as required by law, and in that case the sentencing court issued a report that - let us recall - is not binding. Finally, on the 22nd of last day, following a wide deliberation by the Council of Ministers, the Government decided to grant the nine pardons requested individually. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, is a discretionary measure, as I said before, but not arbitrary. In fact, article 9.3 of the Constitution prohibits the arbitrariness of public authorities. For that reason, in addition to complying with the legally established procedure, it must be substantiated. I would like to explain to you the details of the measures of grace approved below. First, the nine who were still in prison, who took responsibility for their actions, and therefore denied Santiago Vilas, Meritxell Borràs and Carles Mundó because they had already served the full penalty and paid the fine. Secondly, the nine concerned receive a partial pardon, which extinguishes the prison sentence from the time they are granted, i.e. the prison sentence that remains to be served. The disqualification sentence imposed on them by the sentencing court lasts. And thirdly, pardons are conditional; that is, they cease to be effective if they commit a serious offence again within three to six years. According to articles 13 and 33 of our Criminal Code, a person sentenced to imprisonment for more than five years is considered a serious offence. In the event, therefore, that one of the pardoned persons recommits such a crime within the prescribed time limit, he would go to prison and add the remaining years to the sentence set for the new offence. The terms of conditionality have been established in accordance with the personal and individual circumstances of each of the convicted persons. Therefore - I repeat - it is a measure of individual, partial and conditioned grace, and in the motivation of each of them it is detailed that are granted for reasons, as I said before, of public utility; that is, for reasons that serve the collective interests, the general interests of Catalan society and of the whole of Spanish society and, therefore, not the individual interests of each of the pardoned. In addition to the general statement of reasons, each of the files contains an individual statement of reasons for each of the convicted persons, justifying the measure of grace and the conditionality applied in each case. The Government has considered, ladies and gentlemen, that this step can contribute effectively to the objective of achieving democratic coexistence between Catalans and Catalans. Given the context in which the facts were committed and the profile of the convicted, it is clear the eminently political dimension that these grace measures acquire. Is there any guarantee, will your ladies and gentlemen - and I am sure it will be the subject of the debate - that this step will contribute to the definitive resolution of the crisis in Catalonia? It is clear that there are no definitive guarantees, since political actions are never mathematical truths. But there are some facts, ladies and gentlemen, which lead us to believe that the granting of this measure of grace can alleviate the division that exists within Catalan society and can therefore facilitate dialogue, agreement within Catalan society. We cannot forget that a very high percentage of Catalans and Catalans are in favour of pardons. There are hundreds of thousands of Catalans who identify with the political ideas of those who were in prison, but there are also a large number of people who, without identifying themselves with independentist ideas, even if strongly opposed to them, value their situation in prison within Catalonia as an obstacle to coexistence and understanding. Catalan society is aware that these years have been sterile and painful, so Catalan society manifests an unstoppable will for reunion, and that reunion must start with determined steps to be able to start not from scratch, but yes again; with steps that we have for dialogue and also to foster a context of agreement, and in that context the Government of Spain has taken the first step. The Executive therefore believes that pardons are a first response to the serious social and political crisis in Catalonia and, by extension, also in our country, in Spain, for several years already - too many years - and will act on all fronts to try to overcome it, to try to repair it. We're in the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. The law will be applicable whenever necessary, that has not changed or will change, but the judicial process is clear that it is not by itself valid to ensure coexistence in Catalonia and the political leaders must not rest our own political responsibility in the courts. [[Applauds]] I have been demanding for years - first in the opposition and now in the Government - for many years, before even being President of the Government, the need to make policy to resolve this crisis, and I now ratify that commitment. The pardons, I insist, are constitutional, they are granted for reasons of public utility, and I would also like to explain to you why they are granted now, at this time, and not before or after. At all times I have maintained that the overcoming of the political situation originating in the last decade in Catalonia should be the result of politics, that politics should repair the problems of coexistence that had arisen from a set of politically-recognised actions that were wrong. It is true that there had also been a breach of the law, but that action has already been corrected, it has already been sanctioned. The political problem persists, that is, a problem of coexistence, and it is politics that must solve this problem, and the time is now. In 2017, ladies and gentlemen, it was essential to resort to the law to ensure constitutional order and curb the violation of rights. In 2019, with the streets of Catalonia on fire - let's remember the images in Barcelona - it was essential to claim the authority of the Supreme Court, which had handed down the judgment, and to ensure that that judgment would be fulfilled. The state could not admit any kind of blackmail and now, in the summer of 2021, the scenario is quite different. And it is, in the first place, because the convicted have already served a good part of their sentence; in fact, some of them have settled their accounts with the law and have regained freedom, while nine of them had served 44 months in prison. Secondly, the procedure resulting from the request for pardons has fulfilled all the procedures and should be resolved by the Council of Ministers. Thirdly, and changing the context, Spanish society and Catalan society are about to leave behind the worst health and social crisis of the last century; it emerges from this emergency with a new awareness of the value of coexistence, knowing how much we need each other to face extreme situations such as those we are experiencing. Fourthly, because all economic indicators announce that recovery will be intense and firm over the coming months and years. The European Commission, as you know, has just approved the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan presented by the Government of Spain. The more than €70 billion over the next three years will immediately start to come in the form of direct transfers from European funds. In short, everything is ready to open up a horizon of growth and progress throughout the country. This factor also underlines the importance of addressing the new stage with a strengthened, revitalized coexistence and counting on all the economic energies that can be provided by the whole of Spain and a community as important as Catalonia, which represents 25% of our gross domestic product. No one, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, should renounce their ideals, because no one was condemned for their ideals, but for breaking the law. In our democracy and in our democratic Constitution all ideas, including independenceists, are included. I repeat, there are all democratic ideas in Spain, as the Constitutional Court has stated on many occasions. This is an obvious truth and I have no problem repeating it as many times as necessary. The nine convicted persons violated, first of all, the law from which their authority emanates, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in particular article 223, which lays down the conditions for its reform. Spain, ladies and gentlemen - I have said it many times - is one of the twenty-three full democracies in the world, according to the prestigious democracy index developed by The Economist in 2020. Like all democracies, ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectable, and we will certainly not give up on improving laws, transparency, democratic participation and anything else that is necessary. But in this index Spain has an assessment of 9.58 in the section of political pluralism, a 9.58 out of 10. That is, it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, to say that someone has been persecuted for his ideas in Spanish democracy. I have given here the reasons why the Government has granted pardons. These reasons may or may not be shared within the legitimate democratic game. I understand well - I have also said this in repeated public statements - I understand well those citizens who have repairs and who oppose the measure of grace. I understand in particular that part of Catalan society that it felt attacked by its own Catalan government in 2017 and that it is not sure that this situation will not happen again in the future. To all of them, to all of them, I would like to say that the Government will continue to act at all times with the utmost firmness to defend the coexistence that is materialized in respect of the laws, the status of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no referendum on self-determination unless those who defend it are able to convince the three-fifths of this House to amend Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution and subsequently the Spanish and Spanish ratify this change by referendum. I tell you that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, of which I am honoured to be its Secretary General, will never accept such derivatives. [[Prolonged applause]] The principle of realism must be imposed, ladies and gentlemen. The Government has an obligation to take measures to restore normality to social and political life in Catalonia, by encouraging agreement and dialogue between the various actors, and that is what we are doing, that is what we are doing. The time of punishment passed; the time of forgiveness, of reparation, of overcoming, and also the time of the only possible option for all and for all, which is the agreement, came. My Government also believes that it is essential, on the other hand - as I told the President of Generalitat de Catalunya yesterday - that Catalonia should speak with Catalonia. One cannot maintain a situation in which half of Catalans do not count, they are invisible to his own Government. Our democratic conviction is deep; we all need for the agreement, we want to count on everyone, we want to count on everyone in the phase of agreement that opens up after the pandemic and for the management, the impulse and the modernization of our economy both in Catalonia and in Spain thanks to European funds. Don't be fooled, the dialogue between Catalans is essential in order to be able to start over. If we all repeat what we have already done, we will end up again in the place from which we have come, and no one wants to go back there; neither Catalonia deserves it, nor Spain deserves it. That is why we are embarking on a new stage of respect, feeling and affection, of territorial cohesion for the agreement. These days we have seen, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a good part of Catalan society and a good part of Spanish society that are willing to participate in this reunion. We have seen how trade unions, business organizations, the Catholic Church, not a few intellectuals and academics have supported the granting of pardons even though they are aware that they alone will not serve to overcome the conflict. They have hope - I also say this in the first person of the plural - that we hope that this first step taken by the Spanish Government will be followed by other steps that will bring us even closer. The Government, as has already been shown, will do everything for it. Yesterday I was able to meet with President Aragonès, we convened the dialogue table between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat for the month of September, we have a public reunion agenda that you all know about, on which we want to work, on which we want to move, and also a common project, if you will allow me, exciting, which is the organization of the Olympic Winter Games in 2030. This is a candidacy supported by the Government of Spain, by the Government of Catalonia, also that of Aragon, whose study we have already begun with the aim of officially presenting our pre-candidacy to the International Olympic Committee In the coming dates, before the Tokyo Olympic Games. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I suppose that you, despite disqualifying a constitutional instrument - as you have done over the past three years with the motion of censure, as a spurious and illegitimate tool to get to the government - but taking into account all that you have said these weeks and your destructive opposition over the past three years, the only logical and thorough attitude that remains is the presentation of a motion of censure, offering yourself as an alternative, testing what your arguments are, what your weighty support is, what is the origin of those support. Their policy of discrediting, of sowing suspicions, of breaking consensus in Spain could lead them to this first path of rupture. To us - believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group - what we would like to see is that they will join in a second path, which is that of hope, that they were a European opposition, a state opposition, as I have asked you many times, because this challenge we will overcome more quickly if we count on the People's Parliamentary Group, but in the end, that is their choice, unique and exclusively theirs. The Government cannot do more to join the union. You continue to have, Your Honor, Mr. Casado, my hand extended as President of the Government to renew the constitutional bodies and strengthen the institutions and make Spain better. [[Applauds]] Anyway, let's face it, it's not entirely up to me. However, if they decide to move forward on the first path, take its results, allow the Government to rule and the institutions to function. End this blockade on the constitutional organs for the sake of Spanish democracy. Let Spain go better. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very explicit. It will conclude this point with a summary. One, the judicial process ended with the final judgment of the Supreme Court, which is not in question, and the Government never called it into question. Two, various individuals and institutions made a request for grace which the Government had to resolve in one direction or another and which we have resolved from an affirmative point of view. Thirdly, after weighing the reasons for and against the measure of grace, the Government has considered that there are reasons for public utility which advises granting these pardons and, consequently, we have taken this decision for the benefit of Catalans and Catalans. [[Applauds]] We believe that this is the best decision for Catalonia, that it is the best decision for Spain and that it is the most consistent with the spirit of agreement of our Constitution which I invoke at the beginning of my intervention. Catalan society, despite the discrepancies that it may have as a whole, I believe it wants a European Catalonia, prosperous, pluralist, solidarity and self-government. That's what we're gonna get. Catalonia without Spain, in my opinion, would neither be European nor prosperous nor plural, and Spain without Catalonia would simply not be Spain. This double certainty is the north that guides our way as a government. There is a long way to go, ladies and gentlemen, hope is once again opening up to the whole of Spain, also in particular in Catalonia, so what we have to do is to give a definitive opportunity to dialogue. I think it's worth it, ladies and gentlemen, we live together, we live together, we decide what we want to be Spain together, under the only possible option, which is the agreement. The pardons directly affect nine people, but they are mainly aimed at the whole of society: all Spaniards, and in particular all Catalans. Especially to them, to many Catalans who feel solidarity with those who were imprisoned, and also to many others who did not support their actions, but believing that they had already fulfilled enough punishment and were asking us for this measure of grace. All of them, ladies and gentlemen, what they want is to look forward. All of them want to repair and overcome a past evil, of which no one can be proud, and build a better future, a common future between Catalans and the whole of Spanish society. The Spanish Government has acted according to the mandate of Spanish society and also of the Constitution: working for understanding and not for confrontation, working for unity and not for division. And it has done so, moreover, from the highest democratic strength - and I would like to underline this, from the highest democratic strength - knowing precisely that the ability to forgive, to pass through, to repair, to look to the future is what distinguishes a strong democracy, a firm and resilient system from a weak system. [[Applauds]] Democracy protects itself with generosity as much as with the force of the law, as with forgiveness and its capacity to forgive. Ladies and gentlemen, with this decision - I honestly believe - we are opening a new stage in Spanish policy and Catalan policy. It has to be a clear stage of dialogue and understanding; a stage in which we know how to build bridges of agreement between people who are far away from politics, but who share the same desires for prosperity, for progress, for cohesion, for the protection of those who are weaker. We live together and are therefore obliged to meet again. Spain knows well that time does not heal the wounds alone, it takes political audacity and a few hands willing to work to take care of the pain. This is what those men and women did who, finding out from almost all the forecasts, were able in 1978 to reach transcendental agreements for coexistence. And I think they did well, as I told them at the beginning of my speech. We have the challenge of doing better. I am convinced-and will come out here in the rostrum throughout the morning of the debate - that we will find many difficulties, because there are people who do not want the agreement, who do not want the understanding, who subscribes precisely to discord because they consider that to be a political project. Well, I respect that, it's legitimate. As a result, I am convinced that we will find many difficulties, but I assure you that no more than those found were those who in 1978 managed to reach this transcendental agreement, which is the Spanish Constitution. If it was possible then, it can be possible now. I would like to appeal here to all parties present in this House to be able to regain the constituent spirit of our democratic Constitution. Let's focus on solutions, look for meeting points because we have a great future ahead of us. We are living in a complex, difficult time, overcoming the pandemic is obviously the greatest reflection of what I am saying, but it is also an exciting time, of great changes, of great transformations. We need to work together to address the global challenges that have to do with the digital transition, the ecological transition, the ageing of the population. United in Catalonia, united in Spain and united in Europe will be the only formula to be able to deal effectively and equitably with these great challenges. There is a great project that we share, and it is to that great country project that they want to contribute with these pardons. Let us do it for Spanish society as a whole, for Catalan society, but above all and above all, ladies and gentlemen, let us do it for the younger ones, for the generations to come. Let us leave them an inheritance of harmony, prosperity, and not discord. [[Applauds]] Let us leave to our young people, who are suffering with greater and particular intensity this pandemic, an advanced and modern country in which everyone can claim their identity or their identities - feelsecatalan, Basque, Spanish, European, Madrid, Andalusian, Canary Islands, or whatever they want - and at the same time share the same homeland: the homeland of law, the homeland of citizenship, the homeland of equal rights and freedoms, the homeland of opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to work for this, it is time for politics, and the government will do politics. [[Applauds]] And this project for Spain that I have just talked about requires the best of us, and also that we concentrate all our efforts on taking advantage of the opportunities that this new time offers us. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a time of illusion and hope that requires the union of all and political heights. On 16 June, as you know, the President of the European Commission visited our country, on the same day that, by the way, the European Commission approved in an outstanding way the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan presented by the Government of Spain, which I have already had the opportunity to present to you in this House. It was a historic day, not only for Spain but also for Europe. The Plan of Spain - together with that of Portugal holding the pro tempore Presidency of the European Union - was the first to be approved and, no doubt, its approval opens the door to a new way of understanding the European Union and cooperating together. Let me remind you that the July European Council last year lasted several days and demanded from everyone an extraordinary effort of integration to approve the European funds, an agreement of the main political families and the new Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027, and I also congratulate the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for having finally managed to materialise the CAP, which is so important for many territories of our country. [[Applauds]] We faced in July last year - and we continue to do so today - the worst health, economic and social emergency of the last century due to a pandemic, the COVID. A global pandemic that required a global European response, commensurate with the challenge and only comparable to the dimension of what the Marshall Plan meant in the 1950s. The effort that has been made to draw up a plan that is rigorous and that is up to the titanic challenge that Spanish society has, I believe has been fulfilled. This is a plan designed to transform Spain, following the lines outlined by the European Commission, agreed by the Council, together with the priorities of this Government, which I have already been able to point out here in my investiture speech: the digitisation of the economy; the ecological transition; the training of our young people, as well as the people who are currently unemployed, in order to improve their employability; social and territorial cohesion to meet the demographic challenge; and gender equality so fundamental, especially in these pandemic times because women together with young people are the main victims of this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic if it has done something - I have been told many times - has been accelerating these transitions. From these bases, Spain presented the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan on 30 April, with all the documentation required by the regulation establishing the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Then, it was the College of Commissioners of the Commission which approved on 16 June the positive assessment of the recovery plan, obtaining the maximum rating in all criteria except one. The Commission also approved the proposal for a Council Implementing Decision, which includes the milestones and objectives that Spain is going to have to meet, as well as the different stages of the financial contribution that the European Union is going to make available to our country. The Council, in its formation on economic and financial affairs, known as Ecofin, is expected to approve the Commission's assessment by adopting the Implementing Decision on 13 July next. That is to say, Spain has been the first country whose plan has been approved, together with Portugal, and that, in my opinion, deserves - even from the deepest discrepancy - recognition of the work well done. [[Applauds]] I would therefore like to use this forum to thank the work done by the entire Council of Ministers and Ministers in drawing up, adapting and negotiating this plan. It is a plan that means that over the next three years, for the period 2021-2023, EUR 70 billion in direct transfers for investments, which can be completed in a second phase with another EUR 70 billion in loans; a plan that contains - I think it is very important to stress this again - 110 investments, but above all and above all, 100 structural reforms based on the diagnosis shared by Spanish experts, international bodies and economic and social actors, also by your lords in the Reconstruction Committee that we had the opportunity to develop with you last summer. I believe that this is the greatest reformist and modernizing effort of our economy - also institutional - over the past thirty-five years. Furthermore, as you know, an accelerated disbursement schedule has been approved for the next three years. Only this year do we expect to receive around EUR 19 billion. In this way the plan will have a countercyclical effect, which is what we are looking for, to help economic recovery and intense job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, every day we recover positions, every day our forecasts improve, every day our expectations grow again. I believe that we can already hear how the engines of economic recovery are heating up in each and every one of our country's territories; an unprecedented recovery, as has also been the precedent of the blow that our economy and our society have suffered as a result of the greatest calamity in a century that has been this pandemic. We have - in my opinion, in the view of the Government - the best map to guide Spain's social and economic challenges, which we have ahead. A map that will substantially increase our country's growth potential. We want - as I have told you on many occasions - a modern country, a country that leads from a social, territorial and intergenerational point of view the great transformations that our country has; a Spain that is in line with the demands of its workers, of its autonomous, of its small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of its entrepreneurs in general. That is why I insist so much on the reformist nature of this plan, which incorporates in its backbone the most important advances in the modernization of the Spanish economic and social structure. Ladies and gentlemen, I am prudent, but I am also optimistic. I am cautious and optimistic because all the indicators we have today bear hope. We have a vaccination strategy that is working with an honor registration effectiveness. We have been the first country in Europe to have 100 percent of people over 80 years of age vaccinated, with a full pattern and more than 74% of our over 50 years of age are already fully protected from COVID. In addition, the eighth update of the VOCID Vaccination Strategy, which includes the following age groups to be vaccinated, has been approved: group 11, persons between 30 and 39 years of age; group 12, between 20 and 29 years of age; and group 13, between 12 and 19 years of age. Since the beginning of the year, no fewer than 40.5 million doses have been administered, 89.6% of those delivered. We have achieved a vaccination rate of more than three and a half million doses per week, with a daily record of more than 733,000 doses administered. We already have 17 million people with the full vaccination schedule and 52.7% of the population have received at least one dose. On the other hand, as you know, the extraordinary Council of Ministers last Thursday approved that the mask should not be compulsory in outdoor spaces from Saturday 26 June. These days we can see for the first time for a long time the landscape of our towns and cities with what we dreamed of: people walking and walking without masks. However, the real success - I insist - will come when the entire Spanish population is fully protected. At the current rate, the government's objectives are as follows: firstly, I announce that we expect that by the week of 19 July Spain will reach the 25 million vaccinated with a full schedule, and by the end of August, as we committed ourselves, we will get 70% of the population, that is, 33 million people, immunized. [[applause]] As President of the Government to whom I have to thank, first of all, it is our health professionals. I must also thank the citizens, who have mostly accepted the need for vaccination and have behaved with discipline, generosity and also with enormous responsibility. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I must thank the health officials of each and every one of the autonomous communities of any political sign and so many professionals of broad disciplines. Spain is an extraordinary country that must continue to pay tribute to all its professionals and must never forget all the victims of the disease. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I would like to tell you that on 15 July we will again pay tribute to each and every one of the victims, to professionals who have fought and continue to fight in front of the COVID-19 and will be, as a year ago, with his Majesty the King of Spain at the Royal Palace. Thanks to all of them and the autonomous communities, to their coordination - congratulations, Minister of Health - these months it has been possible to develop this exemplary vaccination campaign, in which Spain has shown that it can be at the highest level. During the month of June, we were reminded by the Minister of Inclusion and Social Security that we have been the country that has vaccinated the highest percentage of people. If anyone needed any proof that our autonomic system works, here you can find it. I also want to pay tribute to the educational community, not only that which educates our children, but also logically to the older ones within the young people who are in our university classrooms because it is a great pride to see how 99.5% of the classrooms in our country have remained open during this academic year. [[Applauds]] This vaccination campaign allows us not only to save lives, but to lay the groundwork for an economic recovery and a rapid exit from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many economic indicators that announce - if nothing unexpected happens - the recovery of Spain and that it will be powerful. The government, as you know, forecasts GDP growth for this year of 6.9% and 7% by 2022. Therefore, next year we will recover the pre-pandemic GDP level, in less than three years, despite the intensity of the crisis, and in clear contrast to the 2008 crisis that took us almost a decade. The European Commission, in its spring forecast, expects Spain to lead the economic growth of the European Union in both 2021 and 2022. This data has also been corroborated by the Banco de España in its last quarterly report, where, in addition to the upward revision of economic growth for this year and next, it expects GDP to expand by 2.2% in this quarter, reaching up to 2.7% in the most optimistic scenario. The creation of employment in May is accelerating during this month of June, in which we hope to have some 230,000 new members and members of Social Security. At the moment, there are in total more than 19.5 million workers affiliated with Social Security, which not only exceeds the level we had prior to the pandemic, but are figures that are in the environment of the historical membership peaks reached in 2019. Obviously, this acceleration also affects workers in ERTE. Since February, the peak of the third wave, as you know, up to this month, 520,000 people have returned to their jobs, so there are only about 450,000 workers left of the more than three and a half million who came to ERTE at the peak of the pandemic last year. In addition, 30 per cent of these 450,000 workers continue to work part-time. This growth in employment is being more intense in some of the sectors most affected by the pandemic and mobility restrictions, such as tourism or hospitality. As a result, the advanced indicators of activity suggest that the private sector is expanding at the highest pace in the past 15 years. This shows that there is a clear and right course, which requires us to walk together and in the same direction. One demonstration that we can be united in the great challenges and transformations ahead is the agreement we have reached in the social dialogue to reform the pension system. On the basis of the proposals agreed in the Toledo Pact, we are taking a very important step towards ensuring the sustainability and protection of our pensions over the coming decades. I will not tire of repeating that the desire of the Spaniards, think as they think, live where they live, is unanimous: to overcome in the shortest possible time all the consequences of this pandemic. Optimism and hope are also perceived in the streets of our country, in the family plans of the Spanish and in the projects of all kinds that are being resumed. Why am I saying this? Because I believe that conveying optimism and injecting confidence in economic and social recovery from the public authorities, from politics, at the moment it is essential, is essential, in order to activate decisions of consumption, investment or contracting, which in turn will serve to strengthen and accelerate the recovery. It is, therefore, our responsibility to help and not to put mill wheels in order for Spain to go better, which is what the vast majority of citizens want. What does Spanish society want, ladies and gentlemen? Better to go, to go ahead, to have quality jobs, to have opportunities for young people to develop their life project. He wants to feel that we do real politics, that we provide solutions that bring relief in families and tranquillity to workers and entrepreneurs. He wants to perceive security and begin to see a horizon of hope and certainty. He wants Spain to get better. And that, ladies and gentlemen, also has to do with the spirit of the Constitution, with the need to reach agreements among all, with the pact as an instrument of coexistence. In addition, in the last week of July we will hold a Conference of Presidents in Salamanca, in order to dialogue with the autonomous presidents on a number of matters of immediate interest to all: the development of the vaccination plan, the deployment of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and action measures to address the demographic challenge. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a very brief account of the two European Councils held on 24 and 25 May and 24 and 25 June. The first part had two parts: the first, the working dinner on 24 May, which was focused on external relations, and the second, on 25 May, whose debate was focused on COVID-19 and the climate emergency. With regard to international relations, we had the opportunity to review the hottest issues of today such as Belarus. We approached the crisis with Belarus, caused by the forced landing of a passenger plane on Sunday, May 23. Obviously, we call for the immediate release and free mobility of detainees, journalists and their partners. On Russia, we take advantage of dinner to reflect on the European Union's relationship with Russia. It was, ladies and gentlemen, a strategic debate in which we all speak frankly, and we all value as positive and very important contributions the contributions made by the High Representative and the European Commission in their report presented in June, which I will discuss later. With regard to the Middle East, we also take advantage of this first meeting to celebrate the ceasefire that had been agreed on 21 May, just before the start of the European Council. On the United Kingdom, we also discussed the relationship with this country. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, since 2016, Brexit has been one of the priority issues of the European Union. The United Kingdom took a sovereign decision and the rest of the countries accepted that decision. In 2020, after several years of negotiations, the European Union and the United Kingdom signed a withdrawal agreement for the exit of the United Kingdom from the Union and, at the end of 2021, we concluded an agreement for the future relationship. Both the Withdrawal Agreement and the Future Relationship Agreement were freely ratified by both parties and are therefore binding legal texts. They are the two documents that form the basis of our relations. Since 2016, the European Union has demonstrated a commendable unity of action and negotiation and, at this European Council in May, we reaffirm this unity, against those who seek to question again what is clear and recently agreed. On migration and Ceuta, on the proposal of the Italian Prime Minister, Mario Draghi, and myself, we raised the issue of migration to the European Council. I took this opportunity to explain to the other European colleagues what happened the previous week in the autonomous and Spanish city of Ceuta. Firstly, I wanted to thank the unanimous support that Spain received on Tuesday 18 May from the European institutions: the President of the European Council, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the Commission and several Commissioners publicly supported Spain and defended the territorial integrity of our country, which was called into question. Because when we talk about Ceuta and Melilla, we are talking not only about the Spanish borders, but about the European borders. As you know, since September last year, a new proposal for the Migration and Asylum Pact is being negotiated in the European Union. This is a complex negotiation, but one that we from Spain attach the utmost importance to, because we know that the solution is more efficient if it is at European level. That is why I have used this Council to reaffirm the constructive will of Spain and to point out that the management of relations with the other side of the Mediterranean and of migratory flows must be a joint undertaking of the whole of the European Union. On the second day of the European Council in May we talk about COVID-19 and climate change. With regard to the pandemic, we already welcome the agreement reached between the European Parliament and the Council on the digital green certificate. In our country there are more than two million people who have downloaded this digital green certificate and its final entry into force will come on 1 July, that is to say tomorrow. Spain is already participating in the trial period since 7 June, as announced in Fatur. This certificate, approved in record time, will be key to facilitating international mobility in a secure and orderly manner, thus recovering one of the fundamental rights of every European citizen: the free movement of people throughout the Union. This is going to be very important for a sector that accounts for 12% of our GDP as is the tourism sector. The Government has worked tirelessly in Europe to create the conditions for its definitive revival, that of the tourism sector, which is closely linked to the mobility of people. The digital green certificate will be a key tool for our tourism sector to regain its economic vigor. At the May European Council we also addressed the external dimension of the fight against COVID-19. In this regard, I would like to say that we have agreed that the European Union and its Member States should give at least 100 million doses before the end of the year to those countries that need it most. [[Applauds]] That is why we have announced the donation of 22.5 million doses, including 7.5 million doses for our Ibero-American brother countries. Unlike the European Union, where we are managing to control the pandemic, the number of cases in Ibero America remains at extremely high levels. Likewise, as you know, the Spanish Government has advocated not only the liberalisation of patents but also the transfer of technology and knowledge, speeding up the distribution of vaccines, as well as increasing production capacities for vaccines to reach the whole of humanity. This proactive position which the Spanish Government has defended, ladies and gentlemen, is due to a threefold motivation: moral, political and epidemiological. Moral, because solidarity must be a fundamental principle of our foreign policy. Political, because if the Union does not assume its role of international leadership, other actors will fill that gap. And epidemiologically, because if we don't get everyone to have access to the vaccine, we can't afford to get through this crisis. Finally, the May European Council closed with a climate debate. As you will recall, a historic agreement was reached at the December 2020 European Council: to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. This is a very ambitious horizon that has been followed by other countries and has therefore re-validated the European Union's leading position in adapting and mitigating to climate change. At this European Council in May, the aim was to hold a first debate on how to translate this objective into legislation and thus guide the work of the European Commission, which will present its proposals this July. At the May European Council, I again showed Spain's unwavering commitment - and I believe that of the Spanish society as a whole - to the green transition, stressing that it is important to maintain ambition and direction. With regard to the debate on the guidelines and the future legislative package, I argued that this package must be fair, equitable, solidarity and ambitious, so that efforts are properly shared among all Member States and put the citizen at the centre of this process. Following the European Council in May, on 24 and 25 June we met again at a new ordinary European Council. Prior to the Council itself, European leaders held a lunch with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. In my address to the Secretary-General of the United Nations - who will visit Spain over the next week, the visit begins tomorrow precisely - I have claimed the initiative that we are leading two countries, Spain and Sweden, together with other countries from other continents to promote strengthened multilateralism. The European Council then again addressed the fight against COVID-19. After that, several Heads of State and Government wanted to highlight the European defence of LGBT rights, whose international day was held before yesterday, 28 June. On this occasion, the matter was not merely declaratory, as it is known that in some Member States of the Union - and in particular Hungary - those rights are being threatened by his Government. At that day's dinner we discussed the European Union's external relations again, with particular emphasis on Russia and Turkey, and then we talked about economic recovery, and the Euro Summit was held. Then, even if it's synthetically, I'm going to talk about these issues. On the fight against the COVID-19 we focus on three ideas: vaccination, recovery of mobility and solidarity. In all these aspects, our country has been very active during these months. We have led, as you know, some initiatives within the European Union. With regard to vaccination, the message in general, ladies and gentlemen, was positive on the part of all leaders. In Europe, also in Spain, we all logically move towards that common goal of 70% group immunity before the end of the summer. That is why the recovery of mobility is perfectly possible, especially thanks to the digital green certificate that I have just referred to. In Spain, as I said before, we have already issued more than two million certificates, which I believe is an extraordinary news for our economy in view of the summer tourist season, but I also wanted to make it clear at the Council meeting against the unjustified backwardness of this mobility, and as regards the politicization of this issue which is so essential not only for the economy, but also for the very essence of our values. We spoke again of the solidarity side, and - as I have told you before - of the 22.5 million-dose donation to the Covax Mechanism, which is a multilateral mechanism for the donation of doses of vaccines. Spain has increased its contribution with an extra contribution of 50 million euros for the Alliance for GAVI Vaccination. The Council also recalled the importance of the International Treaty of Pandemics, and within the World Health Organization there will be an extraordinary assembly next November, and many European countries - also Spain - want to lead this debate. On migration, the Union is aware that we have to work together to address this issue; neither has there been much progress in this debate, which was prompted by the Italian Prime Minister and myself. On LGBTI rights and external relations, although it was not on the agenda, we had a sincere debate on LGBTI rights in the European Council. In the context of the international day of the rights of this collective, the Heads of State and Government of 17 European countries - on the initiative of Spain and also Luxembourg - we subscribe a letter to show the highest level of support to the LGBTI community and to defend their fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] All European citizens must be guaranteed their right to the free development of their personality, our obligation therefore is to celebrate, embrace the diversity that enriches our societies, to ensure that our children grow up in an environment of equality, respect, tolerance, and so we remind Prime Minister Orbán a vast majority of the leaders present at dinner. Homophobia and transphobia, ladies and gentlemen, do not belong in Europe. The meeting on 24 July concluded with a dinner focused on the Union's external relations. We talked about Russia again, we talked about Turkey again, and we obviously also talked about Lebanon and Jordan. And we are also talking about strategic support with resources amounting to €57 billion for the period 2021-2024 in relation to the care of Syrian refugees in Turkey and also in other countries in the area, as important for Spain as Lebanon or also Jordan. On economic recovery, the second session focused on these issues. We are now beginning - as I said at the beginning of my speech - a crucial stage aimed at relaunching our economies; to resume the path of growth that has to be fair, that has to be inclusive, that bets on the green and digital transformations of our societies. We took stock of the situation with the own resources decision already ratified, which allows the Union to start issuing debt on the markets and with the national recovery plans under way. From my point of view, I took this opportunity to encourage the Council not to delay the final approval of recovery plans so that they can begin to be implemented quickly and thus consolidate an economic recovery which must be balanced from a territorial point of view also throughout the Union. On the euro summit, which took place on the 25th, the discussions revolved around the banking union again. The debate was not conclusive, unfortunately again work will continue on this in the second half of the year. You know what the position of the Government of Spain is. We want to move forward with greater speed towards the completion of the banking union, in particular with the European Deposit Insurance Scheme, which are clearly fundamental to ensuring financial stability and also the competitiveness of our banking sector and our single market. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there were important points of discussion, but above all I believe that it will be recalled in my opinion by the strong reaction of many governments in many Member States to the threat of LGBTI rights in Hungary, which demonstrates the importance we attach to the values of tolerance, non-discrimination, integration and coexistence in Europe. Europe is not only a single market for trade between operators of goods and goods, but above all an area of rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention. I am very sorry for the extension in this speech, but I would like to finish where I started, speaking of the constitutional spirit. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the political situation in Catalonia and Spain as a whole, the economic recovery, the progress of Europe, the great challenges before us demand great agreements from all of us; they demand a will for dialogue, respect for all political positions, always logically within democratic legality. If we are not able to recover that spirit, it will equal the individual right that each of us has separately, because what Spain needs now is for us to act together, to put everyone's commitment and talent at the service of a common project, of a shared project. I have often defended, ladies and gentlemen, the real policy, which is full of content, which is created and implemented in order to build and advance, and I will continue to defend itself, the policy that adds up, not the one that remains, the one that unites and not the one that divides. Spanish democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has proved to be strong through the use of democratic legality and justice, but it is even stronger with the other instruments of politics, which are the reasons, the values, the dialogue, and all this allows us to move forward and progress together. [[Applauds]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that after this pandemic it is time to recover the policy, the time is now and the opportunity is now, and of course the Spanish Government will contribute precisely to that: to make policy for the benefit of coexistence between all Spanish and Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, it hurts Spain, like millions of citizens outraged by its destructive drift to remain in power at the expense of national unity and the equality of all Spaniards. This should be the state-of-the-nation debate that has been blocking for three years, although we already know that it does not interest you to have resolutions in which you have to portray your partners. Therefore, after his bonanist homily, I ask him to explain why he promised never to give political pardons, saying that he felt ashamed, and asked forgiveness for others of the PSOE that pissed him off. Tell us why it solemnizes, in front of millions of spectators in the electoral debate, that it will never agree with independenceists and outraged to tell us that: false is false, never is, and never is. Why did he say that obeying the judgment of 1 October meant his full compliance, that he would sit on the bench at Puigdemont and sentence the illegal referendum in prison? Either you're a liar or you think the Spaniards are fools, or both. [[Applauds]] For any of them to resign a decent politician, following his own standards of demand. And you expect us to believe you now when you say there's not going to be an illegal referendum? No, Your Honor. Now for you the law is punishment, the rule of law is revenge and the Constitution is revenge. For you to strike the state is concord, to liquidate equality is coexistence and to break national unity is a reunion - with criminals, I imagine -. For you to betray justice is your new path. It will be to perdition. He says we have to move on, but what he does is pull it out of article 2 of the Constitution. He talks about a second transition, but he throws at half of Spain and acts like a Trojan horse of those who want to destroy it. He speaks of broad consensus, but he has only one hundred and twenty seats, the most mediocre result of a government president in history, completed by all the radical alignment of this Parliament. He talks about forging a new country, which is what Azaña said in 1932 to approve the Statute of Esquerra, but in 1937 he realized his mistake and denounced his disloyalty, when it was too late. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of historical memory, the Civil War was a confrontation between those who wanted democracy without law and those who wanted the law without democracy, and our Constitution is the pact by which there can be no democracy without law or law without democracy, exactly what European countries learned from fascism and communism when they founded the European Union. The Spaniards have already spoken, we have met again, we have already made it possible to live together and to agree; we must not do it again, we must only keep it. You don't get asked too much. Mr. Sánchez, tell us, what is it that now he was playing punishment and now I'm sorry? Is your person now a judge, too? Haven't you read the Supreme Court report? For he says that pardons are unacceptable in the face of a democratic attitude and that they pulverize coexistence, that there is not the slightest proof of repentance or of grounds for justice, equity or public utility, but a clear intention to recidivise. It seems that his party has gone from staining its robes with the dust of the road to bouncing them in mud. Meanwhile, his very honorable partners came out of jail threatening Spain. Cuixart thought she was defeated, Junqueras saw her weak thanks to you, and Aragonès planted himself yesterday in Moncloa saying that he was involved in independence, amnesty and the end of repression. It will be the one they exercise against the constitutionalists. You should know, now that you have become, that forgiveness requires consideration of conscience, repentance and purpose for amendment. Or if you prefer to stay in the secular dogmas, remember Tomásy Valiente, who slashed the pardons for when they are asked, repent and abide by the Constitution. None of that has been done by your colleagues in the yellow tie. Get out of the Stockholm syndrome, which makes you applaud when the independenceists give the head of state a wake because they agree to sit with him the very magnanimous. I mean, just like the kidnapper depends on the survival of the kidnapper, you separatists need them to stay in the Falcon. It's been very clear to us. The evil is that they have already announced the ransom they demand: impunity to continue delinquent in the attack on the nation, but I gave up all hope. We're not gonna let him. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, Julián Marías said that we must not try to please those who do not want to be content. Their self-indulgence legitimizes a continuing crime, a historical error that resolves nothing but their survival in power for a few more months. That is, it saves a personal problem at the cost of turning it into a state problem. How brave! That's so bold. With the pardons nothing ends, but everything begins. You have given the first pardons of history, not for repentance, but with threat of recidivism - small agenda of the reunion -, you have turned the right of grace into a coup of grace to the rule of law, and everything for a plate of lentils, and you have brought Spain to a break-up table in order to be able to summer another year in Doñana - we are too expensive - but you have gotten into a minefield from which you will not get out free. The payment of these pardons will be his finite as president and the epitaph of the constitutional PSOE. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Pedro Sánchez negotiates sovereignty and hacienda with defenders of terrorists, criminals and thugs, who continue to call us beasts mad at the Spaniards. In addition to giving them pardons, he claims to pay for their embezzlement and corruption by assaulting the Court of Auditors, as he has already done with the Office of the Prosecutor, the Council of State, the CNMV, the CNMC and he intended to do with the General Council of the Judiciary. You have no limits. Moreover, it is ostensibly threatening to make it known that they are willing to break all the rules, including the constitutional procedure of choice, as registered yesterday by their partners. That's sending a horse head to every counselor's bed. [[Rumors]] Quite a deal, Mr. Sanchez. Where will you be going so that the rule of law is a stone in your way? The stones you speak of form the wall of freedom in front of criminals, form the path of concord that the Spaniards have been travelling together for forty years, and from which you want to push us away. You've become a broken Midas king, who degenerates everything he touches. There is no institution within its reach that does not corrupt, and those that are far away from it, such as the Council of Europe, pollutes them by interposed Latvian. He has deserted the promise that gave him access to the post, and there is something worse than deserting by conviction, which is deserting by interest. Mr Sánchez, we are not faced with the sum of miscalculations of all or a reality that we do not want any, but that we have done among all, as you said in High School. Humiliate as much as your dignity allows you, but don't try to humiliate others by making us guilty of nothing. Neither the Catalans nor the rest of the Spanish are responsible for acts that have received a prison sentence. The responsibility and the wrong calculations were only theirs, and from now on they enjoy the complicity of you, who has decided to take your side and deprive the Spaniards of your justice and your law. You can pour a mimibar cataract into each sentence, but that's not going to hide that guilt has its own names. Being an internationalist does not give you the right to violate the law, even when you are interested in it. If these pardons are legal, why is he trying to say that the law cannot be an obstacle to politics? And what kind of policy do you plan to do if you find an obstacle in the law? Don't forget that when democracy has been confronted with the law, the most terrible regimes in history have emerged, because the act of voting, like medicines, heals coexistence when it occurs as prescribed, but it can cause severe damage when it does not meet that requirement. Mr Sánchez, you have not decided to deal with the problem or to seek agreement, as you have also said here today. It does not fix the problem that secessionism poses for Spain, but it fixes the problems of the secessionists, and it does so in the hope that they will fix you the problem that is most urgent, which is to give continuity to the most sterile legislature that is remembered. The radicality that we have suffered has created it for you to achieve at the extreme the support that you do not achieve at the center. From the dusts of the Tinell come the muds of Lledoners. You have granted a pardon, but you have reasoned an amnesty, already complying with the infamous statement of Pedralbes. It is driving a regime change with a constitutional mutation through the back door, destroying the foundations of our coexistence system and disarming the State. That's why he wants the illegal status back! To invalidate the Supreme in Catalonia, to illegalize the referendums, in addition to reducing the crime of sedition - which, by the way, approved the PSOE in 1995 - to amputate the effectiveness of the rulings of the Constitutional Court and even make us pay for the embezzlement of Waterloo. It seeks to eliminate all traces of crime and its criminal, economic, political and social consequences, and to provoke Spain's international contempt for its purpose. He prefers to change the system to continue governing rather than being opposed to the system we all gave ourselves in 1978. With his hand, beating has ceased to be a crime to become a good business. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, independence has resumed your journey nowhere with you as a co-pilot. It is not true, as I have said here, that the Constitution endorses this measure, but quite the contrary. Ours is not a militant democracy. Almost any idea can be defended on the condition that it is done with respect for laws, procedures and institutions, but if these procedures are not respected, the idea is that they must not be respected, and then democracy must be defended, because ours is not a suicide democracy. We are not talking about an idea, we are talking about crimes committed, tried, condemned, and the will to commit them again. Depriving those who disagree of their fundamental rights is not something that can be defended by democratic means, because the democratic path does not reach the station of totalitarianism. In other words, democracy does not admit the idea of its own destruction, but you have offered that, instead of breaking Spain, they alone dissolve it with you. This is what brings great progress: dissolution instead of fracture, but we say no to the nationalist fracture and we say no to the socialist dissolution of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is not a venerable memory, but is our law of laws and, therefore, our freedom, that of today, that of now, and our coexistence and our agreement, that of today, that of now. Its partners seek the destruction of democracy in Catalonia, which is their real goal. Breaking Spain is only instrumental in achieving that, because as long as Catalonia is Spanish they won't be able to. Catalonia is free because it is Spanish, and they know it; they want it to stop being Spanish so that it stops being free. But you have put on the street those who have been convicted of making us foreigners in our own country. He frees them, courtesies them, defends them and even begs forgiveness, encourages the insult to our rule of law, inside and outside Spain, and does so because they have demanded it as a rite of humiliation and to remind him who is in charge. You are the straw man of the nationalists, you reason and express yourself as one more nationalist, but you have not had time to teach him the lighter as soon as they have gone out on the street. Learn at once that Catalonia is of all Spanish and Spain is of all Catalans. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the granting of pardons traps implies the Government's abandonment to the Catalan constitutionalists who, on October 8, 2017, went out to the streets to ask for law and order, and to the Spaniards that five days earlier we were thrilled with our king, and to Spain from the balconies that demanded respect and coexistence. Independence had been defeated since the application of article 155, because they knew that the State was willing to defend itself with all its means, but Sánchez had revived it to agree on its survival with them, as Zapatero revived the Batasuns to agree with them. You only dialogue with the disloyals, with the heirs of the killers of 850 innocents, including 14 socialists, with defenders of banana dictatorships and with separatists. Do you imagine Macron making a pact with the defenders of the Bataclan terrorists? Or Kennedy talking to the segregators instead of sending federal troops to Mississippi in 1962? No, no, But the table you took back yesterday is an insult to Spain. Amnesty lies only behind dictatorships, and self-determination is allowed only in colonized territories, according to the United Nations. For you Spain is a dictatorship and Catalonia is a colony? He has preferred to leave most of the Catalans silent in the stake to put the gasoline boys in his engine room, because he wants some to shake the tree to pick up the nuts, as always, again. But everyone has already seen you as a matrioska who hid the independenceists and battalions inside, and there is no longer Paul Churches to blame you, the radical is you. [[Applauds]] That is why it defends openly the plurinationality; Iceta the confederation, its delegate of the government the Catalan republic and the PSC the right to decide; but to decide what and who, the separation of Catalonia from Spain, Barcelona from Catalonia or Badalona from Barcelona? And who is so Catalan as to decide for all the Spaniards?, the one who was born in Catalonia or also his father, his grandfather and his son?, the one who pays taxes there?, the one who is registered there? Sanchism has devoured constitutional socialism as Saturn, and old PSOE no longer has scrapes. It has crossed the Rubicon; it has cast its lot in the hands of those who want to destroy Spain, and it has burned the ships when it reaches the edge of independence, and on top it intends to discredit those affected. Mr Sánchez, for you that a mentally ill person mails a knife is the return of fascism, but that the Civil Guard concludes that a CDR with operational capacity is seeking information to attack members of the People's Party, including me, is an exaggeration. And the most serious thing is that when this information came out in the middle of the November 2019 election campaign, and the entrepreneurs included in this report were escorted, my chief of staff called yours to ask if there was a PP politician on the list, and he completely denied it. It turns out they were too busy digging up dead dictators half a century ago to deal with terrorists who want to attack now. Apparently, from the admissible democratic syrup we have passed to the tolerable termite agent, only if it is against the PP, of course. That is why I announce that we have resorted to the Supreme Court to grant these pardons, as a political party representing millions of Spaniards affected in their sovereignty with this democratic outrage, and thousands of Catalans who have seen their heritage, freedom, security and coexistence in school, work or public services attacked. That's enough! [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, tell us, how high do you have of your person to dynamite four decades of concord and progress? It is believed to be more important than Spain, but it is not; it will not pass from a foot in democratic history, from an unfortunate parenthesis that lasted little. You have preferred to live on your knees before independence than to stand up for the Constitution, and with this decision you become part of the problem and one of the heads of the sovereignist agenda. Today he has said here a truth - for a change -: you can't start from scratch, but yes again. That is so; because of their fault they will re-declarate independence, and the State will have to re-defend itself firmly, but this time we will do so without their marked letters, guaranteeing the closure of illegal structures and public neutrality for as long as it takes. In that gallimacy that has been mounted on conditionality or the revocation of pardons, I tell you that when we govern, all the penalties imposed by our independent justice will be fulfilled. By the way, I don't know what the thousands of defendants will think for their participation in the process to those who don't pardon; also for that is elitist their caviar left, it only benefits the chiefs with votes to stay in power. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with Spain is not that it lacks freedom, but that it is negotiated with those who attack freedoms. What we need is not for Spain to become a full democracy, because it is, we need some of its partners to become democrats, because they are not. One cannot reward a minority who violates the rules and employs public institutions to deprive the rest of them of their rights. The answer cannot be to offer a Spain to the liking of those who want to undo it. Mr. Sánchez, you're still in dark high-society salon maneuvers; we're still with real Spain, with the middle and working classes, who want to own their destiny outside the client yoke of the BOE and the funds spread to their finger. [[rumors]] You are handing over Spain to the nationalists, and we want to put it back in the hands of the Spanish; you are with the privilege, we are with equality; you are going for yours, we are with everyone; you create second-rate Spaniards, we will make a first-rate Spain possible. [[Applauds]] Madam President, I'm done. This year marks a century of the invertebrate Spain of Ortega, where it regretted the national disarticulation for the government's inaction against the nationalists. If history is not to be repeated, Spain must wake up, and it is already doing so. We must reaffirm the constitutionalist project in Catalonia, which is that of all Spain and of all Europe, so that Catalan society can regain freedom and overcome nationalist oppression. We must defend all the rights of all Spaniards, starting with those who live in Catalonia. We'll beat the thugs when they understand we'll never get tired of defending the law. It is they who must lose hope, not us, and if they do it again we will defeat them again. There is no more effective plan than it is: to strengthen our determination and end your delirium, the opposite of what you do. As soon as we reach the Government, we will put in place a plan to strengthen the State, establishing the illegal referendum, the improper rebellion without violence, prohibiting pardons for crimes against the Constitution, and creating the specific crime of disobedience in the Constitutional Court's resolutions. In addition, we will end with educational indoctrination, media propaganda and separatist external action, and guarantee the freedom to choose a language in education, administration and public space. In parallel, we will recover the prosperity and quality of services and infrastructure, with the investments and funding that are needed to improve the lives of citizens, not nationalist administrations, which have already wasted EUR 1 billion in the process with the result of 7,000 companies transferred and half a million unemployed. Mr Sánchez, Spain is generous, but not naive; it is tolerant, but not weak; it is magnanimous, but not cowardly. Magnanimity is offered by the winner and you have granted defeat. They gave him a choice between dishonor and conflict. He chose dishonor and will have the conflict. You saw him at the prison door and in his office yesterday. You are president of Spain thanks to all who want to destroy it, and that's all it is, you can't fall any lower. For us, no Spaniard is worth more than another, born where he is born, lives where he lives and has what he has. We all have the same dignity, the same rights and one vote each. Therefore, if you want to change what is of all Spaniards, you will have to let all Spaniards think.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u5	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u6	Dismisses, dissolves Parliament and calls for elections. [[Rumors]] Only then can he perhaps pardon the story. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u8	One of the pardoned: The pardon is a triumph because it demonstrates the weaknesses of the State. [[Mr.Abascal Conde shows a cover of ABC showing the picture of Oriol Junqueras and reads: Junqueras: 'Forgiving is a triumph because it demonstrates the weaknesses of the state']] Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Not to the pardons, you promised; here are the pardons. There will be no referendum on self-determination, he tells us today. It seems a very clear threat that there will be a referendum on self-determination, Mr Sánchez, because you and the truth have been incompatible for a long time. [[Applauds]] Whatever you say in this rostrum, Mr Sánchez, your word is worthless and you see that we regret it because you are the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, the only relevant conclusion of the European Council is that you paint there less than the separatists, who paint even less than by chasing down the corridors to the President of the United States, as we could see in that ridiculous thing you gave us a few weeks ago. On 21 October we tabled and defended a motion of censure. We explained in it more than a dozen very serious reasons that demanded his departure from the Moncloa, as Mr Casado asked him today, and we then asked the rest of the groups for their support, with the sole aim of returning to the Spaniards the word and the vote that you had stolen from them with lies during the elections. And 298 of you voted against, a vote against which was an oxygen balloon for those responsible, during this epidemic, for the death of more than 100,000 of our compatriots and was a lifesaver for those responsible for the economic, social and institutional ruin of Spain. [[Applauds]] In addition, with that vote against, almost all of you also gave Mr. Sánchez a golden time that allowed him to pardon, amnesty in a covert way, all those who attacked our homeland in 2017. Mr Sánchez left in October without paying the bill, but neither in October nor today nor tomorrow, Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards will forget their willingness to betray the most sacred for scratching another day in power. That's of public use to you, whether you're the one at the Palace of Moncloa, that's the only public use that matters to you, that's the only thing behind your decision. [[Applauds]] Because you, Mr. Sánchez, will pass into history as someone who betrayed the Spaniards, as someone who betrayed Spain and its Constitution and as someone who betrayed the king. Because you come here and speak in the name of harmony, coexistence, the spirit of the Constitution - which you must know - or dialogue, but all you really care about is sleeping one more night at the Palace of Moncloa. How well you lie, how bold, how insistent, how professional, Mr. Sánchez! As sweet as their subsidized flatterers may be, the pardons are an act of political corruption and a stab in the back, first of all, to the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who suffered the separatist coup. Secondly, to the millions of honest Spaniards, many of them socialist voters who every day comply with the law, even if they do not like it. Thirdly, that handful of brave judges who maintained the constitutional order. And, last but not least, the king, who embodies the unity and permanence of Spain. [[Applauds]] To be more ashamed, we are faced with pardons not requested by the pardoned, without a request for forgiveness from the Spanish people, without an amendment. Moreover, with the declared, explicit will in the media to re-offend. And, moreover, against the harsh warnings of the Supreme Court, unequivocal, Mr Sánchez. But you don't care about any of that and you've proved it. He has never cared even about his fellow travellers, even though they were the political heirs of those who murdered almost a thousand compatriots, including some socialist leaders, because you have never cared about the Spaniards. It's very sad to say, but you're the only one who cares, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] We care about the Spaniards and that is why we have appealed these pardons to the Supreme Court, and not just because we represent almost 4 million Spaniards, but because we were the political party that pushed the criminal action that ended with the coups in the bench and the convicted coups. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the sinister bench, share with separatists and philotetras a project of destruction of national sovereignty, one can no longer say otherwise, and these pardons, which we have already appealed to the Supreme Court, are just one more step. Thanks to you and your Council of Ministers, separatism has gained a new impetus to continue threatening and oppressing Catalans. Thanks to you and your Council of Ministers, separatism has received a rootboard to deepen the already very deep social rupture of Catalonia. Thanks to you and your Council of Ministers, separatism will continue to steal the money of all Catalans to continue to pay their sham. And we will suffer again what we already suffered in 2017, we will suffer again the coup d'état. The Catalans and the whole nation will suffer again, but with a difference: in 2017 they were allowed to move forward in the fallen arms of the government; on this occasion it is even worse, it is the president of the government who facilitates it and who ends up encouraging them to do so. [[Applauds]] Because with the pardon, Mr Sánchez, an illegitimate government that came to lie to the Spaniards has legitimized violence, legitimized rupture and corruption, and, worse, has not hesitated to put on the king's table a role that touches on its last consequences, in an act of revenge, against what the king incarnates, which is the unity and permanence of Spain. How dare you speak of the spirit of the Constitution? The spirit of the Constitution is its foundation, which is an indissoluble and indivisible Spain, and everything else is your invention, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] He has corruptly amnestyed the corrupt, and he tells us it's because of concord. You prostitute words with a naturalness that is typical of a charlatan, words that in your mouth mean exactly the opposite of what they mean. You have actually come to sow ruin and discord among the Spaniards. Therefore, your corrupt friends have already said on the front pages of the newspapers that they will do it again, and we too have a very clear message for their partners: we too will do it again. We will once again be the shield of the Spaniards in the face of every new entrapment of separatism, we will once again defend our people, we will once again defend the Catalans and the whole of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We will once again defend coexistence, we will once again strengthen the ties that unite us and that you are destroying, we will rebuild the institutions and, of course, we will again fight and defeat the thugs if it is necessary to sit back on the bench. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, as you say, it seems, but Catalonia is not of the separatists. In Catalonia millions of Spaniards live who love their country girl and their country big and who suffer with their misfortunes. To say that there is a conflict between Catalonia and Spain is to pervert the reality and face the crimes that have been committed from an ideological fanaticism that is not even wrong for you. Catalonia is not of the separatists, the senyera is not of the separatists, the Catalan language is not of the separatists, the Parliament of Catalonia is not of the separatists. That Spanish region belongs to all Spanish without distinction. The separatists do not want or defend Catalonia, they only protect a court that, with their collaboration and that of the governments that have preceded it for many decades, has served to make them millionaires at the cost of dividing the Catalans, at the cost of facing the families, at the cost of facing and impoverishing the workers and at the cost of stealing all at once and, moreover, with impunity. [[Applauds]] With his agreement with the separatists, he neither wins Catalonia nor wins the Catalans nor wins the accord, wins impunity and the state weakens. The only ones that have been strengthened are those who have been burdened with coexistence and prosperity in Catalonia. With your agreement you win the violent; with your agreement you win the extremists who exert violence against most Catalans; those who attack, for example, the acts of VOX in the face of the complicit silence, if not the spirit, of all of you. But what can we expect from those who have chosen Bildu as a travel companion and from those who have compulsively lied to the Spaniards and, in particular, to the socialist voters? Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we have seen during these two years how political and economic favors are negotiated in favour of those parties that betray the Spanish every day, while these - the Spaniards from very different regions -, always loyal, always compliant with the law, see how investments, public spending, development plans in their regions can always wait in favour of the separatists. Faced with this situation you say that we have no alternative, the one that does not propose an alternative is you, that all you do is test what has been tested during all these decades: the assignment, the assignment and the assignment in front of the separatists. Only VOX proposes an alternative in the opposite direction, the one that has not been tested throughout all democracy, which is the rule of law, the illegalization of separatist parties, the closure of TV3, the Catalan embassies that are sowing discord against Spain, the end of linguistic apartheid in Catalonia - and to be possible also throughout Spain, in Galicia, Mr. Casado - and the suspension of autonomy until the complete restoration of the constitutional order. [[applause]] There's no other way. But, in any case, it is the only one that has not been tested, Mr Sánchez; the only one that has not been tested during these years of Constitution and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, pardons are another shame in a shameful record of this government. A government that deserved to be censored last October and that today deserves it a hundred times more. In October we said, to the scandal of all of you, that the government of Pedro Sánchez, for many different reasons, was the worst in eighty years of history. And we are short, we are very short; there have never been so many and so many different reasons to censor a government. We are in the hands of an executive, not only unscrupulous, but also a drifting executive, with no more project than to denationalize Spain if that is what it takes for Narciso Sánchez to remain a little more in power. [[Applauds]] A government that walks from scandal to scandal; they are so many, so serious and in so many areas that it should be censored every week. Mr Sánchez campaigned denying his agreement with the separatists and granting pardons. Before the elections on November 10, he was very dignified on television and said he was going to bring Puigdemont back to Spain. For what? To pardon? To amnesty like the rest of the criminals, right? You repeat as a mantra on the sides of the sinister that you are the representatives of the working class, but the only thing you represent is the busiest and most selfish separatism; you only defend those interests because you are the ones who need to stay in power. And no, the popular classes, or whatever you want to call them, are not in favour of pardons; the popular classes defend the unity of Spain, decent employment, low taxes, street safety and quality jobs and social services. [[rumors]] You do not represent them, you only represent the new Catalan nobility, a caste that has lived from privileges throughout Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] Because while we are being told about concord and resilience - what words - the price of electricity rises, fuel goes up in the clouds and they intend to impose tolls on Spanish highways in order to harm once again the most disadvantaged. For Resilience the one the Spaniards have with you. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, take responsibility and submit a motion of censure against this Government. Mr Sánchez - he has already seen it and has said it here today - is believed that you do not dare, Mr Married, because you are sure - he believes - that you cannot put him in trouble. We believe that the Spanish must be given back their voice in the ballot box. If you submit a motion of censure we will support you, without reproach. Don't say not so fast, don't rush. They say they don't give the numbers. Have you checked? Have you talked to the rest of the parties? Do you not think that many Members who in their day supported this government or voted against the motion of censure could not once again explain in their constituencies the support for the government of pardons to the coupsmen? Do you think that in Teruel, in Cantabria or in the Canary Islands you could explain this? I know it can take time, we know it's not easy and that's why we think, Mr. Married, that you have to start today. [[A Member of Parliament: Elections!]] This House - you all know it, and that is why it has just called for elections and we have been asking for a long time - no longer represents the feeling of the Spaniards, because this government is based on the lie to the Spaniards and it is your responsibility, Mr Casado, at least, to try to get the necessary support, it takes you as long as it takes. Even you have said in the rostrum that Sánchez does not want a debate about the state of the nation because he does not want to portray himself again with all his partners. At least the motion of censure would serve that purpose again, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] We're not rushing him, we're just giving him our support. We don't put a deadline on it. Do not let Mrs Gamarra run away and say that the time limit should be set for them when we have expressly said that we do not put any time limit on them. In the last year and a half, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has crossed all possible lines in a constitutional democracy, by agreeing with Podemos and placing totalitarian communists as vice-presidents of the Government and illegal and inconstitutionally in the National Intelligence Centre; by firing political spending with ministries of equality or consumption to place friends in positions of power; by hiding the mysterious visit of the number two of Maduro and his meeting with the Minister of Fomento; by placing the most radical and sectarian ex-ministry, Mrs Dolores Delgado, as a new state prosecutor to pursue the opposition; by lying about the epidemic, by hiding the mysterious number of deaths and even by disadvising the use of the mask when they were unable to buy a sufficient stock; by closing the businesses and preventing the work of the Spaniards without indemnifying them; by declaring a state of illegal alarm and corruption, by trampling on our fundamental rights and by closing the people in their homes with a mechanism that did not allow the third party to address the territory of the territory of the country, and on the basis of the territory, and on which the basis of the territory, You, Mr. Sánchez, trample on the law and the Constitution. He's getting the thugs out of jail against the judgment of the judges. The question is, when are you going to dare put opponents in jail? He probably already fantasizes about it, especially when he hears us speak in the rostrum, because hearing you speak of the spirit of the Constitution turned into an euphemism of his totalitarian desire is something that is already scary. Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards will never forget your betrayal, the betrayal of all of you, you can be sure of that. Nor that of the Socialist Party, that of all those leaders who have not raised their voices in the face of their outrages. And I am not concerned about the destruction of the Socialist Party that you are achieving, subjecting yourself to all sorts of humiliations from the most extremists on the blue bench; I am outraged that you have abandoned the honest socialists, that you will probably never be able to vote for VOX and that you believed that you were voting for a party that would at least defend the unity of Spain and the most disadvantaged people. [[Applauds]] From VOX we will call on all Spaniards, of any origin or condition, to vote what they have voted for, who already know that it is time to start the great task of rebuilding all that you have destroyed during these two years the evil government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u9	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u10	President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of sexist offenses, I would like to begin by expressing our solidarity with Minister Irene Montero. Mr. Married, in the reply you will have an opportunity to amend your words, and more on a day like today, an important day, because yesterday was approved the preliminary draft of the trans law, of the LGTBI law, which will make us a freer country. Thank you, therefore, also to those who have made it possible, among them Irene Montero. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Married, you talking about meritocracy is the best joke we've heard these days. If you are looking for cases of nepotism, look first at your home, at the Court of Auditors, with dozens of relatives you have fingered, like Aznar's brother. It is not just any place for the Court of Auditors because, unlike the ordinary courts of justice, where there are judges - although sometimes they act as politicians - here there are politicians who act as judges. I remember a president, Ubaldo Nieto, who even appeared in the papers of Barcenas. Imagine what anomaly, who had to monitor the accounts of the parties - the People's Party too - appears as one of the donors of Box B; normally they won't find a euro of the corruption of the People's Party. That is why I wanted to express our solidarity with those who are being persecuted by that court of politicians and also to announce that we will request an investigation into the proceedings of that court. I would also like to express solidarity with those who are still facing judicial cases arising from the Catalan political conflict. We are opening a new stage, but we still have a way to go in the area of judicialisation. May pardons not prevent us from seeing that reality. Mr President, we share the diagnosis you have drawn in your speech, in the assessment of the Council of Europe's European Plan. Let me make two requests, one in relation to the pandemic and the other in relation to the trans law precisely. I believe that we have placed ourselves at the forefront of the international arena on equal footing with the adoption of that preliminary draft law, and that means that we have to exercise that leadership. It is very well, as you reminded us, that Orbán will be reminded of his obligations the other day, but I think we need to take one more step, we need to call on the European Commission to impose sanctions on VOX's partners in Hungary. The second request is precisely about the suspension of patents on vaccines. The music that comes from Europe sounds very good, but now we have to put it into practice. I believe that we have been a reference, as you have said, in the vaccination process, and that means that we have to lead that battle too, not necessarily by following the US. Now that I'm talking about the pandemic, I wanted to remember that one of the learnings has been precisely the importance of the public, the importance of caring for each other, of empathy, and the pardons also go from that. That's why I want to start by contrasting two photographs: the photo of October 1st with the photo of the prisoners leaving prison. The first photograph is the photograph of the failure of the project of 'a for them'; the second is the starting point of the parliamentary dialogue that allows us to begin to face one of the great challenges we have since 2010, when the right and his judicial arm buried the territorial pact of the Transition. That has to do with Catalonia, no doubt, but it also has to do with other things, such as, for example, the fact that this Congress is the most plural in the history of Spanish parliamentarianism. Therefore, point one: when we talk about pardon we don't talk about divestitures, we talk about the first step to found that new territorial agreement. Point two: there are those who believe, on one side and on the other, that pardons are a sign of weakness. Mr. Married said it again today. A sign of weakness is revenge, it's the answer with cocks and jail on the right. Dialogue, politics, pardons are a sign of strength, of democratic strength. Point three: The conflict in Catalonia comes from afar and goes on for a long time, but this step and the next meeting of the dialogue table opens a new stage of hope. I want to thank those from different positions who have bet so that that could be possible, have built bridges during this time, people like Miquel Iceta, like Pablo Iglesias or like Gabriel Rufián. Thanks also to those who, despite suffering an unjust prison, have pushed in the same direction. Thanks to Josep Rull, Jordi Turull, Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Jordi Sànchez, Jordi Cuxart, Joaquim Forn, Carme Forcadell and Dolors Bassa, because they have not been defeated by the hatred or rage that is breathed today on the bench of the right. [[Applauds]] And thank you, finally, President. Mr President, in the investiture speech I asked him to be brave, as was President Zapatero when he barely invested agreed to the return of the troops from Iraq. You know that we have been critical in the past with you because in our opinion, for example, this new stage could have started earlier. Today, however, it is a day to highlight his courage and the sense of state he is demonstrating by fulfilling that democratic commitment, a commitment that, by the way, we were carrying out on the electoral agenda. I'm saying that because Mr. Married is talking about this as a payment to the Independenceists. No, look, that's not on your road map, that was on our road map, on our election program. This is an agreement between us and the Socialist Party, which is clear to you. In any case, it is a step, Mr President, I do not doubt it, necessary to return to politics, to overcome the loop in which we were immersed and to face the challenges we face in economic, social and environmental matters. That means not forgetting that when the progressive forces agree Spain advances in democracy, in justice, in law, we have seen it with the minimum vital income, we have seen it with the ERTE, we have seen it with the right to die dignifiedly and with so many other rights that we are winning in this legislature. And when that usually happens in front of us, unfortunately, we find ourselves a crumpled right, of nationalist pride, which appeals to that of humiliated, kneeling Spain, always with such testosterone slinging of the abominated right chest. We can't be afraid or hesitant about it. They told him traitor, but they also told Zapatero when he started the dialogue with ETA that put an end to terrorism, and they also praised Suárez for legalizing the Communist Party that reaffirmed our democracy. Therefore, we cannot forget that there is no alternative. When the right governs or accumulates power things twist. That has always been so historically, since the Restoration, going through the Primo de Rivera dictatorship, the Franco dictatorship or the legislatures of Aznar and Rajoy. To the right it has always been difficult for him to understand the plurinational reality of Spain. His narrow and predominantly authoritarian vision has meant that from Donoso Cortés we often left half the country, those 26 million who spoke of the ex-military who had to be shot and who was throwing VOX. In this conflict - and I think we will agree on that diagnosis - things were twisted in Mr Rajoy's legislature and when the People's Party installed small tables against Catalonia throughout Spain. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your appearance today. Never before had a President of the Government appeared before the public and then before this House to explain some pardons. That gives greater legitimacy to the path taken. At your high school conference you spoke of exploring new avenues in the resolution of the territorial conflict, for what always - so happened in the Second Republic and in the Transition - Catalonia has been a key piece. It seems to me that what you said, which went quite unnoticed, is also the Gordian knot of this debate. We cannot solve the conflict by returning to failed scripts that have brought us here. The autonomous state, as we know it, is exhausted, as is the centralist and extractive model located in Madrid de Ayuso. There is no return to the past, but we have a long way to go and, in our view, Mr President, three milestones must be taken: the first, that further progress must be made in the process of judicialization with the reform or abolition of the sedition crime; the second, the recognition of Spain's plurinationality; and the third, that this is resolved at the polls in Catalonia, where it was twisted at the time in 2010. Those are, in our view, the minimum consensus with which we should go to the dialogue table; a dialogue table, by the way, where we have to be able to talk about everything, also about self-determination and amnesty. And that's where we disagree, we think they fit into the Constitution. Tomás y Valiente, president of the Constitutional Court, has been mentioned; the vice president of that Constitutional Court was Rubio Llorente and so defended him. And on amnesty, as the Constitutional Court has already said, is in our system; in fact, the political system was born of an amnesty. We may or may not agree with that figure, but that it is perfectly legal we have no doubt. In any case, the road will not be easy. As Minister Ábalos said, the road is rocky. For us on that path it will be essential to understand that politics is not a picture of Goya, it is not the duel of clubs and flags drawn by the People's Party. They tell us that you've made a Buddhist homily, but they make a sound of war drums. Politics without empathy is not politics, it is revenge, it is cruelty, it is something else. And in politics it is important to be humble, benevolence, extend your hand, leave pride aside, ask forgiveness and forgive. That's what politics is about, and that's what we've learned from our feminist compañeras. I wanted to address Mr. Married in second place. Mr. Married, let me read you a few words, to see if you know who you are from: 'The Government asks us in the name of peace and we come as one man to fulfill this duty, leaving aside doctrinal points of view. Amnesty is necessary to pacify the spirits and a consequence of the country's electoral will.' Do you know who they are? I don't think so. They are not of any independentist, they are the words of the spokesman of the right Philonazi of the CEDA in 1936. In 1936 a decree-law of amnesty was unanimously passed by this House for the events of the October Revolution of 1934, which took place in the legislature in which the right wing ruled. When he ruled the left he defended himself for Azaña - whom you have quoted today - amnesty. And what did the right do? Well, he was loyal to the government. Therefore, Mr Casado, let me tell you that today you are being more disloyal to the Government than you were later involved in the coup d'état against the Republic. You said before that amnesties only fit after dictatorships. In 1936 there was no dictatorship; I do not understand the mental framework on the right, which tells us that the dictatorship's governments were better than democratic governments. There have been amnesties in European democracies and there have been amnesties in ours, so let us not confuse the debate. In addition, unlike this occasion, then there was a military uprising, there were thousands of deaths and had been convicted of rebellion. Here we are talking about pardons, not amnesty, and we are talking about a peaceful movement; and, despite that, you are disloyal. I say that because you have missed an opportunity today to present yourself as a leader with a vocation to be president of the government and you have buried the Casado Stadista that we heard on Catalan radio not so much saying that on October 1 you did not like it and that you wanted to be part of the solution and not of the problem. Well, Mr Casado, today you are part of the problem, because you, who have spoken of Stockholm syndrome, suffer from Stockholm syndrome with the extreme right. He has cast himself into the mountain with her, into the most rancid and reactionary mountain, alone, without god or king. And it is that we have also seen in these days an unusual print: the right putting the king in tightness and attacking the Church and the patron, passing through the right to the Church. If even the bishops are already suspicious! You have drawn a line between the good Spaniards and the bad Spaniards and we know what happens when that happens. When the right-wing believe that the nation is in danger, the witch hunt begins, the Spain of the hammer of heretics in front of those who call on the devil: those who defend the pardon. He tells us about the Dracula pact with independence. Lately I see him fond of images of the living dead; before he talked about Frankenstein, now Dracula. I think the only one who committed a political suicide here was you going back to Columbus Square to photograph yourself with the extreme right, which was then scratching him. But if you tell us about the Dracula pact with criminals, the attack on democracy, the betrayal of Spain, it seems to me a disgrace. Betrayal to Spain is that you are in Europe trying not to get the funds and asking for cuts for Spain. And they're talking about an attack on democracy. Do you know what an attack on democracy is? To see Cospedal sitting on the bench yesterday accused, fattening that list of more than three hundred accused and convicted of corruption of his party; a party with a headquarters built with black money; a party that has been qualified by the courts and the police as a criminal organization; a party that, when it is in the Government, uses the institutions, State structures and the cloacas to pursue its political opponents and try to ensure impunity for their corruption crimes and that, when it loses power, tries to kidnap the institutions, as they are doing with the General Council of the Judiciary, and break big consensus such as that of the victims of terrorism or the anti-transfuguism pact. That is betrayal of Spain, that is an attack on democracy. [[Applauds]] And today above you come to give us lessons of democracy about pardons; you, who have granted pardons to those who have been convicted of abhorrent crimes of harassment, sexual assault, torture, crimes where there has been kidnapping or death; you, who applauded the 23F pardons; you, who pardoned the state terrorism of the LAGs with twenty-three murders behind their backs, or those convicted of terrorism by Terra Lliure. If we saw him babbling the other day when he was asked about Terra Lliure! Mr. Married, how dare you come here today to talk to us about pardons and democracy? You are the champions of pardons and have been gifting yours, the corrupt judges and politicians for years. With the Rajoy government one out of four pardons was for corruption; one out of four, ladies and gentlemen. You are not only the most corrupt party in Europe, you are also the most pardoned corruption in Europe: 277 in total. Whether you come today to teach us lessons about who should be pardoned or not, it is as if Bárcenas gave us lessons of good government or as if Aznar, Iraq's strategist, gave us lessons of pacifism. It is a shame, a great exercise of memorylessness, cynicism and hypocrisy. [[Applauds]] But the worst, Mr. Married, is not that; the worst is that you, the right hand, have come here today to lie again about the subject of pardons. I do not have time to explain all the lies you have said today and these days, but there are two kinds of lies: legal lies and political lies. I will point out to you two of the political lies you have said. You have said today and other days - you and the far right -: The pardons are a robbery to the sovereignty of the Spanish people. False. Do you know what a robbery to the sovereignty of the Spanish people is? To think that this one resides in the Plaza de Colon and not in this Chamber. In fact, you said the other day: Employers and trade unions do not represent anything, it is represented by Members. Secondly, we agree, but not in the first part because they represent trade unions, more than two million members - imagine, there were not even 1% of the members of the trade unions in Columbus Square - but we agree that this is the will of the Spanish people represented by this House. That is why you not only oppose the government, but also oppose this House, which has repeatedly said yes to dialogue, yes to pardons and not to the photo of Columbus, which, rather than a photo, is the stamp of a country project, a country between Genoa and Columbus, between corruption and the Madrid of the elites. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u11	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u12	Thank you very much, President. There was a very right-wing politician - very, very right-wing - in this country who wanted to be Caesar without knowing he was Brutus, a certain Albert Rivera. I'm sure that sounds like it. Well, I start today by remembering one of your big hits, which sure sounds like it, and sure enough some and some of them understand me a little bit better: 'Do you hear it? It's silence.' [[Pause]] Great hit. I remember it because I think today is much more true than when he said it, because that is precisely what happens, what is happening today to the misfortune of the right: nothing. Nothing is happening, the silence, the silence of the people and the silence of the street. This government has, yes, pardoned nine unjust and savagely imprisoned politicians and politicians for three years, and nothing has happened here. People are burning nothing down the street and, above all, there is no crack in the middle of Columbus breaking Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the right - of the right - the worst that can happen to someone in politics is happening to them, that their speech clashes with reality. But what is the reality? The reality today is that, after a year and a half of a pandemic and in the face of what seems to be the end of the greatest health crisis of our time, there is only one concern that really shares the vast majority of people, the vast majority of governments and, above all, the vast majority of economies: instability, uncertainty and, ultimately, doubt. Neither their manifestations nor their exaggerations nor, above all, their symbols as stones. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of VOX and Citizens, they already sound like a mobile phone in a theater: annoying, untimely and unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the people of this country care much more where they need to be vaccinated than where they need to speak to you. Here's your misfortune. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you live in a house that is constantly on fire? Ladies and gentlemen, how can an economy be developed, how can a country be managed and, ultimately, how can a life be planned in a permanent context of unrest and conflict? It's what you want, it's what you're looking for. No doubt the empty cart is the one that makes the most noise. People are sick of it, people are sick of it so that to the right - to every right - people have to go wrong. Two unsuspecting examples for them to understand: the U.S. Republican Party and the CEOE; unsuspecting. You know what they share? Do you know what the U.S. Republican Party and the CEOe share? Well, the former are supporting an unprecedented Biden infrastructure plan for a billion euros – a billion! – while Trump shouts and tweets, and the latter are supporting a government with a communist minister; yes, yes, the communist minister. And this is because Biden and Garamendi are traitors? No, no, it's because they know perfectly well how the world works that they themselves have created, and, above all, because they know that with a guy with horns in the Capitol with nine people unjustly in prison you can't do business, you can't manage, you can't rule. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, you have been crushing for years - and you continue to do so - on the left - on all the lefts of this country - with what you wanted to turn Spain into Venezuela, when you want to turn your country, Spain, into something else, specifically in Hungary, into a country governed by neoliberals, xenophobics and racists. You want to turn this country into that. The good news is that at the moment they only get it once a year, in Columbus; the bad news is that time to time. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, the problem with this country is not that the right wants to dismantle independence or the left. The problem with this country is that the right wing wants to dismantle the rule of law directly! That's what's going on. While in Europe it is the right that stops the ultra-right, here, in Spain and as an anomaly, the right pacts and imitates the ultra-right. That's how patriots are. In fact, the moderate right in Spain does not exist. Well, yeah, it's the PSOE barons, and that, even if it doesn't seem like it, is good news. [[applause]] Pardons. The right side of the Chamber cries out against the pardons for the unity of Spain. The left side of the Chamber celebrates the pardons for the unity of Spain. Curious. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, please be clear and put on fire: pardons are not a measure to resolve the political conflict, pardons are a measure to improve the political climate. It's not minor, it's good. Yes, because precisely this good political climate is what makes us remain in the centrality of the playground, where we play, and not at the extremes where there is mud; everyone knows that where there is mud we play much worse, people seem much worse. But is this insufficient? Yeah, too, a lot. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you will not be a real left-wing government as long as there is only one person in this country persecuted, threatened, beaten or imprisoned for peaceful demonstration, and that is happening in this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, ideas are being pursued in this country, in Spain. In this country, in Spain, there is repression. Do you doubt that? Would you squeal on them? You want an example? Come on, let's go. Imagine a state institution that can prosecute, investigate or sentence hundreds of thousands of fines and even millions of euros to any - I repeat, any - public office. Well, no, sorry, anyone, no, the Army and the Royal House - what a coincidence! - they can't, but the others can. [[Applauds]] Imagine, imagine that there is this institution, which is not judicial power, which can fine any public office - calm - by face without supervision or court order. [[rumors]] Now imagine that this institution has been governed by the majority for more than twenty years by seven PP positions; some of them, for example, Margarita Mariscal de Gante, ex-ministrate of José María Aznar; for example, Ramón Álvarez de Miranda, ex- congressman of UCD - yes, of UCD - or people like Manuel Aznar, yes, brother of José María Aznar. [[rumors]] And now imagine that this institution exists in this country and that this institution is called the Court of Auditors - not the Court of Auditors, but the Court of Auditors - and that this institution, I repeat, without any judicial ruling, already carries more than 15 million euros in fines to almost forty Catalan independence charges. An institution that had not imposed a single fine in forty years on parties convicted of illegal financing; an institution that, for example, absolved from paying absolutely nothing to Ana Botella after selling 5,000 floors of public housing to vulture funds. Do you know the difference between Ana Botella and Oriol Junqueras? That the second does not have his brother-in-law working in the Court of Auditors, of course. [[Several Members: What a barbarity!-Rumors.-Applause]] I will make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the Court of Auditors is the anti-democratic and allusionary chiringuite that the forty reactionary and vengeful families that have been sending in this country for the past eighty years to condemn the most absolute civilian death to independent public offices have been assembled. And, as we have always told you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish left, the following are you; the following are you. Either we stop it or they directly pass us over; so far we are that repression against ideas does not exist in this country. Therefore, today we say more clearly than ever that if our ideas are to be our condemnation, independence will be our amnesty. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, never be afraid to be brave in politics. The PP, the right, does not go up in the polls because of its merits; it goes up because Citizens do not exist and they eat them. They're lentils, the blocks have exactly the same numbers. How many people went to Columbus? How many signatures have these people collected? [[Mrs. Beltrán Villalba: What do you know?- Rumors]] If I don't know, it'll be for something. Very few. Do you know why the right is not credible in this subject of pardons? Because they fight each other to see who's wilder, they fight even with the CEO, and that's good news. Mr President, you said that there will never be a referendum on self-determination. The truth is, he also said there would never be pardons. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] So give me time. He also said that it would be good to create a forum between Catalans that brings together all the sensibilities, that it would be good to create a forum between Catalans that brings together all the sensibilities. It already exists, it's called the Parliament of Catalonia. Suárez legalized the PCE. What did they call him? Traitor. Zapatero spoke and ended with ETA. What did they call him? Traitor. You, Mr President, have pardoned the Catalan political prisoners. And what did they call him? Traitor. The history of the right in this country, of all the right in all the countries, has been forged to the cry of traitor always, but the left, all the left, have been forged through forgiveness. The question is who forgives who, that's the question. Who forgives who? Who one day gathered in a Council of Ministers to make a political decision or who gathered in the yard of a prison for three years to make a political decision? Who should forgive who? But there are more questions, Mr. President. Is it politics or are they math? You guys before could not do politics and do math. In fact, it had a name: variable geometry. In short, it was the push for pacting with Citizens, because it comes out cheaper, because they are more flags for everyone and that's it. Everyone knows that that impulse did not happen to them in a day, but that some eliminated it after much effort. Citizens are today in the most absolute political inopia and it is justice at this point to remember someone who understood it as much as we did when almost no one wanted to understand it. He was not the only doer of the current political scene, but he is one of them, so at this point he is just and I want to remember Paul Churches. [[Applauds]] The only truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that today the stability of the Government, the survival of the Government, depends on the different lefts with different flags that we gather each week; and, believe me, that is very good, because, ladies and gentlemen, there are those who want to be independent from Spain, yes, but there are also those who want to possess Spain, and I would say that these are the dangerous ones. State reason must always find political ways to fit into a rule of law and into that state and into Europe no one doubts that there is a political conflict with Catalonia. By the way, this is the cover of El Mundo Sunday and, apart from the umpteenth interview with Arrimadas to see if they are resurrecting Citizens, there is a curious headline: the judges of the Supreme Court admit - literally - that their sentence against the independence politicians is dead in Europe. [[shows a photograph of a cover of El Mundo]] Why do you think this is so? Why are the judges in Strasbourg 'indepes'? Why are they from Esquerra? Why are you watching TV3? Or because they're judges and they're not lackeys according to whom? It is called prevarication - prevarication - and is recognized on newspaper covers. No one doubts anymore that nothing is in exchange for nothing in politics. I repeat, no one doubts that nothing - that nothing, that nothing - is in exchange for nothing in politics, and no one doubts who bet for a real world and who bet for a virtual world By the way - to whom it suits - or the pardons are a defeat and humiliation of a part of independence or the pardons are the consequence of a policy made here and in Europe. [[pointing to the bench of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Applauds]] But be clear, dealers of patriotic notebooks, because everything can't be. I just found something curious. Lately there are those who are very upset that incarcerated independence prisoners continue to be independenceists on the street once released. What things! They have not been political prisoners, but it is a shame that they continue with their political ideas; it annoys them that they continue to believe in the same thing. We have bad news: Sorry, because it will continue to be so. Not everyone is like Toni Singed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u13	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u14	Thank you, President. On several occasions, he has repeated that we are entering a new stage, which is time for agreement and dialogue. I had to change everything I intended to say to you, Mr Sánchez, because I really thought that today you would propose to us the solution to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, which is not the conflict between Catalans. Let Catalonia talk to Catalonia, let there be dialogue between Catalans, you say. I will speak to you very clearly - compañero Rufián has also said -: Catalonia already speaks to Catalonia and does so in the Parliament of Catalonia, where all sensitivities are represented. The problem is that in the Parliament of Catalonia one cannot speak freely, because the Spanish state punishes and persecutes those who want to discuss what the citizens of Catalonia vote for. He says that all ideas belong in Spain, but forget to defend them, because, ladies and gentlemen, here remains the status quo: you know what will happen if you defend those ideas that are not mine. Is that your dialogue, Mr. Sánchez, teaching speeches of reconciliation and agreement with one hand and allowing theft and repression with the other? The beneficiaries of pardons are not required to change their ideas. They were not imprisoned for their ideas, he says, but at the same time in the reports you have made of each of the political prisoners conclude that five of the nine are not worthy of what you call a measure of grace. I mean, we don't ask them to change their ideas, but if they do, they're not worthy of freedom. You have today reaffirmed your support for the judicial summit, the togaed policy, and do not question the judgment of 1 October. You do not question the judgment, but the members of the Supreme Court already do: 'The judgment of October 1 is dead in Europe, we have lost the battle.' In addition, he has taken heart by talking about a newspaper headline who gives them a very good note, but he has forgotten to tell about the suspension he was given last week at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. What is the progressive government's response to this suspension? And, Mr. Married, Sanchez is not the co-pilot of the car that leads us to independence. In fact, you know perfectly well that Mr Sánchez was not addressing the independenceists today, he was addressing his voters to seduce them and make it very clear to them that he will never allow a referendum, because, Mr Sánchez, although you now want to show that all this Machiavellian response to the ballot box was the work of the People's Party, I would like to remind you that yes, the People's Party went up to press the violence and repression button, but you were holding up the stairs, and you together pressed the 155 button. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] We have to do an equal dialogue, they say. Man, it's not the same, Mr. Sanchez. The president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the legitimate councillors, Anna Gabriel and Marta Rovira are still in exile. There are more than three thousand retaliated. The politicized and partial Court of Auditors is going to steal millions of euros from workers of the Generalitat of Catalonia for doing their job, and it is going to do so with the endorsement and with the support of the State's Advocate, who does depend on you. And that you don't move this piece makes us suspect that what you're telling us is this: a story, the same story that we're going to meet at the dialogue table. So, equals to equals no, Mr. Sanchez. In fact, there is only one way to have an equal real dialogue with Catalonia, and it is as simple as you do what you are always asking the People's Party: respect the result of the ballot box. Let us formalise the divorce, Mr Sánchez, and then yes, it is going to start a new stage of reconciliation and reunion, from state to state, and that time yes, equally, because the citizens of Catalonia do not demand reunion, they have voted independence, and we are going to expect that for you or for those who come the punishment will be useful again. And don't worry, Minister Ábalos, internationalization has not only not ended, but it has only begun. Mr Sánchez, you had the opportunity to manage in an exemplary way the inevitable, the result of the polls in Catalonia without violence and punishment, with politics and democracy. [[Finish your speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u16	Thank you, President. Before we talk about pardons, Mr President, you will allow me to start my speech by talking about European funds, because European funds are also of great concern to Catalans and Spaniards. We, of the European funds, who, of course, expect them as a possibility for the future, have some doubts that have not yet been resolved. We would like to know the role of the municipalities and the autonomous communities in the management of these European funds, we would like to know whether the autonomous communities are going to be a mere manager of these European funds or will have the capacity to decide. And we would like to know, because they ask us every day, and I asked their ministers and their ministers and they did not just answer me, how small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to access these European funds. When are the calls coming out? Will they be able to access directly or will they simply have to access as contractors or subcontracts of large companies and large projects? Mr President, this is what we also need to know today, and we hope that you can give us an answer. As far as pardons are concerned, Mr President, you know that from PeCAT, beyond the convictions or the ultimate reasons for them, we have appreciated them positively and are the beginning of a beginning. It is true that we can talk about concord, Mr President, but when we talk about concord, with what face can we look at the thirty-four people whom yesterday the Court of Auditors demanded as a preventive measure a bail, and if not, they will seize all their property? It's hard to talk about concord. And it's hard to talk about agreement with the mayor of Roquetes, who, along with dozens of mayors, is pending a sentence. Or with the people who are pending the proceedings in the court number 13 of Barcelona. So it's a start, but it's not enough. Don't listen to what the right and the extreme right can tell you. They do not seek solutions, they simply seek to occupy that space. Therefore, be courageous, be determined and be understanding, they are not taxive. [[pointing to the blue bench]] Don't deny what others are claiming, don't deny self-determination. You may argue that you do not share it, but do not deny it, Mr. President. Mr Casado, you said Catalonia is free because it is Spanish. Freedom, Mr. Married, is not going to pick up reeds when you want to or not meet your ex when you walk. Freedom, Mr. Casado, is to decide your future, and Catalonia is not free because it is Spanish. [[Applauds]] Scotland is free because it's British. But in Catalonia there are many that we think is not free because it is Spanish. And these arguments must be sought differently too, Mr President. You said that Catalonia without Spain would not be European or prosperous or plural. And I can tell you, Mr President, that Catalonia without Spain would be more European, more prosperous and certainly much more plural. From now on we have a lot of work left for each other, and the job is not to destroy, the job is to build. And if they want to build a future for Catalonia, if they want to build a political solution for Catalonia, they will have our support; they will have our support as long as this political solution is built and as long as Catalonia is prospered. It is important that the dialogue table between the two governments which is to be held in September is essential, but it is also essential that the bilateral committee which is going to have to meet next July, Mr President, and that progress must be made on both tracks. It is also important that you, if you want to convince the Catalans that they are doing much better in Spain, treat the Catalans much better, and that is also respecting their decision. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, and although it is not the subject, Mr. Married, I was listening to you, and you started with an extraordinarily serious thing. You said that the Civil War was a confrontation between those who wanted democracy without law and those who wanted law without democracy. Mr Casado, the coups stood up against the Spanish people, against Spanish democracy and against the law in force in Spain, and a Democrat should have it meridically clear. [[Applauds]] You appear here, Mr President, Mr Sánchez, when we are already approaching the equator of the legislature and we can make a certain balance, and we from More Country-Greens Equo have to say that we are proud to have accompanied the government every time the government has progressed. And today the government brings several good news, but it brings two that need to be reviewed. It is good news that the Government has made progress in the trans law, listened to the collectives and will once again put Spain at the forefront of the recognition of freedoms, as the Hungarian benches are placed. And it is very good news that the Government has made progress on the path of pardons, that on this issue it has not been looking at surveys, that it has not been looking at headlines and that it has looked at what is right to do and towards the coming decades. We do not believe that pardons are the solution to the political conflict in Catalonia, but they are the guarantee that the political conflict returns to politics, from where it should never have come from, and that the possibility of a solution is addressed, for which pardons were a sine qua non, although it will take many more, and they will all have to go along the path of democracy and politics. That's good news, and that's why we've been with the government from the beginning when it announced it. Taking stock, in any case, understand that we also have to point out some of the outstanding issues, which we believe would have to be the priorities for the next political course, because, moreover - I suppose you will share this reflection - this government is being paid the same price for announcing the things that in order to do them, it is being paid the same price because there is something to be done. That is why, since they have to pay the price, we take advantage of and transform our country. We have said several times in this rostrum that the lives of the Spaniards have remained very unprotected, very unprotected. We have often insisted that minimum living income is not charged, that most people are lost in bureaucratic labyrinths. When the aids are for those above, they are immediately attributed, and when they are for those below, a set of bureaucratic hurdles must be drawn. Only 30% of the people who were entitled have charged. Secondly, if we talk about insecurity, people eat wages and rents. A law has been passed in Catalonia, and it is a good law, which, against all agrarians, has been able to lower the price of rents and guarantee the right to housing; and a progressive government should not resort to, protect, extend and take it to every corner of our country. And two issues that you know, Mr President, that are particularly important to us. Three and a half months ago, we helped open a national debate on the issue of mental health. We have received very good words, but we are in the same, no action has been taken. People continue to wait months for a psychologist to attend to her in public health or, who can do so, to pay eighty euros for a private consultation. We do not have the update of the National Mental Health Strategy, we do not have a national plan to prevent suicide even though the other day the Sant Joan de Déu Hospital in Barcelona said that suicide attempts, of those who enter their hospital, have gone from four to twenty every week. In this regard, we have to say that we have many good words and that we do not yet have public policies. Secondly, the issue of climate change, and we believe that there is no greater challenge. These days the news has appeared in the press that there have been up to a hundred deaths from a heat wave in Canada and the northwest of the United States. They stopped to the trams, because the cable covers melted. In the face of this emergency, we cannot wait until 2050, not even until 2030. Surely you will be able to answer me how it is that a green force is abstaining from the Climate Change Act. The German Greens not only abstained, voted against the Climate Change Act, the Constitutional Court has given them reason and forced further reductions in CO2 emissions. We believe that this, although little is said about it, is the main challenge and that all efforts will always be few. And the last question, what will most decide the future of our country will be the European funds. As it is a complicated issue, as it is a more technical one, we talk little about it. We want to ask you to have at the start of the next course a monographic plenary on European funds, an exclusive plenary to discuss whether there is a conditionality and how we are going to deal with it, how we are going to deal with the payments of what is going to become debt and whether you are prepared for an in-depth tax reform that will make those who have the most to pay to bear these efforts; whether, in fact, European funds are going to go to the real economy or are going to be left in the hands of three or four large companies, of three or four large consultants and whether it is going to be used as a patch to get old projects out of the box because we have to run projects at all speed or if they are going to serve for a green industrial revolution that will make our country more prosperous, fairer and more sustainable. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. June 24, 2014, Montoro: 'The political climate prevents funding reform'. Day 15 June 2021, Montero: 'The political climate prevents consensus on financing'. Seven years separate these two statements, the PSOE minister saying the same thing as the PP minister, and I agree that the political climate is sometimes irrespirable with this right-wing shrill, rude, useless, clumsy and anti-patriot. With this right it is virtually impossible to reach any agreement and yet decisions have been made. Is there a political climate for approving pardons? Is there a political climate for meeting with Mr Aragonès and setting a date on the dialogue table? Is there a favourable political climate for trans law, for euthanasia? No, and yet it has been done, despite this right which looks more like a horde of orcs than a party of a European and civilized right. The Government has been courageous - I acknowledge - in seeking a solution to a problem as important as Catalonia. That is why you will acknowledge that it is absolutely unacceptable and insulting for the Minister of Finance and Spokeswoman of this Government to lift her shoulders and say that nothing can be done; for four reasons, Mr Sánchez: because it forces you to breach your word with five million Valencians and with Compromises - the investiture agreement, the budget agreement; because it is unworthy of a politician to say that there is no solution and to condemn five million Valencians to continue with a system that everyone knows is outdated and unjust; because it is not complying with the law, as the People's Party did, and it is also giving the People's Party the banner of funding, to a party that, when it had an absolute majority in this House, did nothing, so they are not hypocrites, they did not take the flag of funding, they could do it and they did nothing; and, lastly, why it is a lie. There are solutions: the leveling fund, as we have told you; proposal from the PSC of the Federal Treasury, which you offered to Mr Torra, whatever it is. And if the minister is unable, do it yourself. Keep your word, be brave. Keep your word. We have been loyal and honest, we have kept our word, because we agreed and because we think it was the best thing for this country, and we keep thinking about it. But be clear that it will not shake our hand if your Finance Minister continues to do the same as the PP's Finance Minister. There is life beyond Catalonia, there are other territories that also deserve a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u21	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, once again we have to bring to this rostrum a management of the European funds which we consider to be misguided by hyper-centralised and untransparent. The BNG defends the distribution of these funds by autonomous communities so that our country, Galicia, does not again get hurt, and also prioritize the criteria of public and social interest. It can't be that the big corporations are again the most benefited. We are also concerned about the counterpart of these funds. Yesterday we knew, for example, about changes in pension policies and confirmed that not only do they not repeal previous reforms, but they consolidate some of their most regressive aspects. They can and should be rectified. And what about the repeal of labour reforms or the gag law, commitments of your Government that have not yet been fulfilled? In a similar regression line is the claim to implement tolls on highways. We reiterate: in a country like Galicia, where there is no alternative to public rail passenger transport, freight, this is not a green measure, it is simply anti-social and detrimental to the interests of the popular classes and the economy of our country. Complying with the commitment set out in the investment agreement to modernise and expand Galician railway infrastructure, they also comply with the reduction of tolls in the AP-9 as soon as possible and rectify in connection with the transfer of this motorway in our country and with the set of committed transfers. They pay attention to the industrial crisis and the re-industrialisation of Galicia. They comply, in short, with what is contained in the investment agreement, because they are commitments not only to the BNG, but to all Galicians and Galicians. The credibility of the parties that support his Government, at least in Galicia, is played here, not in advertisements and propaganda, but in fact. [[The lady]] With regard to pardons, it is not going to be the BNG who criticizes you for them, but it is clear that this is a clearly insufficient measure. In any case, it is amnesty for all persons convicted, prosecuted or exiled in connection with the process for the independence of Catalonia, because exercising democratic rights such as that of voting can never be considered a crime. Moreover, we call on the Spanish State to recognize once and for all the right of self-determination for the nations that are part of it, as has just been done, by the Congress of Peoples in Caracas, annexed to the ALBA-TCP Summit, whose final declaration explicitly recognizes the right to self-determination of Galicia, Euskal Herria, Catalonia and the Canary Islands. It is time for the Spanish State to make democratic progress in this area as well. Galicia is a nation and must therefore be able to exercise the right of self-determination, because it is also a peremptory necessity for us to put an end to the consequences of political and economic dependence in our country...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u23	Mr. Rego, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u24	...and be able to advance in progress and well-being. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u26	Thank you, Madam President. We are at an extremely serious time for our country, and we are looking with some envy at other countries of the European Union, such as, for example, Italy, where national parliaments are debating, agreeing and approving by a very large majority recovery plans or discussing country projects to meet the major challenges facing Europe's citizens in the coming months. Here we could be discussing precisely those reforms that come from Europe to Spain. We could be discussing solutions so that the Spanish do not pay the price of the highest light in our country's history with this socialist government, to seek solutions for education, for employment; but no. Today we are here because the government really wants to ensure its survival at all costs, and it was not essential to get here; there were two paths that everyone saw for a long time throughout Spain. There were two ways to avoid the Frankenstein: I proposed before the formation of this government that path that you will remember, the 221, assimilating the European majorities in which Social Democrats, Conservatives and Liberals come to great European project agreements or even during the pandemic when we showed the whole of Spain that Sánchez had two ways to choose his stability. At such a hard time in the pandemic, we did it with our guts, because it is not easy to reach out to this president of the government, but we did it to prove that if he took the hand of Rufián, Junqueras, Otegi or Puigdemont it was not because he had no alternative, but because he wanted to. We demonstrate to the Spaniards - also to many socialists in good faith - that Sánchez is not only able to agree with these parties, he chooses to agree with these parties. Of course, for the Republican Left, for the Sánchez separatists it's a chollo. It looks very good in your debate, I wanted to thank Mr Rufián publicly for the speech he has made because he is very easy to see. You're really afraid of Citizens, you're very comfortable with Sanchez, you're very comfortable with VOX and the People's Party. I want to tell you one thing, Mr. Rufián, we have never received so much attention for something that supposedly does not exist; so I encourage you in the reply to continue attacking Citizens and show all Spaniards who fear separatism, which is the Kryptonite of separatism, which are not these gentlemen with whom you have grown so long, no; it is Citizens. [[applause]] The president of the government is president for the lie, he is the president of the lie because he arrived in Moncloa with lies and is going to stay in Moncloa with lies. Look, you have spoken of courage, Mr Sánchez, and I tell you that brave, courageous would have been to run for election by telling the Spaniards that he was going to agree with the separatists, that he was going to put Pablo Iglesias as vice president of the government and that he was going to pardon the coups. That would have been brave, but no. You never choose courage, but cowardice, because the people who hide behind lies have a characteristic and it is precisely cowardice, Mr Sánchez. Look, you're the president of three big pardon lies - I can't go over all the lies that support your presidency. A great lie for pardons is about what really happened; the second great lie is about what you intend to get with these pardons; and the third great lie is what you are going to do now, what is going to happen now in Spain with you as president. Look, the first big lie is about what happened. Because you intend to rewrite history, you intend to turn the victims into guilty and the guilty into victims by saying such obscene phrases as we all had the fault of the coup d'état. No, look; no, Mr. Sanchez, we weren't all to blame. We were also there, and not only in the images that you will have seen on TV - because it is the only closeness you have to what has happened -. No, no; not only in the images of the Parliament when the laws of sedition were passed by absolutely everything, not only the Constitution, not only the Rules of the House, not only the Statute of Catalonia, but the lawyers, the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the judicial decisions, jumping everything. No, not only was independence declared, which is the biggest affront this country has had as a nation since the 23-F coup d'état. No, not only had to be escorted from Parliament, not only were there attempts to assault Parliament that reached the door itself, no. You've been able to see that on TV or you've been able to tell him. However, what you are obviating and want to rewrite is the least visible but the most serious: the fear of families for so long that even in those dark days you did not go to work or take your children to school out of fear. You do not see the uncertainty of many officials who did not know whether they really had to pass that new sedition legislation the next day or had to stand firm in the constitutional order. You don't see that separatist public servants in a multitude of public institutions in Catalonia. No, you don't see the queues that there were - as we saw - to get money out of ATMs because there was really fear of a corralite. No, you didn't see those civilian guards and those national cops who were thrown into the street, like sarnosy dogs, camping, hotels, gymnasiums or how you saw their families pointed at their own homes. No, you didn't and don't want to remember those grandparents who spent a lot of time without seeing their grandchildren because they had family discussions about the trial. No, you do not want to see those public servants, besieged in buildings such as the Conselleria d ́Economia, nor do you want to see councillors of Citizens or other constitutionalist parties pointed out and threatened in their own homes. No, you didn't want to see and you didn't want to see those Catalan constitutionalists who had to go to the public buildings of Catalonia to serve you with a yellow bond and to see everything full of propaganda with the face of Junqueras. No, you don't want to see that indoctrination - which increased during those dates - in schools and universities. No, you do not want to remember a nimity - which nobody comments because it seems to me very serious - and it is that millions of personal data were taken from Catalans to make an illegal census, our addresses and our IDs, thanks to which it was also well known who went to vote and who did not go to vote. In the small villages - which you do not want to see and which have not been told because you only listen to Mr Rufián - the list of the people who had gone to vote and the people who had not gone to vote was perfectly well known. Some mayors drew the lists saying that whoever had not gone to vote had been an enemy of the people of Catalonia. You do not want to see how you looked on the balconies to see who had hung the Star or not hung it, in small villages in the interior of Catalonia. You have no idea or care because the only thing you hear from Catalonia is Mr Rufián's prefabricated speech, where you are very well aware of who is afraid of separatism and of course it is not you, Mr Sánchez, it is not you. However, we will not forget, because we were there, because we suffered, because we did not buy the broken scrap of separatism. I want to tell all those families who have been afraid, all those public servants who were afraid to go to work, all those grandparents who have spent a lot of time without seeing their grandchildren, all those civil guards and policemen who have been thrown like dogs on the street, all those public servants who have remained loyal to the values of freedom and the Constitution, that we are not alone, that their effort was worth it and that Spain, fortunately, is much more than Pedro Sánchez and his partners. [[Applauds]] Not in our name, Mr Sánchez; do not dare to speak of pardons in the name of Catalonia. Don't cover your power cravings with a desire for reconciliation in Catalonia, no. You know why? Because if you really thought that this was good for Catalonia and that there is a very strong majority of citizens who want it, I ask you a simple question: why didn't Mr. Illa come forward saying in campaign that he was going to pardon them and that he wanted to make a tripartite with the separatists? Why did they hide it? Why did they hide it, if you're so convinced it was the solution? [[Applauds]] You only get votes when you lie. All those seats you have here today, Mr. Sánchez, you got them saying that you were going to bring Puigdemont in custody and that you were going to criminalize the illegal referendum. Your word, Mr Sánchez, is absolutely worthless and today you have said it to Mr Rufián, who is your partner; you have told him that it is absolutely worthless. The second lie that you intend to make the Spaniards swallow with the pardons is that you really believe that this is going to bring agreement. Surely there are people who think that giving in more to these gentlemen - including pardons - can help calm the tension. I'm sure there are people of good faith who think about it, sure; I don't think there are many, but there are people who think about it. But, you? You, who presented yourself to the election campaign saying the opposite? You can't cover with desire for agreement what your power desires are, Mr. Sánchez. I can get the hemeroteca out of him, but it's so long that there's no time. [[Reading a text]] Adherence to the sentence means full compliance. We must put an end to the pardons, that is, the interference of the executive in the judiciary. No more pardons for political reasons; they will be assessed and, in addition, they will require the request of the court issuing the sentence. Moreover, this is not much to remember, but I want to remind you here, do you remember that Sánchez, back in 2018, said that the crime of sedition had to be adapted so that it could fit well what happened in Catalonia because not all the coups of state were with the military anymore? Do you remember? This speech is from Pedro Sánchez! I can also tell you about Mrs. Lastra. The pardons are a personal opinion of Miquel Iceta - said Mrs Lastra -, it is necessary to regret. What day did repentance cease to be necessary? Can you tell us, Mrs. Lastra? What day, what day? When did you fall off the horse? [[Mrs Lastra Fernández utters words that are not perceived]] I would like to ask you, Mr Sánchez, to share with all of us and with all of the Spaniards what day you ceased to be a vindictive, hateful, against the agreement in Catalonia. What day? How was it?, was it a telling dream?, did you have a conversation with any spiritual leader? What day did you stop being a vindictive saying the same thing we say now, to become that magnanimous man who suddenly sees that pardons are the solution? Share it with us because maybe there are more people who become. Share it, Mr. Sanchez. You have a great hemeroteca. One can err in one thing and change one's mind - to all of us can happen - but not with so many things and so insistently, and with key promises of the electoral campaign. There's no other one like you, Mr. Sanchez. There's no one else with this hemerotheque who can raise his head proudly! For anyone else this hemerotec would be a weight on your shoulders that would not allow you to lift your head and there you are, appealing to the spirit of the Transition, with two bemoons!, to the spirit of the Transition, Mr. Sánchez! [[Applauds]] Do you know what you, your pardons and your covenants think of the PSOE leaders who fought here for the Transition?But have you listened to Mr Felipe González and Mr Alfonso Guerra?Do you really come here to appeal to the spirit of the Transition when the Socialist Party leaders of the Transition period cannot be further away from you, Mr Sánchez? Shut up a little. No, this is not concord. If you want concord, I also make you a proposal, Mr. Sánchez: If you want concord, why don't you stop insulting more than half of Spain, which is not in favour of pardons?, do you agree when your trusted team is Mrs. Calvo, Mrs. Lastra and Mr. Ábalos?, is that a team for concord? You have told us everything: sadomasochists, that we are worse than the CDRs, that we are the far right. If you want concord, why do you keep insulting me and touching us and defending and rewarding the separatists? If you want to agree, at least you should send the same respectful messages to both sides; but no, you reward those who violate our rights and humiliate those who suffer them. Well, this is not concord, it is impunity and, moreover, it is not convincing. I'm sure there's someone convinced that this can help, I'm not saying no, but it's not you. In the next election campaign we will see you deny your pacts with the nationalists. We will see you, Mrs Lastra and Mrs Calvo saying that they no longer want to agree with the separatists. Come on, I imagine you in an election debate with some shackles in your hand saying you're going to bring Puigdemont in custody if you need it, because you're capable of anything. You are a danger!, because a president who is able to do anything is a danger. Look, this progressive thing has nothing. Giving impunity, including economic impunity, to people because they are partners of government is contrary to progressiveism, Mr Sánchez. There is nothing more progressive than the fact that all Spaniards, whether political, powerful, cult or not, comply on equal terms with the law. That's progressiveism. [[Applauds]] That's progressiveism, Mr. Sanchez! And yes, this is giving privileges to 9 people in Catalonia - 9 - and forgetting 7 and a half million Catalans and 47 million Spaniards. You are so in danger that of course I say to you, Mr Married, that if you table a motion of censure, you have no doubt that we will support you. Don't doubt it! In addition, Mr Sánchez may be frightened; perhaps some parliamentary support will now be more difficult to defend in his territories this support for pardons and these barbarities that the Government is doing. Who knows! In any case, I think it is much more useful to weaken Frankenstein than to introduce you to the present VOX; honestly I tell you. There's a choice. You said in your speech, Mr Sánchez - it is a monclovita mantra that is repeated a lot - that we do not propose an alternative. Look, I'm going to propose an alternative to yielding more to the separatists, which is what we've been testing in this country - people of good faith, people of bad faith - for forty years and it doesn't work. I propose an alternative: to agree on the major issues of state - investigations, budgets, country agreements - pacts between the constitutionalists and not between the parties that want to destroy the Constitution and Spain, alternative number one. Alternative number two. Do not confuse separatism with Catalonia, Mr Sánchez. You talk about Catalonia, that this is going to help Catalonia. No, this isn't going to help Catalonia, it's going to help separatism, which is part of Catalonia. And please don't talk more about Catalonia and Spain, it will be Catalonia and the whole of Spain, where we are also included Catalans. Do not buy the discourse of separatism. Third point for this alternative. Do not reward those who violate our rights every day in Catalonia. Let's try it like this! Because for forty years it has been looked at elsewhere, it has been rewarded with more things, more skills, more impunity. Why don't we try the other way around? Fourth point. Why don't we do a reform project in Spain so that, among other things, this country works better and that, among other things, Catalonia, the Basque Country or Navarre are not territories forgotten by state institutions? Fifth point. Why do we not make a government in Catalonia focused on the real problems of Catalans, who unite us with all Catalans, and not a government focused on separatism, which we have had all these years? And the sixth point, but for me fundamental. Start reversing separatist propaganda, because if you do not reverse separatist propaganda, it will obviously become more and more difficult to defend our rights in Catalonia and defend constitutional values, because you will be covered up in a mountain of separatism and propaganda financed by public funds. Look, why don't we try to do this, Mr. Sanchez, that we haven't tried it in 40 years? Why do you want to stumble forty times with the same stone? And besides, you don't do it out of conviction - that there will be someone who does -, you do it out of interest. As you rightly say, in Spain no one is persecuted for his political ideas, that has been said today by you and I agree, but do you know what is happening in this country? That separatist ideas are not pursued, on the contrary!, separatist ideas are rewarded!, it is a chollo to be separatist!, because you can embezzle, you can steal, you can point out, you can skip the Constitution, you can fail the sentences, and nothing will happen to you because you are separatist!No, no, if there are no political prisoners in Spain, what there are political pardons. [[applause]] Why? Because you don't put anyone in jail for your ideas, but you do get people out of jail for your ideas, for being from a certain political party, and that's what you're doing, Mr. Sanchez! You, in the name of progressiveism, are making having a xenophobic and absolutely insolidary ideology have a prize in this country. There are 8,000 prisoners in Catalonia, have you been interested in the lives of those 8,000 prisoners in Catalonia or have you only been interested in giving their benefits to their 9 partners, who are, incidentally, the ones who have to keep them in Moncloa? Look, Mr. Sanchez, it's not going to work out for you, it's not going to work out for you. You're going to do a lot of damage while you're in Moncloa, but you're not going to do well because you're making the same mistake as the separatists, and it's because they thought Spain was as weak as the government they had in front of them. And you think that Spain can be at your service, as if it were a banana republic, but Spain, fortunately, is much more than you and much stronger than your government. Therefore, I do not trust you to change and to start doing the things that should be done by a party called the Socialist Workers and Spanish Party, but I do believe in the officials of Spain, who are resisting their pressures, and I do believe and trust in the public institutions, who are resisting their attacks, and I do believe and trust the citizens, who are resisting their lies. I'm telling you, Mr. Sánchez, pride may not let you see one thing, but believe me when I tell you that you are undervaluing Spanish society, which is much more worthy, has much more memory and wants Spain much more than you think. I repeat, it's not going to work out for you. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Esteban Bravo. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casado says that his only shareholders are the Spaniards. Of course, the representation of the people - says the Constitution and you repeat it constantly and remind us - is in the Courts, is in the Chambers. Well, the Chambers have already said twice that they are in favour of pardons, of granting pardons. You yourself have proposed it, you have put yourself to the vote and there is a representative majority of the Spanish people, as you say, who have said yes. Listen, and more people have said it; the entrepreneurs have said it, the Church has said it, the European chancelleries have said it, and - you know it - the Council of Europe and, listen, the saying says that four eyes see more than two. But you go the other way, it looks like you're the car in the opposite direction and that's a bad thing, because, one of two, or you've been confused about direction, or you're a suicidal driver, and neither of the two options is good. I notice you, sincerely, angry at an unsustainable level. You came to say: those who left to keep their results account cannot claim to leave to keep Sánchez's results account, with the independenceists, referring to Catalan entrepreneurs. And then the threat I'm going to call former President Aznar's macara when he said: it's days to aim and not forget; nothing more and nothing less, it's days to aim and not forget. Man, one would expect greater temperance and a minimal vision of the future in a party that aspires to rule a country. I sincerely expected it even more after your speech in the motion of censure put forward by Mr Abascal, because this is an amendment to the whole of what you said. Of course, what's the recipe - these are literal words, I'm going to use literal words - to go back to where they should be, to jail. And, of course, that's why resources are presented. Well, I have to say that the pardoned didn't push the violence, quite the contrary, they didn't steal or keep anything in their pocket; they're not criminals. I'd say you know some criminals a little closer. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Look, comparing the pardoned to the Bataclan killers has neither feet nor head. But, of course, use expressions like what the United States did, what did the federal government do, send the army into the Civil War... hey, what are we talking about? Of course, it's common, I know, to pay, to suffer, to purge; it's very common in Spain if they do something you don't like. And the same with every law, resolution or agreement they don't like: resort to the courts. Spain has become a judicial state. Well, normally, if the courts, including the Court of Auditors, are controlled ideologically, of course, they do not renew themselves and it is logical that they will always and absolutely resort to everything, to such a point that, having seen it, sincerely, I believe that citizens will have to be told what more productive than voting in Parliament will be for judges to vote, if they can vote them. But it is that in the end they replace the popular will and popular representation, and that is not healthy for a democracy. The epithets that are being launched are of stickleton: unprecedented social alarm - which I do not see on the street, sincerely -; the pardons are one of the acts of greatest vileness; it is auctioned to Spain in a room of break-up. And then there are the mantras, which there are two special ones: one is the illegitimate government, which sounds a lot like Trump's speech, that of illegitimate government; the Biden government is an illegitimate government. Where is the illegitimacy of this government? And the other is the word betrayal, which you have not said alone, has been said by several people: yesterday it cast the fate of Spain - this is a week ago - into the hands of those who want to destroy it by disarming the rule of law, our rule of law. Answer the nation: why has it betrayed its plan to defend the national unity and equality of the Spaniards? Betrayal, it's the usual word, I think it's a serious word, it's not baladi. His speech always ends in this of illegitimacy and a red and broken Spain and those of the red and broken are those who are on the other side. Treason is a serious word, and one of two, or all of these epithets that are thrown are calderilla, which are actually said but have no value behind, or is that they are not read the Constitution, because if you want to accuse him of treason, you take article 102 of the Spanish Constitution and read: 'The criminal responsibility of the president and the other members of the government will be demanded, in your case, before the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court'. If the action is for treason or for any offence against the security of the State in the exercise of its functions, it can only be raised on the initiative of a quarter of the members of Congress, that is, 88, precisely the seats that Mr. Married holds. You can file a treason charge in the House. Evidently afterwards, to be sent to you by the Supreme, it will have to be this House that decides that there is such treason by absolute majority. Repeat the word over and over again so that in the end it does not translate into anything what it does is simply that so much thick stroke has no value or weight behind it. They can't pretend that every time they think they have an excuse, they ask for elections. It cannot be, in the end it shows its parliamentary weakness, because they know that this House will not understand it that way. So continuity of the legislature, so of course it is. The Government has budgets and a motion of censure is not going to work. Neither can you win it, Mr. Married, nor will Mrs. Arrimadas or Mr. Abascal ever do it. To call elections in the midst of the economic crisis when there are still two and a half years left in the legislature, when we have so many challenges ahead, when European funds are coming, when the whole of Europe is looking at us, I sincerely believe it is not serious. So how are things? Well, what there is is a challenge ahead, a very important challenge, and a lot of noise next door, a lot of side noise. Mr President, forget about that noise, forget about the noise and management. Let us stop gesticulating so much in the eyes of the public. There is a majority that supported the investiture, with which you can work. By the way, it is a majority and each of the seats that can sustain that majority has the same value as the rest of the seats. I have before been given the impression that Mrs Arrimadas, who made first-class seats, those of the good ones, the parties of the state; the parties of the state are also the red ones, but the red ones are not; - the very red ones, I mean, Mrs Díaz. Those aren't, those are second-class, and the nationalists are also third-class. No, they are worth the same because they also represent citizens of this State with the same rights and, therefore, they can also legitimately form majorities. Now, Mr President, the government - I understand it, it is a complicated government dynamic - may have the temptation to go too far at some point, and with a House like this we have to agree, we have to reach agreements, we have to share decisions, and I think that is the way. There was a migration issue in the European conclusions of the past 24 and 25. In fact, the conclusions say that the approach in this area must be pragmatic, flexible, and will be used as a coordinated 'Europe team'. They should without delay strengthen specific actions with priority countries of origin and transit, action plans, jointly. That, which is very good and logical, must also be explained here, because the adviser of the Basque Government for inclusion and social security sends Mr Escrivá a letter on 19 May saying: We urgently request a meeting to share information and strategies in the field of migration policy between the Government of the State and the autonomous communities. In view of the emergency situation we are experiencing, I would urge you to respond quickly to this request. Well, so far. Mr Escrivá acts as in Me, robot, as if there was nothing around, as if a migration policy could be carried forward only by the State. But we must give support, we must give shelter, we must make social assistance, we must do many things that the autonomous communities are responsible for, because we can find agglomerations - which we are already finding - of people who are trying to cross the border to France. And that will have to be ordered, we will have to talk, we will have to see it among all the autonomous communities. Canary Islands and Andalusia surely know what I'm talking about and Catalonia also has that problem. It cannot be more than a month and when we talk about this coordination in Europe, let us not do that coordination here, because I think it is very necessary. Mr President, I also believe that for this work it is important that there are no leaks, that there are no ex post meetings, that things are not told to the political forces of the House when they have already passed. I'm going to give you an example - from Mr. Write again - of a little while ago, for telling you something recent. We have the whole issue of pensions, an agreement that postpones many decisions, so we know it so far, because we know it by the press. An agreement is announced and I think it is very good that the Social Dialogue Bureau is intelligent, but the Social Dialogue Bureau does not vote. I also know that there is an already articulated text of all this, which will have to be voted on in this Parliament, but which we do not know. Of course, what we know is by the press and this does not help to fatten things. Or, for example, you like to say that you are complying with the law. Well, we'll have to agree on the entire tax settlement, which is a few years late. What I want to say is that we honestly don't care whether there is going to be government remodeling or not. It doesn't matter what you're going to do, whether you're going to put or remove names, whether you're going to merge ministries or not, it doesn't matter, but one thing I do ask you: there are many projects, there are many initiatives that don't just depend on a ministry, they depend on the coordination of several ministries, and that requires a political impulse. That's what I'm asking, you have to throw that oil gear to make it work in the best way. Before also said Mrs. Arrimadas that the officials are resisting to guide Spain in the face of this barbarity of this illegitimate government... I don't know if officials or politicians will be doing it at some point, but there are projects that are big and important in which various ministries are involved. We get fat, we give political impetus. Of course, the autonomous authorities - in the case of Euskadi - will also have to give political impetus and will have to correct some things, but let this be clear. If I ask you, please give it a ride, see the high speed train or many other projects you know we have. I need to talk about resilience funds. I think it is a very important challenge, we all know that it is something fundamental and that it can be, if managed well, one before and one after. The truth is that the president of the AIReF yesterday expressed the same feeling that we have. We have been in a planning phase so far, but now we have to move on to the implementation phase and clearly, that, frankly, we still see it a little green. Why? On the one hand, because the reforms are pending and, as I said earlier, we do not have much data on them either, and a majority will be needed here. And on the other hand, because we do not know, today, the implementation, the quality of the projects that will be implemented, because depending on what they are, the effect will be one or another. What I miss is an arrival photo. What's it supposed to be? In the end, what does the painting have to be? What should be, within six or ten years, the economic and social aspect of the Spanish State? The photo sure doesn't come out exactly the same - it never comes out exactly the same - as what one has planned, but at least you have to have and know that, because at the moment each ministry goes out, sometimes without notice, certain calls and aids, but there is no previous calendar to help. Then there's that indefinite project. There are the axes, but we will have to go further and know that here there is a pole that can push this more, here this other one, here have not started, is very bearded, but also you have to help them create something of this kind. But we do not see that yet defined and it is already urgent. We tried it in Euskadi. We have presented a joint public-private plan of what we believe can be provided from Euskadi. We are particularly encouraged because, in the last recent European Innovation Report, Euskadi has been described as a region of high innovation, a pole of excellence, which can be one of the levers for all this. Not everything has to impact on Euskadi, it can also impact elsewhere, but what we need is to go and see what that final photo is and have a calendar from some ministries and others. Finally, Mr President, we can be, if everyone acts responsibly and calmly, at the beginning of a fruitful stage of dialogue, a new time that should generate stability. Take the opportunity to lay the foundations of a different country, in the more open and European future, with a better and stronger economic base; a country respectful of self-government, but also with national identities because, what is denied is denied, that will always be there. Until you find yourself, everyone will have their forms and aspirations and their desideratum, but knowing what the situation is, you have to try to get to a meeting, starting from reality and those national realities are there. I would tell you to explore and seek solutions, to open up a new time, that there are two and a half years to do important things; it is more, that we cannot waste time and it is a real challenge. That's why I was telling him to leave the noise on one side, let's stop gesticulating and try - try on the part of everyone - to find solutions and, above all, never say anything to anything. We'll see how things go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group, which in this turn accumulates its turn of reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u30	Egun on. Good morning. Mr Sánchez, ministers, ministers, these days we are closing a political course that has possibly been one of the hardest and most difficult in recent decades. It has been severe for citizens and hard for all people we have had or have had to take responsibilities and make difficult, complicated decisions, with the aim of dealing with a global pandemic and its human, economic and social consequences. That is why we would like to value, year and a half later, the lesson of responsibility, solidarity and collective commitment that people have shown. Because it's been amazing, yeah, and we say it and we recognize it very little. In an individualist society, where community values seemed to be disappearing, we have seen how in the face of a collective problem we have been able to give common answers by getting the best out of societies that have prioritized us above me. I would like to think that these values will persist and that we will really get something good out of this whole nightmare. We should not forget the support networks in villages and neighborhoods for our elders during the confinement; the applause for public health at eight o'clock in the afternoon; the social policies so as not to leave behind, which started from the smallest people to this House; the solidarity, support and affection shown to our elders, caring for us, caring for them; the gratitude to the culture and its creators, who held us for those long weeks at home; the awareness recovered about people invisibly as caregivers, workers and domestic workers, cashiers and cashiers that we now see as being, still being and are essential. Let us not forget this because all these values, all this collective solidarity, will make societies more supportive, fairer, more aware of the importance of the collective, the common and the public. The pandemic is taking its last steps - we hope so at least - and vaccines, which are working, have been a historic milestone. Public health is also demonstrating a great ability to cope with mass vaccination as never before seen. That's what's happening. Right now we see with concern how cases rise among young people who have not been vaccinated, although the increase in conditions is not implying an increase in hospitalizations or faintings - because, indeed, vaccines work -, we would not like to repeat the same mistake that was already made once criminalizing young people. Let us not hold them accountable for the problem again, instead of being part of the solution. Let us not allow some irresponsible attitudes to lead us to point out an entire collective as selfish fools without conscience, without respect. Let's not, because it's not true. Perhaps we should remember where youth has been during this pandemic. I've seen them. They have been creating and organizing these networks of solidarity and support for the elderly; they have been on the street, supporting the most affected groups by the pandemic, such as the hospitality industry, the thousands of workers affected by the ERE; they have been on the front line, stopping evictions or, as before yesterday, flooding the streets with LGBT rights, and they will be receiving us in the summer in hotels, in restaurants, in beach bars, when most of us go on vacation, while they and they will continue to work precariously for all of us. That's also youth and it's the big part of it. Let us not let some attitudes of irresponsibility tarnish all that they have offered us, because youth, teenagers, have lived a pandemic in the midst of one of the most determining times of their lives; that time that is when we build ourselves as social people, we begin to weave our environment and our relationships. A part of the life that we all remember, I'm sure, in which everything is to be discovered, to live and to which they and they have had to renounce during this long year. For all of us it has been very difficult, yes, but also for young people and also for adolescents, more if possible. We will see this when we are aware of the important consequences generated in youth by the other pandemic, that of mental health; a pandemic that is also being eaten in this sector of the population. That is why we must recognize and convey to them that no, that irresponsible attitudes do not make them the problem and that we are many, that we are many, the majority, who we continue to believe have been, are and will be part of the solution. I wanted to say this because I think we have to say it too. Similarly, Mr Sánchez, we want to move you two issues related to the current phase of the pandemic. The first relates to the so-called COVID passport, approved by the European Union and necessary to travel safely from tomorrow. As we have already asked Minister Darias, we ask her to put an end to the discrimination which implies that, in order to obtain this passport, unvaccinated persons or those who do not have natural immunity, must pay out of her pocket the around 100 euros that costs a PCR test to be able to travel, 100 euros in go and 100 euros in return. This situation, again, particularly affects young people because they are not yet in the vaccination strips. In fact, it is an injustice, an injustice that the Government can tackle by ensuring the freeness of the evidence necessary to be able to make use of the COVID passport. We are asking for some common sense, which is already being applied in other European states. In addition, it would be a temporary measure until vaccination reaches the entire population and testing ceases to be necessary. The Minister of Health told us that no, that unvaccinated young people would have to pay the CRP. We hope that today you will rectify this erroneous position, in our view, and commit yourselves to this request. The second demand has to do with the expansion of the delta variant by Europe and also by this state. Vaccines also work with this variant, so we ask you, as we have asked our own governments, to propose and agree in the Interterritorial Health Council to accelerate vaccination with second dose of AstraZeneca for people between 60 and 69 years of age who are still in limbo with a single dose. This new delta variant can generate serious conditions in this age range, if they do not have the full pattern. It makes no sense to make them wait up to the 12-week limit for the second dose, when they can and should be vaccinated already. That is why we ask you to do so and to protect those thousands of people, who are now the most vulnerable and exposed. Vaccines save lives and prevent contagions, if they do, but if they are stored in refrigerators, no. As I said, the pandemic is coming to an end thanks to vaccines and with the end of the pandemic we are afraid that the measures of the social shield that was activated at the time will also be completed. We fear that the ERW will give way to the EREs with the labour reform of the People's Party still in force; that evictions will multiply even more without a housing law that prohibits them; that the autonomous and the autonomous will be once again unprotected; that culture will not be able to return to its activity and that no more aid will be available, or that large companies will be able to cut off essential supplies to vulnerable families. We are concerned - and very concerned - that what you call new normality is too much like old normality, that of unemployment, precariousness, social unprotectiveness and lack of decent conditions. That is why we again call for, for the umpteenth time, for it to bet on progressive policies that not only preserve the social and economic rights of the social and working majority, but also to expand them and bring about structural changes that guarantee the social and labour well-being of workers, as a better formula to deal with the consequences this pandemic will leave. Mr Sánchez, you say yes, that your government will repeal labour reform, but here we continue to wait and you fail. He says yes, that rents will be regulated and evictions will be ended, but they continue to occur and you continue to allow it. It is said that yes, it will increase the SMI, but for the moment it remains frozen. They are promises that fail, commitments that do not arrive. All the decisions that have not yet been taken must be taken, starting with the repeal of labour reform, the increase in IMS and pensions, the regulation of rents or the introduction of excise duties on the rich, banks and multinationals. These are some of the decisions we expect in what remains of the legislature, and we expect them soon. Now, with the arrival of European funds, we are afraid that their conditionality will entail further cuts. We too believe that European funds represent a great opportunity if they are invested well, if they are invested in a real transition towards fair digitisation, towards industrial conversion, towards the energy and ecological transition, towards the construction of a more just economic and social model. But this will not be possible if most of these funds end up in the hands of large companies under the false green envelope. This transformation will not be real if it does not start from below and from the public, starting with the municipalities and imbuing all public policies. This change will not be possible if it is not done with the social participation it requires and the transparency it needs. We will be vigilant because there are many shadows, because you speak of the European manna as if it were free money that carries no conditions or cuts, but we already have the first example that points in the opposite direction: pension reform. This is the first of the three reforms we consider structural, along with the new labour reform and tax reform, and we do not like what we are seeing. We appreciate that the sustainability factor will be eliminated and we also value the establishment of the CPI as an index for the revaluation of pensions, as these are two of the demands that the pensioner group has been demanding for years, but we are very concerned that the increase in minimum pensions will not be included or that early retirement will be penalized. We do not share this extreme at all and we say it very clearly because you will understand, Mr President, that many people cannot extend their retirement because there are jobs that are running out. There are thousands of people who have spent their whole lives in very hard jobs who can't afford to work anymore, and you intend to steal that right and penalize it. It's not justice, and yes, this is cutbacks, too. In addition to being an unfair measure, it hinders the generational relief so necessary for a labour market that guarantees fair access for young people. Mr Sánchez, we hope that you will reflect on this measure of pension reform and that it will not fall into the temptation that the major reforms that are to come will move away from the goal of deigning the lives of the working and social majority. We will use our weight in this House to prevent cuts from falling back on citizenship. Because, as we always say, they must now pay the others: the rich, the banks, the big companies, all those who got rich with the 2008 crisis and who are now getting rich again in the middle of a pandemic. From the banks, which pose EREs of thousands of workers, to the rich, who almost don't pay taxes, to the electrics, who blackmail us all at their abusive prices, all have had a thousand million dollar profits while the majority struggled to survive in the midst of the crisis. Metals hand to them, Mr. Sanchez, and make them pay. Not just because they can, but because they owe it to the citizenry. We have told him on other occasions and I repeat it today: we do not care what Mr Garamendi says or thinks, we do not care what IBEX thinks or says. You committed yourself with citizenship to taking left-wing policies that dignify people's lives and that's what should matter to you. It has the social and political majority to do so, and it is therefore a matter of political will to address all these issues. Mr. Sánchez, it's been two years since you were appointed president and formed the coalition government. And yes, it's time to balance. We appreciate the steps taken, but we expect much more from you and your Government. I am not saying it as a reproach, I am saying it as an invitation to face the problems that are still latent in this State. You are supported by a progressive and plurinational majority, a majority that expects progressive and left-wing policies and democratic solutions to national conflicts. You have made a decision with pardons to Catalan political prisoners, a decision we value, a necessary but insufficient assessment, because they and they should not have spent a single minute in jail for putting ballot boxes. It is insufficient because there are still more than three thousand people retaliated following the referendum of 1 October and insufficient, too, because exiles continue to be forced to live away from their country because of the repressive threat of the Spanish State. Mr Sánchez, prison, exile and repression, all for voting in a democratic and peaceful way. Therefore, yes, pardons were necessary, but after the outrage that has been committed with the Catalan people, they are neither the solution nor the solution to the conflict. Mr. Sánchez, Scotland will sound like you, that country north of England that voted to decide your future and will do it again. He did so in a democratic and peaceful manner, without beatings, without cops, without bursting schools, without extreme trials, without jail or exile. This referendum took place in a European state, and it will happen again because democratic states deal with national conflicts in a democratic way, because democratic states accept their differences, respect them and give them a solution, in a dialogue and agreed. That is our model, Mr Sánchez, of respect, dialogue and agreement. The question is what is yours, beyond that kind of permission that you have given us today to feel as we want to feel. That's what we do, in feelings they don't rule the law. Let us be serious, Mr Sánchez, you have the challenge to be the Spanish President who addresses the conflicts with Euskal Herria, Catalonia and Galicia from understanding, dialogue and agreement, in a democratic way, understanding that there are national realities that want to express themselves freely and decide their future without going against anyone, but thinking of their own needs and desires; from a sincere dialogue, without veto, without exclusions, that allows us to debate and offer Basque, Catalan and Galician citizens the various options for building their future with the same legitimacy and with the same respect for all of them, without dismissing or vetoing any option; from an agreement that allows our societies to decide their future with a clear commitment that their decision will be respected and implemented, whatever this may be. In short, a solution that goes beyond respecting the democratic principle of decision-making through the word and the ballot box. We are not asking you for anything that you do not ask for for your people, because you, Mr Sánchez, also defend the right to decide, the problem is that you believe that this right is only yours and the Spanish citizenship; it denies our own status of differentiated realities which is the basis of the assumption of plurinationality. Mr President, you have come to this government claiming to believe in it, in the plurinationality of this state, and now you must prove it. We aspire to generate a national debate in our country that defines how we want to build our future, what tools we want to set in motion to address the challenges we face as a society. We want to make this debate openly with Basque society and let it be the Basque society that votes and decides the direction of its future. And what we ask of you is respect for this decision, no more or less. Because, as I told you, a new political status for Euskal Herria or Catalonia or Galicia does not go against anyone, it does not go against Spanish society, it is simply in favour of a more just, free and democratic future for our societies. This is what we ask, that the same respect as week after week we, this plurinational majority show here with every step, with every advance for the benefit of the entire Spanish society, you have it with the Basques and Basques when we want to move forward and make our own decisions. Two years remain, Mr Sánchez, and as I have said many times we are very responsible, we have proved it, but we are also very demanding. We have helped this State to move forward, to ensure that workers increasingly gain rights, we have promoted good agreements for Basque citizens and for the rest of the State, from the repeal of labour reform - we continue to wait, but here is the agreement - to budgets with social progress. Because, as we always repeat, we say what we do and we do what we say. It is now up to you to fulfil this maximum, Mr Sánchez, and to do what you said you would do, because our loyalty - I think I told you once - is not to your Government, but to Basque citizenship, and because we will value you for your deeds, not for your words. You have, Mr Sánchez, two years to take a path that will have a new political time in this state; two years to put the pillars of a new stage that will make this state a democratic state of the twenty-first century. Move this path, Mr. Sanchez. It won't be easy, we know, but as you have rightly said - and these are your words - the problems are to face them and are to solve them. Keep taking steps, take out that boldness that you've drawn on some occasions and let's move forward. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which accumulates in this speech its turn of reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u32	Thank you, President, good morning. Good morning, President. You have based your speech in relation to Catalonia on three concepts: the idea of politics, the idea of forgiveness and the idea of the principle of reality. As far as politics is concerned, we can talk about politics, but the interesting thing is whether politics is useful. We think it offers us solutions that seem like a journey to the past. Mr Sánchez, you come to Catalonia and you offer Spain progress, public money for big companies, the spirit of the Constitution and even you offer us some Olympic games. We are not in the 1990s, in Catalonia it has been thirty years, and Catalan society needs neither bread nor circus, it needs referendum, it needs amnesty and it needs transformative social policies. But you, I have already told you, seem to invite us to make a trip to the past, and this seems to be your policy. Then speak of forgiveness; after three and a half years of repression you come to tell us that you forgive us. In fact, he walks with the king through the Mobile World Congress, through the High School, and talks about forgiveness, after walking and explaining to us that you have the employer next to you. Will you forgive us, Mr. Sanchez? Do you think you have the power to forgive the people of Catalonia? If you want to talk about forgiveness, we prefer to talk about amnesty, which is the only thing that poses an alternative to the institutional violence that has existed in Catalonia for three years. And, Mrs Calvo, in the last session of control she said that amnesty was against democracies; looking, it is easy to see that in this state an Amnesty Act was passed in 1977, and that only in France in the 20th century there were two presidential decrees, four amnesty laws, and also in Portugal in 1966 there was another Amnesty Act. It seems that it is not so much against democracy, Mrs Calvo; it seems that the framework of amnesty depends on the political will you have; it seems that it is. What happens in this State with the Amnesty Act of 1977 - which in fact in January, if I am not misdirected, the Constitutional Court dropped a request from the Workers' Commissions to investigate the tortures of a leader of his in Asturias - is that the Constitutional Court ruled against this investigation of the tortures on the grounds that this law was in force. Well, Mrs Calvo, the problem with amnesty in the Spanish State is not that there is no law, it is that the law that there is prevents investigation of the tortures of Francoism. And then you spoke of the principle of reality, Mr Sánchez, and you said: there will be no referendum on self-determination. How curious! It's the same as Mariano Rajoy said in 2017. How curious! Well, look, we want to answer you with a few words also from 2017 of our colleague Anna Gabriel, today in exile in Switzerland. A few words Anna Gabriel addressed to the President of the Government of the Government of Catalonia at the time, Carles Puigdemont, and told him: referendum or referendum. Well, Mr. Sánchez, this is what we say: referendum or referendum. There's no other one left, if you want to talk about the principle of reality. And we also say to Mr Aragonès: referendum or referendum. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] And it is that you, Mr Sánchez, challenge us to win self-determination here in the Congress of Deputies. And he tells us: come and win a referendum of self-determination with the votes of three-fifths of the House. Well, Mr Sánchez, you know that this is a trap; for two fundamental reasons it is a trap. First of all, because even if the UPC took out all the deputies of the Catalan Countries, we would have enough votes to get through the votes the referendum of self-determination. And the second reason why he's cheating is because his beloved article 2 of the Spanish Constitution was an article that at the time came directly from Zarzuela, or was it the same at the time from El Pardo? The indivisible unity of the Spanish nation. You do not lift your eyes from the paper, we understand that because you are going to answer us point by point, but we did want to tell you that while you are talking about the principle of reality, hiding in this trap that has been made yourself, we are talking about democratic legitimacy. [[the president of the government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, makes affirmative gestures]] You can laugh, I already understand that we make fun of them anyway. I'll end up telling them that if they want to talk about the beginning of reality, we'll talk. We will end up quoting Guillem d ́Efak, for us a reference - since you are very poet lately and you quoted Miquel Martí i Pol in high school -, who said: And this goes for Mr Aragonès: Mr Pere Aragonès: referendum or referendum. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] And it goes for you too, Mr Sánchez, in two years' time there will be a referendum in Catalonia. Go and think if you will do the same as the People's Party - since you have quoted us the same headline as Mariano Rajoy - or you are going to stand next to the people of Catalonia, and you are going to ensure that citizens can vote free. Referendum or referendum, Mr. Sánchez, you have no other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, there are definitely two realities. People hear him talk about billions of Europe that will come in the form of aid, but they don't see them anywhere. Direct aid is not reaching the hundreds of thousands of self-employed people and SMEs who need it to survive, nor are it reaching the most vulnerable families. There is a world out there where people are suffering more and more needs, where minimum vital income has been a failure and where NGOs are struggling to get things as basic as no one is left without food. It is terrible, but there is a world of queues of hunger, of people who have lost work and hope, and there are thousands of people who cannot process their pension or unemployment because you have blocked the Employment Service or the Social Security offices. And on top of that, your government, Mr. Sánchez, is going to make the biggest ERE in the history of this country, will put hundreds of thousands of public employees on the street, and will also fire them without compensation. And on top of that it will do so at the same time that thousands of people affected by the ERE of banking in our country are going to go to unemployment. You think you're Caesar Emperor in the Moncloa, playing pardons, with your finger up or down. It is believed that you can play bread and circus, announcing the end of the use of masks and the return of fans to the stadiums, against any scientific and prudence criteria. The pardons on the one hand and the relaxation measures on the other. This is a game of trilers, Mr. President. There is increasing scarcity on the street and this Government is only engaged in politics. The price of fuels has been fired and also that of light, which is sinking to hundreds of thousands of small businesses, such as hairdressers, to which you do not lower taxes. The ship sinks and you have the lifeguards guarded to give them to just a few. I know you don't care what happens in the Canary Islands, but you know that thousands of immigrants are still arriving and that they are still dying, like yesterday a five-year-old girl, this weekend, without going any further. He cares very little about the Canary Islands, and that is why he has allowed his government to fail to comply with the REF Act, the statute, and to load filming on the islands. And that's why he's going to bury the canary banana next week in the Food Chain Act. And that's why the promised rescue plan for island tourism never comes. They have left the Canary Islands a year and a half abandoned to their fate in the worst social and economic catastrophe they have suffered. Mr Sánchez, your government has been harmful to Spain, but above all it has been harmful to the Canary Islands, and today they trample a statute and a REF against the unanimous opinion of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, including its Socialist Party, including Podemos, including Citizens...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u35	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u36	...and of course the nationalists. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr President of the Government, in the face of the competition of disqualifying adjectives that we have seen today by some speakers, I will try to take advantage of my time, which is little. As far as emigration was concerned, I was going to say something, but Don Aitor Esteban has already said everything. I subscribe word for word to what Don Aitor Esteban has pointed out. It is good that there is talk of emigration to the European Union, but it is not good that a policy is not developed to define the territorial burdens of the Spanish State as a whole and of the European Union to deal with this tremendous phenomenon. I have to tell you that we support the fact that you have opened a way for dialogue in Catalonia, because we believe that, in the face of hatred and confrontation, it is necessary to give a chance to dialogue in order to overcome the social and political fracture that this land has. Once I have said this, I will tell you that it is okay, that we applaud the opening of spaces for collaboration with other communities, but I have to point out that the spaces for collaboration with the Canary Islands are being closed and, as we have not had the opportunity to resolve it for a year with the Ministry of Finance, I have to use this forum to tell you. This Member, and not only the Government of the Canary Islands for land, sea and air, we have tried to explain for more than a year that it is necessary to respect the FRY; that audiovisual productions, which are a quantitatively smaller issue, but also a qualitatively larger issue because they affect our future, it was necessary to adapt them to the FRY, and we have not only failed to achieve this, but that in the draft law that will be discussed later, although, as Mrs Oramas has already pointed out, there has been a unanimous pronouncement by the Government of the Canary Islands - you know who makes it - a unanimous pronouncement by the Parliament of the Canary Islands using the principle of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy, Article 168.2 which makes it clear that the Canary Islands must be consulted in the amendments to the FRY, and an unfavorable opinion has been delivered unanimously. This happens almost never in the Canary Islands or anywhere, it is difficult to happen. We haven't been able to get along with the finance minister. So, we tell you that we cannot allow this, we need you to intervene. It is that, as a result of non-compliance, the agreement that we have signed by the Socialist Party and New Canarias for this parliamentary term, on a meridian basis, is not being complied with. This is not a reason for speculation. This draft law should not have been dealt with following this item on the agenda, or at least the proposed amendment, which was refused by the Parliament of the Canary Islands for violating the REF, which was forcibly introduced to modify the REF in a negative sense to the interests of the Canary Islands, should have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u39	Mr. Quevedo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On October 1, 2017 Catalan independence carried out the biggest blow to our democracy in decades. Now, Mr Sánchez, you and your Government become accomplices to that coup against Spain. The pardons he has given to those who have for years destroyed coexistence in Catalonia, the streets, the squares, the shops, trampling on the law, imposing a totalitarian ideology, restricting the rights and freedoms of Catalans who do not share their political vision, are not magnanimity, they are an act of miserable cowardice. They're miserable because you don't grant them thinking about Spain, you do it thinking about yourself. And they are cowards because they are the faithful reflection of the submission, of the humiliation of a president who knows that he no longer has the backing of the Spaniards, and that he is willing to pay the price that is necessary to get into power. And we saw him today. Mr Rufián has come out to mock you, and you have nothing but to swallow, because, of course, pardons are given not out of utility, but out of necessity. He gives them for their selfish interest, because he is giving them to those who took him to La Moncloa and to the only ones who can make him stay there. It is a lie that pardons are going to bring independence back; and it is because nationalism needs to live from victimism, and that is why it has a constant demand. When you get something, the next step is to stop again and ask for more, because its essence is the claim. And that's why it ends independence, because it needs something unattainable that will serve as an inexhaustible source to sustain victimism forever, and thus tighten the nut a little more: to collect the next price, to take a step further in its strategy. Nationalism is not defeated by giving in to its blackmail, it is defeated by the unity of the Spaniards and by the law, and it is fattened by the assignment and the concession. This is the first policy, Mr President; it is the first policy. And here, once again, this scheme has been perfectly fulfilled. It had not yet been a second since you gave in to blackmail and gave them pardons and we already had Mr Aragonès, first, asking for the Catalan Republic; yesterday saying that the pardon is no longer worth it, that they want amnesty. Then Mr Junqueras asked for the republic and the referendum; Mr Otegi for the release of ETA prisoners; and the PNV for an independence process for the Basque Country. Are you going to give it to him too, Mr. President? Anyway, you don't have to answer me, just because you say what you say I won't believe you, your word no longer has any value. You have lied so much that you have become a fake of yourself, and you have lost the main quality that a president can have, which is credibility. We've seen what's happened here. What we don't know is what's going to happen in the future, because you're capable of everything. The shipwrecks we understood very soon, the moment you hugged Bildu's arms. Now all Spaniards know; you don't move an ideology, you move an ambition, you have no more principle than your interest and opportunism, you don't care about Spain, you care about power. And that is why it has not had any means of ending the equality of Spaniards before the law, the independence of justice, the unity of Spain or the international prestige of our country. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are no ideas, no crimes, no revenge, no justice. Spain is a full democracy, a free and secure nation, plural and diverse, yes, but strong and united. That is why I want to end a message to the face of all the independenceists who are in this House: forget, there is no hope for independence in our country, there is no hope, do not confuse Spain with the government, sanchismo will pass, but Spain will remain here strong and united, exactly as it has been for centuries of history. In our country there is nothing beyond the law, there is no more sovereignty than the sovereignty of all Spaniards. With Sanchez you can, not with Spain. Sánchez is getting less and less, Spain has a huge future ahead of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u44	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, as you know, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria has not supported these pardons, because one of the functions of penalties is crime prevention, special prevention so that those who committed them cannot repeat them, and general prevention so that those who are tempted to do so think twice. In this case, from what we are seeing these days, both aspects are in danger. The Government bases the pardons on public utility in order to promote the agreement of Catalan society, which is very commendable, in addition to legal, but that is also shocking with what I have just said about crime prevention, which also directly affects public utility. However, what is most suspicious in Spanish society is the suspicion that these pardons are being used as a prior commitment, as a political counterpart to obtain the support of Catalan independenceists; of course this is impossible to prove. I personally believe that you intend, sincerely, Mr Sánchez, to improve Catalan litigation with these pardons, apart from other suspicions, and this is the other side of the coin. It is also true that pardons are partial and conditional, an important part of the sentences has been served and, in addition, the People's Party has done a lot for them by bringing them to vote in this Congress even before knowing the details because, even by subtracting the votes of the parties directly affected, the PP motion was rejected, and what is voted here should serve something, even if it does not like it. But from the position of the PRC this has been a mistake, because we believe that it is more the drawbacks than the advantages, and because we have already seen, in other cases related to this, that in some way non-compliance with penalties has not had any negative effects, much less. But so many expectations have been raised, especially in Catalonia, that today it is difficult to reject these pardons. Now it's done and I wish it would go well, Mr. Sanchez. We are still in the time of rhetoric; as long as the thing remains there, without continuing the actions that threaten us, we all remain much quieter. Time will tell. Meanwhile, his Government, in addition to seeking agreement, had an outstanding task, because it was the Government of the State. Mr Sánchez, you have to be a man of state and your obligation is to empower the state in Catalonia, which is disappearing at strenuous steps. The State represents what unites us, the common thing, what makes citizens, in the broadest sense of the word, have equal rights despite the differences and peculiarities of each one. It is essential to defend the rights of non-independence Catalans and the rest of the Spanish in Catalonia. The pardons are in the Constitution, the same as the courts of justice, which have fulfilled their task; it is the rule of law, which in Spain is full despite the fact that some interested people question it, and it is up to us all to defend it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u45	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u46	To you, Mr. Sanchez, first of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. His appearance by pardons, Mr Sánchez, coincides with the three years of his arrival in the government, backed by separatist, independent and anti-system groups, which renewed his support at the beginning of 2020 and which, in return, with intolerable accusations of repression that denigrate us before the world, are being charged an unbearable bill that pays Spain. With such compadres any appeal to concord is and will be pure fantasy. In this black triennium the major problems have become acute, we know it well in Asturias, which is the evil laboratory where the pathological variants of socialism proliferate, with the destruction of employment and desertification as a consequence of radical decarbonisation, an industry penalised by the disparate energy costs, which reduce competitiveness and extinguish once stable and qualified jobs; a galloping ageing of the population without affecting measures that go beyond evanescent propaganda; collapses from birth while his Government eludes direct plans and aid to families, and as the exodus of young people in search of the future, which has meant a loss of 10% of the Asturian population in the 21st century. It is also impossible to do so in rural areas, where, in addition to the government's lukewarmness in the EU's agricultural and fisheries negotiations, the executive's direct attack on the wolf's regulations, which keeps thousands and thousands of herders in outrage. You preside over a blue bank that today has several nerve ministers for its personal future, while families and consumers face an abusive general rise in prices in fuels and in the receipt of light, which are firing the shopping basket and impoverishing society. Mr Sánchez, with his bitter territorial politics Spain is falling back and destroying the exemplary pact of the Transition. In this terrible peril we continue without the urgent reform of the autonomous financing system, whose validity severely harms communities such as Asturias, which condemns us to inequality, the lack of investment equity for the modernization of infrastructures, and drags us into deception, because European funds for socio-economic recovery projects will be sectarianly distributed to the letter. Finally, as a Member who rejected the decree of the state of alarm for affecting fundamental rights, which you recriminate me here, I trust that the imminent declaration of unconstitutionality will translate into the move of the Moncloa to put an end to this gloomy period of Spanish history that you, Mr Sánchez, have starred in. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u49	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor last. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u50	Good morning, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to go straight to the point, given the time we have in the Joint Parliamentary Group. The Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is already approved and has received recognition from the European Commission. It is a substantial step forward in overcoming the crisis resulting from the pandemic and it is an opportunity to correct structural failures in our country, in the model of economic development, which has caused territorial imbalances and depopulation and, consequently, the vertebration of the territory as well. These funds must be the turning point in Spain's territorial economic model. In implementing the plan, the Government must be decisive and determined to change the inertias of ministries that go against the solution of the problem and that still exist, despite the theoretical solution of the problem. If we really want to end the digital divide, for example, we must take advantage of the Recovery Plan to begin the implementation of 5G in the regions with less coverage - and not to do so as usual - to ensure service to businesses, the population or telework or education in these regions. Telework, for example, must be a real opportunity that is already consolidated for these territories. To solve a structural problem we cannot always do the same from the administrations; if we don't change anything, it won't change anything. For this reason, the execution of infrastructure where it has not been built, in provinces such as Teruel, which are still isolated, with historical deficits, must be given priority - another example. In other words, the programming of infrastructure must be reordered in rhythms and times within the ministry. That is just the opposite of yesterday's agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the Government of Aragon, which decided to replace the train with buses or taxis at various frequencies in Teruel-Valencia or Monzón-Lérida relations. And it seems that the negotiation was not if we maintained the railway infrastructure, but who paid for the bus or the taxi. It's unfortunate. That's not our position. We want a conventional train that articulates the territories, that serves as the axis, the backbone of Teruel, of Aragon and of emptied Spain. If we want our young people to take - another example - the path of entrepreneurship must be improved already from the formative process in middle education and university. We cannot have a back-to-back education system or 'encourage young people to leave their territory to engage outside. If we really want to solve the problem of housing in the villages there will have to be a specific housing plan for the rural environment, with the typologies and special aids. Again, if the Recovery Plan wants to change the development model, it will not be able to do so without changing anything. Therefore, in order to reverse this model, it is necessary to compensate the territories, for example, for being a supporter of renewable energies or for capturing CO2. Given the absence of critical mass in many of these regions, it must be the State itself that drives development projects in these territories. We cannot trust that they will contribute enough projects for their development, since there is not enough entrepreneurial mass. For example, it is an opportunity to apply positive discrimination against Spain that has been left behind, consisting of regions, rural centres and small cities. We understand that we cannot miss this opportunity, because we can change the future of this country...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u51	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u52	..., because moving forward and achieving territorial balance is to eliminate inequalities and achieve more balanced and sustainable development. And that's about rebuilding this country, that's about one of its priorities and that's about...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u54	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be given a preliminary question. Mr. Married, so the corners of our country are full of people who wanted a democracy without law. Sure, if they're there, it'll be something they did, right? What shame and indecency the statement you have made, what shame! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Congress of Deputies is much more than a formal institution. Here we make decisions that affect the lives of millions of men and women, their children, their families. Each of us represents people's longings, their problems, their fears and their dreams, the concerns and hopes of an entire country. Therefore, it does not win a debate like this which casts on the contrary the most poisonous dart or the most adventurous diatribe; it is won by those who are able to pick up the mood of the men and women to whom we owe. The debate wins, who best knows how to meet their day-to-day concerns, who strives to respond to the needs of their families, who succeeds in offering them the hope they deserve. That is why you are losing this debate, Mr Casado, as you have lost all the previous ones and how you will lose the next ones, as long as you do not abandon that desire to overthrow the government at all costs, even at the cost of damaging your own country. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, the spirit of the Spaniards has nothing to do with that catastrophic and grueling drawing that you are committed to imposing. The vast majority are concerned, yes, of course, but in their state of mind pessimism does not prevail today, but hope. The hope that the good progress of vaccination will enable us to overcome the cursed virus; the hope that the recovery of the economy will enable them to find or maintain decent work; the hope that we will overcome the old territorial conflicts in order to be able to face the new challenges of climate change, digitalisation, full equality between men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards want politicians to respond to the concerns and hopes of the Spaniards and not to the strategies and ambitions of the politicians themselves. Until you assume this, Mr. Married, you will not understand what it means to be head of the opposition. The Spanish want solutions and no conflicts; the Spanish want agreement and no disagreement; the Spanish want vaccines, employment, housing and no insults, small tables and resources of unconstitutionality. Mr. Casado, the Spaniards want hope, and you only offer them discouragement and mistrust. That is why, Mr Married, you lose all the elections and you lose all the debates. That's why Pedro Sánchez won all the debates and won all the elections. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments that remind us all of why we are here, what brought us to politics; moments that justify years of work, sacrifice and effort. On a day like today, on 30 June 2005, the Congress of Deputies approved same-sex marriage. I am sure that many of you will remember the joy and pride of that standing applause of this House and the countless hugs and tears of emotion of those outside this House, with the free will of a free people, with the votes, dialogue and agreement of those who sat in these very seats. No one has the right to tell us who we should love and no one has the right to tell us how we should love. And I know that there were those who, far from celebrating that freedom, wanted to prevent and maim it; who, far from applauding, announced plagues, apocalypse and, of course, ran to put a remedy of unconstitutionality. They are exactly the same ones that today refuse to put the rainbow flag in the City Hall of Madrid making the choirs VOX and Viktor Orbán; the same ones that announce to review the LGTBI laws in this community; the same ones that, in the face of a new extension of rights as is the law of euthanasia - a law to make us free until the last moment of our life - announce apocalypses, plagues and, of course, run to put a remedy of unconstitutionality. [[applause]] No one has the right to tell us how to live and no one has the right to tell us when to end our life and avoid suffering. Years pass, decades pass, and the right is still back there, always there, much more back than society. Just a week ago I was telling you, Mr. Married, that the moderate PP runs the risk of dying with his boss, and you are trying to give me reason in every plenary session. Seventeen leaders, many of them from their European group, have signed a document proposed and led by President Pedro Sánchez and the Luxembourg Prime Minister to reject homophobia. Mrs Merkel has stated that homophobia is incompatible with her ideas and an attack on freedom. The facts and words of the leaders of your party, Mr Casado, are not those of that European right with which you share less every day, they are those of Abascal and Viktor Orbán; they are those of an extreme right from which they flee frightened and ashamed who are still their European partners. Homophobia has no space in Europe or in Spain. A few hours ago, the Council of Ministers passed the LGTB law, a balanced law to expand rights, which protects freedom and guarantees legal certainty; a law that makes Spain a better country and a more dignified society. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is much more than Brussels or Strasbourg, than the Commission or Parliament; Europe is above all a commitment to the values of freedom, equality, respect and progress that made sense to it. When our Union was just beginning, those initial ties were called de facto solidarity; today more than ever those values and solidarity are a fact. We never react and act as a community of united and European citizens before; we react as Europeans on all fronts, from the concerted purchase of vaccines to the recovery plan, the management of movements in the Union or institutional reforms to tackle the pandemic. Europe, therefore, does not weaken us, it makes us stronger. It is not about uniting governments and states - Jean Monnet said - it is about uniting people, and that is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. I want to state from this rostrum and in this House, which represents the Spanish people, my European conviction and that of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, my confidence and that of the Socialist Party in a free, united and social Europe. Mr. Married, you have said very thick words. We have been listening to him for days to teach lessons in patriotism, even to call the Government of Spain a traitor. Look, countries, institutions, leaders, autonomous communities, entrepreneurs, trade unions, citizens and most of the parties in this House have come to grips with the worst crisis in our recent history, each one where it has been able, how it has known and with the resources that each one has. What have you done to fight the pandemic and face the crisis? Let us speak, for example, of Europe alone, in these months. We have seen you send reports to the European Union so that the funds do not reach Spain; we have seen you question the quality of democracy in Spain before our partners; you have asked your European partners to be tougher with Spain while the president was negotiating the recovery plan; you have called the European ambassadors to tell them not to trust Spain; you have manipulated national security reports to attack the government; just a few days ago you went back to Brussels to insult your country's government and to cast doubts on our ability to move forward. All this, Mr. Married, is called boycott, it is called sabotage; sabotage to your country. [[Applauds]] And no, it's not a mistake, Mr. Casado, it's a strategy; a strategy that has shines practicing, the strategy of war without barracks, of 'the worst better', and all that can have many qualifications, all that can be called in many ways, but none of them is patriotism, none of them is the defense of Spain's interest. I repeat, it is simply sabotage to 47 million Spaniards. The problem is that it's so much disproportionate, it's so much overperformance that you notice and you end up taking the colors out. You have tired of saying that this plan was a failure, but the European Commission comes and says - and I quote - that Spain's recovery plan makes a significant contribution to the country's economic recovery and to building a green, digital and inclusive future. You say that the plan makes no sense, but the Commission replies - and you mentioned - that the strategy of the Spanish Government is fully coherent in its objectives and areas. You say that the government is going to use it at its whim, and the Commission repeats - and I quote - that Spain has established an adequate structure to implement the plan and to monitor and report on progress. You say that the government is endangering the recovery, but the Commission's president comes to Spain, congratulates the government and says that with this plan Spain will emerge from the strongest crisis. You continue with your delusional obsession to compare Spain with Venezuela, Cuba and Nicaragua, but the Vice-President of the Commission points out that the Spanish development strategy is ambitious, highly relevant and an example to follow for Europe - for Europe, Mr Casado -. The Commission, the OECD, the IMF and even presidents of banks point out that Spain is going to lead Europe's growth, that we are going to be the fastest growing and most employment-creating country. But all of that doesn't matter to you because it's something else, the same thing it's been in for months, and it doesn't matter whether it's with the economy or the pandemic. They said a few months ago that the government was lying and that the vaccines would not reach within two years. Today Spain is at the head of the big vaccination economies and we can be sure that we are defeating the pandemic. To lead the Government of Spain, Mr Casado, we must defend Spain's interest above all else, but you are more busy attacking the Government than protecting the Spaniards. He says that this government is selling Spain to independence, that we betray Spain's interests. The problem, Mr Casado, is that it is not this government, or it is not just this government. In one way or another, the unions - which do not like you very much - have been in favour of pardons and dialogue, but we are going to add - the Catalan businessmen, the Spanish entrepreneurs - by the way, to which you have insulted and threatened - the Economic Circle - and we are going to continue to add - the Catalan bishops, the Spanish bishops. Also, outside Spain, we will continue to add: the Council of Europe, The New York Times, which speaks of a huge step, the French press, which speaks of a huge step and a courageous and necessary step; even the Financial Times, which has not only shown support for pardon but has added that you have done nothing to solve this problem. Mr. Married, even in your party you have been told that this you are doing is an excess. They have explicitly told you and implicitly told you, not putting their small tables in Catalonia, not signing in that failed collection of signatures or not accompanying you to that meeting of shame in Columbus, to which you were just to make VOX's companionship. [[Applauds]] And when you hear all this - employers, trade unions, bishops and institutions - you say that the others are not involved, that this is a matter for Parliament. He said that a few days ago before the businessmen. But this Parliament, Mr Casado, has already voted twice and a large majority has been in favour of opening the way for dialogue. Does this Parliament also betray Spain, Mr Casado? Where are you taking your party to? You stand alone in your extremism, that's the reality. He has the gap that VOX offers him in a shameful corner of Columbus Square, to which neither the leaders of his own party accompanied him. You're left alone in a race that's leading you to snooping and you've already come to the only thing you've missed, all of them are accomplices. That was his expression: accomplices united against you. The only thing that was missing for the whole lot, the contubernium. Conspiracy claims like that will not be heard by any European centre-right leader, but will be heard daily by leaders such as Le Pen, Salvini or Trump. But do you really believe, Mr. Casado, that there is a contubernion of the government with the parties, the unions, the employers, the Council of Europe, the Spanish bishops and even the Financial Times so that you do not get to the government? In other words, are the unions, the businessmen and the bishops breaking up Spain? Are they all enemies of Spain? Are all enemies of the Constitution less - look where - a neo-rancist party like VOX, to which you have outsourced your ideology and agenda? Who is your reference in Europe, Merkel or Orban, Macron or Le Pen? [[Applauds]] Because Merkel and Macron declare enemies of the ultras and you embrace them. Mr. Married, I think your worst enemy is yourself. And it's not that the others agree, it's that you get more and more away from where we are almost everyone. It increasingly moves away from moderation and sinks into extremism. That's why you're left alone, Mr. Married. Something does not work in your argument when where you equate the enemies of Spain we are Spanish of different origin, class, religion and even ideology and in your true Spain are only you and a Francoist party. Something does not fit in that patriotism that he speaks of so much when he does not understand that, now that the recovery of the economy and of employment is beginning to come true, what we need is more understanding and no more confrontation, more solutions of the future and no more disputes of the past. Now that we begin to see growth, what we need is more stability and no more division. You have also said these days that it is necessary for the PP to govern in order to ensure, no more or less, the historical continuity of Spain. How much he likes huge words. Again, the right to save the homeland. And on Monday he added something else, that secessionism in Catalonia has been exacerbated by the complicity of this government. To exacerbate secessionism. Two things. First, with you in the Moncloa, the independence vote went from 320 000 to 2 million votes. Today the most voted political force in Catalonia is not an independenceist party, it is the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] And second, you were given two self-determination referendums and a unilateral declaration of independence. None of this has happened with the socialist governments. If you want, we keep talking about who exacerbates everything. But let us also talk about the other, let us also talk about historical continuity. They should think about why, after the years, their party has ended up being witness or practically non-existent in some territories of Spain. You should think, Mr Casado, if you can dispense with Spain without having a presence in some areas of Spain and where that leads you. A president of the government is of all Spaniards, not of some Spaniards against others. It is good enough of that rhetoric of plots, of destruction of the homeland and betrayals, which is a copy of the worst that you have found in Europe, of the worst threat to democracy, of an extreme right of which you are committed to being the pantomime. Spain and the Spanish do not need countrymen, and less so if they are canned countrymen who shake the flag while filling their pockets with Spanish money. [[Applauds]] If you want to help Spain, ask for that corruption that does not cease in your party and that this week gives us a new parade of appearances and news, because if something runs the risk of not having continuity and stability it is not Spain, it is your position, Mr Casado. Listen to Mr. Aznar, because the man who runs his party is already looking for relief. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago this government took the lead of a torn country, a country - and I ask you to look at the front pages of the press a few years ago and remember those days - where there were only two issues in the political debate; two deeply damaging issues that occupied the entire agenda and left no room for anything else: the corruption of the PP and the crisis in Catalonia. Neither citizens' rights, nor economic reforms, nor social progress, nor the European Union, nor climate change, nor education, nor pensions, nor gender-based violence, nor youth unemployment. There was no room for that because everything was occupied by the corruption of the PP and the conflict in Catalonia. Three years later, the PP continues to plunge into confrontation with Catalonia and corruption, but Spain has a clean government, dedicated to improving the lives of the Spaniards. Three years later, the situation in Catalonia is far from those painful years and it should not be news that the head of state, the president of the government and the president of the Generalitat share table, should be part of normality, that is what it is about. Not of anything exceptional or tremendous or extraordinary, we simply aspire to regain the democratic normality of a democratic country, for which we are working, for the policy that improves things and does it with dialogue. Yes, with commitment and dialogue. And with politics and dialogue, corruption and confrontation have given way to the Climate Change Act, the Child Protection Act, the Minimum Life Income Act, the Euthanasia Act, the Education Act, the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act. With policy and dialogue, the Government and the social partners have reached an agreement to secure pensions. Do you know when the last deal was? With the Socialist Government of Zapatero. Dialogue works, so trust is built, so commitments are built, so country is built. This is how politics is done in a democracy, working to improve the lives of the Spanish and Spanish, and today what we have is a country that has faced the worst crisis in our recent history. In eighteen months, ladies and gentlemen, we have defeated the worst pandemic humanity has suffered in the last century. We have done so by trusting in science and giving research all the resources that were needed. We have done so through dialogue between governments and administrations, because that is how the problems are solved. We have done so with solidarity and responsibility. Of course, politics is worth it, of course it results. We know very well in this party because whenever Spain has needed someone to step forward the socialists we have been in the front row with courage and conviction. [[Applauds]] We did it in the Transition, we did it at the end of terrorism and we do it again now. The Socialist Party is a party with a broad memory, a memory that intertwines with freedom and democracy in Spain. With that conviction and memory, no one will ever be able to tell us that the agreement is not possible to build that fairer, more united and freer country for which we work and to which we owe ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session is suspended for five minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have resumed the sitting. Please take your seats. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech I referred to a number of matters which we consider to be of great importance to Spain: vaccination, we are getting closer and closer - as I said in that first speech - to group immunity; the severe symptoms of recovery of our economy; the imminent arrival of the European funds Next Generation European Union as a result of the approval of the plans by the Commission and now at Ecofin in mid-July. But, of course, it seems that the issue that has focused attention and also virulence - if I may say so - on the part of some groups in the House has been predictable; that is, the measures of grace linked to the prisoners of the process. I would therefore like to begin by recalling some of the facts that have been mentioned by some of the Members who have subsequently spoken in my first speech, because I think it is appropriate to remember how we have come to this situation, which - I insist once again - we have to face from politics. Since 2012, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed different sequences that made us live first Mariano Rajoy and Artur Mas, from the demand of a fiscal pact to reaching the republic yes or yes. From the proposal for a fiscal pact to independence, of course, there is a long way, a long way. That path should never have gone - I believe and believe that it could be most of your lordships agree - and I want to make it clear from the beginning, as I did in my first intervention, that the most responsible were the independence leaders; all those who took that drift contrary to the law - I have always said, in the opposition and in the government -; all those who offered Catalan citizenship a false illusion to my personal opinion; all those who faced Catalans against Catalans and overthrew from the institutions the rights of those who did not share their dream that then became, unfortunately, a nightmare. But, although these have been the most responsible to go this way, the fact is that in recent years, in recent years, the Spanish Government has done very little to prevent it: neither to listen to nor to dialogue nor to protect the Spanish reputation abroad nor to offer solutions, proposals or answers to the demands of a non-minor part of Catalan citizenship. Nothing, except to stir up feelings and emotions and respond to flags with more flags. Or rather, he did something else, ladies and gentlemen. He did something else to remember from this rostrum, Mr. Married: to activate an infamous patriotic police outside the law that, while covering up his own crimes, fabricated other real or imaginary against his political opponents. [[Applauds]] So let's remember some of the facts that answer the question why we are where we are. The so-called process began in 2012 and on that date, I think I remember, ruled the People's Party. We agree, don't we? Did he govern the People's Party? We agree. In December 2012, Artur Mas, who was president of the Generalitat, sealed a government pact with Oriol Junqueras and pledged to hold a self-determination consultation in Catalonia. He ruled the People's Party. In January 2014, the Parliament of Catalonia asked Congress to hand over its powers in order to hold an independent referendum, which was rejected. He ruled the People's Party. In September 2014, the Catalonian Parliament passed the Catalonian Consultation Act, which was suspended by the Constitutional Court. He ruled the People's Party. The so-called participatory process on the future of Catalonia was held on 9 November 2014. He was summoned by the then president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Artur Mas, on the margins of legality and with the opposition of the Government of Spain. It participated in around 37% of Catalan citizenship and, at that time, there was no police intervention or any other intervention to prevent it. He ruled the People's Party. Early autonomic elections were held in September 2014. He won a new independence coalition called Junts pel Yes and, for the first time in history, the parties that promote independence in Catalonia won the majority in the Catalan Parliament. He ruled the People's Party. In November 2011, 28% of Catalans expressly wanted independence; in November 2013, 48%, according to the Catalan CIS. In September 2017 the Parliament of Catalonia passed the Law of the referendum of self-determination, then suspended by the Constitutional Court. He ruled the People's Party. In September 2017 the so-called - nothing more and nothing less - Law on Legal and Foundational Transition of the Catalan Republic was also approved in the Parliament of Catalonia. He ruled the People's Party. It goes ahead with a small minority, ladies and gentlemen; a small minority that would neither allow the director of Catalan television to be appointed nor the syndic of heaviness in Catalonia to be appointed, let alone to promote a reform of the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy. He ruled the People's Party. On October 1, 2017, the independence referendum was held, which was convened by the then President of the Generalitat, Carles Puigdemont; an illegal referendum, according to the Constitutional Court. He ruled the People's Party. The Government of the People's Party said there would be no ballot boxes and there would be ballot boxes; it said there would be no violence and the image of Spain was damaged all over the world. On 27 October 2017, the unilateral declaration of independence was approved in the Parliament of Catalonia and Mariano Rajoy applied article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, with the express support of the Socialist Party for the gravity of the situation. And between February and June 2019 the trial was held. What has happened since then is well known to all and to all, ladies and gentlemen. We are where we are and these are the facts. I did not even want to go back to prehistory, that is, to the adoption of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and to the appeal lodged by the People's Party before the Constitutional Court, which today claims the main opposition party. I also did not want to go back to the small tables - which have now resumed and seem to have been interrupted - and which, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, are tables that incite hatred and discord among Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I have not referred, ladies and gentlemen, to the boycott you made of Catalan products, which began from the most hormonal right-wing spaces. [[Applauds]] In that appeal that you submitted to the Constitutional Court - let us recall - articles that are in force in the autonomous statutes of the Valencian Community and also of Andalusia were being challenged and that had been voted and approved by those autonomous parliaments with the support of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court does its job and does it well, but the hypocrisy and bad faith with which the right has acted in the statutory challenges leaves no doubt. [[Rumors]] In other words, let us speak clearly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, there are powers and statutory articles which appear to the right of this country in Catalonia to be unconstitutional and in other territories to be perfectly constitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, in July 2017 I met with the then President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, to talk about this matter and realized that everything was exactly the same as when I first spoke to him in 2014. All the same, except that the positions had been found in Catalonia and coexistence there had begun to poison itself. In 2014 I proposed that we should open a dialogue in the Constitutional Commission of the Congress; look, open a subcommission in the Constitutional Commission of the Spanish Parliament to start discussing a reform of the Spanish Constitution. I'm not saying approve anymore, I'm just saying debate. Why don't you talk and talk here, at the national headquarters? Obviously, the People's Party, which at that time had an absolute majority -186 seats - completely ignored this proposal of the Socialist Party, which I not only did, but also those old socialists to whom you repeatedly refer in order to try to criticize today's Socialist Party. I will repeat that proposal in 2017, ladies and gentlemen: to open a committee, a meeting space, so that all the parliamentary forces could talk, talk and discuss how to reform our autonomous model and the territorial cohesion that was being called into question by the independence forces. I believe that this proposal would have allowed the People's Party government - I humbly believe it - to move ahead with the threat of October 1, 2017, but there was never that space for dialogue. What was the government's action then? No proposal, no alternative. Ladies and gentlemen, in August 2017 I met again with the then President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy. I transferred to him that the Constitution is unbreakable and that, therefore, the Socialist Party was going to oppose any illegal consultation or unilateral referendum. When Article 155 of our Constitution was negotiated, the Socialist Party was unconditionally behind the government. You know why? Because the Socialist Party will always defend the social and democratic state of law unequivocally, always and with loyalty, we are in the opposition or in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the only party that contributed with the same acronyms that we have today to the drafting of the 1978 democratic Constitution, so... [[Applauds]] The Constitution is a fundamental part of our legacy, of the legacy of the Socialist Party, and with the same emphasis with which we defend it, of course, we also claim the spirit of democratic agreement with which it was created and accepted by all Spanish and Spanish. In my opinion, discord has no place in the Spanish Constitution. To deny bread and salt, as some speakers say that these or those parliamentary groups are not legitimate or that the Government of Spain is not legitimate, which emanates precisely from the sovereign will of this House and, therefore, from the vote of the Spanish people, seems not to me to be part of the Spanish Constitution. The search for reunion, coexistence and harmony, obviously, yes. Mr. Married, speaking of the Constitution and the past, you have said serious things today. He said in this rostrum that the Civil War was - and I quote his words literally - 'between those who defended democracy without law and those who defended the law without democracy'. That's what you said here today, this morning. I'll tell you something to hold him back and explain it to yours, Your Honor. The only legitimate law is democratic law. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Therefore, I hope you go up now and retract your words. Never again - never again - can there be law in Spain without democracy and democracy without law. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress make affirmative signs.- Rumors]] Perhaps those who did so against the law and against democracy were raised, because the only legitimate law is the law of democracy and then it was the law of the Second Republic, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] You speak of the Court of Auditors and say - you say so many things and you say them so quickly! - that you block the renewal of the constitutional bodies, also of the Court of Auditors, so that Spain does not become Venezuela or Nicaragua. But where do you live, Your Honor? Really, where do you live? Do you really believe that? Do you really believe that, Your Honor? Is it really believed that in Spain we live as in Nicaragua or Venezuela? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u58	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u59	I don't know, it seems to me that, even being able to be right in one of your criticisms, he loses this opposition so furious that he's been doing so much time. And less bad that you were the moderate. Anyway,... [[Laughter]] Let us talk about the Court of Auditors, Your Honor, which is dealing with dossiers that affect a large number of political positions and officials of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The position of the Government of Spain has been expressed publicly and I repeat it here today in the rostrum. The Court of Auditors continues to work on these dossiers, which, by the way, are not yet settled, and I therefore do not know very well why you have to lay down a position before the Court of Auditors decides. Against the decision of the Court of Auditors - when it happens - we can appeal to the courts - this is the status, Your Honor - and, therefore, what I ask you, Mr Casado, is maximum institutional respect for the work of the Court of Auditors. [[Mrs. Hoyo Juliá: Apply yourself!-Rumors]] I see them very participatory and it's okay, it's okay. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u61	Mr Casado, you have raised the issue of how much you respect the Court of Auditors, because you become the stronghold of the Court of Auditors, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and, thanks to you, Spain is not going to become Venezuela or Nicaragua. And therefore, you fail to fulfil the constitutional mandate to renew these constitutional bodies. I do not know if the argument is well blocked, I do not know if it is credible, Your Honor, but it does not cease to be, at least, surprising. This same month, Your Honor, the terms of office of the members of the Court of Auditors expire and, as required by the Constitution, we have an obligation to renew them. We have an obligation to renew them under that Constitution to which you always refer. Will the People's Party facilitate the renewal of the Court of Auditors? Or are you going to oppose his renewal with the umpteenth excuse to justify his blockade? Will you continue to block the renewal of constitutional bodies? Are you going to accept the People's Party at some point that the Constitution obliges us all - ladies and gentlemen, everyone, also the People's Party when it is in opposition - to renew these bodies? If you continue with the blockade, also of the Court of Auditors, we could all infer, ladies and gentlemen, a rather obvious conclusion, and that is that you preside over a party that fails to comply with the Constitution every day. They don't do as much as they say they do. [[Applauds]] I conclude this paragraph with a question which has been asked by some other speakers and which seems to me to be correct, Your Honor. You talk about depoliticization. How, then, is it possible for a former minister of José María Aznar to be the one who solves the Court of Auditors' files? What do you mean, what do you say to me? But he's your representative from the Court of Auditors! Man! You get into a garden alone, Your Honor,... [[Monsieur Casado Blanco: What do you say to me?]] [[Laughter and applause]] [[Laughter]] You also talk about Catalonia, the law, the Constitution and you have told me about the unity of Spain, the sacrosanct unity of Spain. I don't see Spain breaking up, Your Honor, and I've been ruling for three years. [[Rumors]] In 2017 there was a possibility when you ruled and you, by the way, didn't go very far, because you were precisely the spokesman of the People's Party at the time. Beyond that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, do you really have a solution for Catalonia? You have come here to say something very serious, although you say so many serious things: Venezuela, Nicaragua,...! You have come to say - or have I misunderstood you? - that your proposal is to promote an article 155 sine die in Catalonia. That is what I have understood you, Mr. Married, that is what I have understood you. Finally, you will like to see yourself as heroes, because you are always the heroes, but you, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group reminded you, have practically disappeared from Catalonia. Anyone realizes that they use Catalonia as a kind of currency, they play with fire, with the feelings of millions of Catalans to collect a supposed sad harvest of votes in the rest of Spain, and it is to be seen that this is so, Your Honor. You speak of the law, of the law with capitals, and, yes, you must respect the law, but, while all the newscasters already have every day a section dedicated to the crimes of the leaders of the People's Party in which they parade ministers of José María Aznar, ministers of Mariano Rajoy, the presumed ones responsible for having machined a gigantic network of corruption - the Gürtel network - in order to invalidate the Public Finance and distribute themselves outstanding. Yesterday, the former secretary general of the People's Party, María Dolores de Cospedal, and you do not even open up a file to Mrs De Cospedal. What do you have to hide? What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? What are you afraid of? [[Mr Casado Blanco, Mr García Egea and several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress point to the President of the Government.-Rumores.-Applause]] You speak of the law when one day you and another also feel a bit of a sham, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, when you check the level of descarcation to which you came in the run-up to the law when you ruled, and you come up with a machine for espionage and police persecution of your political opponents to erase the evidence of endemic corruption from your leaders. You speak of the Constitution and refuse something as elementary as fulfilling what the Constitution itself commands, which is to renew the constitutional bodies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u62	I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u63	And they make up one pretext after another just so they don't bow to the indisputable fact that they have neither a social majority nor a majority in this House. Finally, you speak of the unity of Spain, of good and bad Spaniards, of constitutionalists and of eraras. Mr Casado, do not insult the intelligence of the Spaniards; do not really insult the intelligence of the Spaniards, I ask you with all the respect I have for your group, your party and you. Do not give us any lessons of commitment to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party or to me on the fight against terrorism, peace and the end of violence; do not do so. [[Applauds]] The project of the People's Party for Catalonia is nothing absolute. Neither today nor in all these weeks when you have been talking about pardons, nor, unfortunately, in the last ten years we have heard a single proposal for Catalonia, none. I have heard, yes, from her former parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, who maintains that what needs to be done in Catalonia is to strengthen the constitutional state; man, less evil! [[Mrs. Álvarezde Toledo Peralta-Ramos: Yes!]] Ah, you're letting her come, Your Honor? Good. [[Laughter and applause]] Welcome. Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo presented herself in Barcelona; she was chosen by her hair, but she was elected, and followed the path of Mrs. Arrimadas. He left to defend the Constitution to the Square of Columbus and the one who stood defending the Constitution in Catalonia has name and surnames, ladies and gentlemen: his name is Salvador Illa and he is of the Catalan Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that for the People's Party - and this is one of the serious problems that our political system has and it is not a minor issue - Catalonia is not a question of state, it is a question of party. And this is not a play on words, because it is something that our democratic system resents and certainly coexistence. I have told you on some private occasion, Mr Casado, but I also tell you in public that I am deeply sorry. As a result you have not understood Catalonia as a matter of state and yes as a matter of party, to see if with the pimpampum you get more votes in other parts of Spain, you do not represent the Catalans; you do not represent the Catalan independenceists, of course, but neither do the constitutionalists. How many councillors does the People's Party have in Catalonia? How many Members of the People's Party are in the Chamber representing the constituency or the constituencies of Catalonia? How many Members of the People's Party were elected in the last autonomous elections, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Married, how can you come here to speak on behalf of the Catalan constitutionalists when you do not represent them? If you don't represent them! If they don't vote for him! [[Applauds]] And you don't vote for him because you don't have a proposal for Catalonia. Your proposal for Catalonia, what is it? The stick? You, rather than resolving the conflict, want to feed on it. That is why you have not responded to something that the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group asked you earlier, and that is why you did not take the small tables to Catalonia to ask for signatures against pardons in Catalonia. [[Mr. Lorite Lorite: We'll take you to the squares!-Rumors]] If you have listened to me from the beginning you will have been able to recognise - I hope - that your strategy in Catalonia led to independence and was unsuccessful even for the electoral interests of the People's Party itself. There are many barbarities that you repeat these days, and you have also said them again here, as well as Mr Abascal. They come to say something like that pardons are contrary to the law - contrary to the Constitution, you have come to say - and that is why it announces the People's Party's appeal on the measures of grace. If I may, this is contrary to the law, who told you, Mr. Married? Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz? [[Laughter]] Did Mrs. De Cospedal advise you on legal matters? I think it's good that you're against the pardons... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u64	Mr. Alonso Pérez, I ask for silence, please, and respect.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u65	I believe that respect, Madam President, is more important than silence. I don't care about silence, but respect does, Your Honor. Here there are disqualifications and insults that seem unacceptable to me, Madam President. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it seems to me good that you are against pardons and have all the reservations. I understand it, I respect it and I have nothing to add. I have already said before that I understand well many Spaniards and also many Catalans who have reservations about this measure, but let us discuss in the field of rationality. We contrast arguments, we discuss it in the field of politics, we talk about pros and cons, but don't question the biggest, don't question the capacity of the Spanish government to take grace measures, because that's something that all the executives have been doing since the beginning of democracy. Mr. Married, you don't have social support. In fact, all the initiatives that have led in this matter have found a great wall. I start, for example, by collecting signatures. Secondly, his photo of Columbus, which on this occasion is true that he has come out more moved than ever and with less companions. In addition, they tried something important and quite serious in my opinion, which is that the king of Spain, Philip VI, would also copy in that photo, which once again demonstrates the ignorance of the People's Party of the basic mechanisms of our parliamentary monarchy. You no longer respect the king of Spain, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, the motion rejected by the House on 16 June. The People's Parliamentary Group, as you know, brought a motion not to pardon Catalan prisoners and was rejected by a very large majority, 190 Members. I thank you, because this has also reinforced the motivation of pardons in the dossiers. Finally, he has also turned his back on his lordships the Senate, but not only the Senate, but also businessmen, bishops, civil society, trade unions, parliaments... They don't think like you. Are they also enemies of the homeland, traitors, accomplices of those who want to break Spain? The further away you are, the greater the volume of the screams, the greater the hyperboles, the greater the exaggerations. Why don't you two calm down a little bit and give the reunion a chance? What's more, why don't you join that rendezvous agenda? I recognize that understanding your equation during these three years costs, Mr. Married, but at least I think we've already begun to understand where you're going. You invoke the Constitution at every moment, but every time you can skip the Constitution. In fact, you systematically fail to comply with Article 112 of Title VI of our Constitution by again obstructing the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. You often violate respect for the diverse, free territorial entities, to the attention of the legal, political and linguistic singularities recognized in our Constitution. You liquidated the constitutional values of reconciliation, of understanding, of concord when you ignore half of the Catalan citizenship that does not think like us and violate the spirit of concord of the Constitution when you enter speeches that exalt confrontation. And they also seem to have doubts about some articles, such as article 62, which expressly speaks of requests for grace. Finally, you have doubts about pardons when you are not in the government, because when you are in the government, pardons proliferate and also pardoned ones pulsate through the public space in Spain. Now, by the way, you are going to appeal - you have already announced - against the law on euthanasia, an appeal that I am convinced you are going to lose in the Constitutional Court. Now, it seems to me good that they do so, ladies and gentlemen, that they bring this action, firstly because it is their right and, secondly, because they are portrayed before the Spanish public once again. [[Applauds]] This week we celebrate the LGTB pride, we celebrate the adoption of the preliminary draft law LGTBI, we also celebrate many other laws that we are taking forward and which have been referred to here by different stakeholders. But, Mr. Married, in the end, you have no convictions or your only conviction we could say that it is the power [[Rumors]] The opposition to those laws, ladies and gentlemen, lasts what you last in the opposition. When they come to the government, they love divorce and divorce without fear. As soon as they reach the Government, abortion becomes well-seen and they get their hands on it when it suits them. As soon as they reach the government, the family does not break up or become dangerous, the homosexual marriage is formidable, they make use of this marriage, even without any reticence, and believe me that I say it without criticism. I welcome you because, although you believe that you do not, Mr. Married, I also wish your happiness and that of your party partners. Anyway, what's the problem? The problem is this, the problem is that, when you are not in the government, the canteen is always the same: go away, Mr Gonzalez! Go away, Mr. Zapatero! Go away, Mr. Sanchez! [[Applauds]] If you win the elections, the elections are legitimate; if you lose them, they are illegitimate. If you remain the first, you must govern the most voted list; if you remain behind, the alliances, of course, are legitimate. And so we have the other parties bend to the logic of alliances. When the Socialist Party wins, it does not inflame the autonomous parliaments, for example, invoking the illegitimacy of governments of losers, as you do. [[Rumors]] Finally, I would like to recall that the Socialist Party of Catalonia won the elections in Catalonia on 14 February and, by the way, has not questioned the legitimacy of an independentist government in the Catalan Parliament. But you don't do that, ladies and gentlemen, you never do that. The first and only article of its version of the Constitution is as follows: It is constitutional only that which allows the People's Party to gain power and remain in power, the rest must be declared unconstitutional, and we note it, by the way, in the notebook. I mean, they take note of the purest marathonist style of who was their boss and friend, Mr. Aznar. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really not get tired of being right all the time? Don't they get tired of always being right? The rest of us are getting tired of you always being right. [[Applauds]] Present all the resources you want, present the motion of censure to which Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Abascal urge you. Finally, all I beg of you is that, please, do not take over Spain, do not take over the Constitution, do not take over the Head of State, do not take over the flag, do not take over the reason. In the meantime, the Spanish Government is going to do, together with the social organizations, the civil organizations of all kinds, which have shown themselves, by the way, in favour of dialogue and are good Spaniards, good Catalans, as well as you, ladies and gentlemen, is to put on the table solutions for Catalonia to function, offering a decisive space for the reunion. I think it is important that hope, understanding, meeting, ladies and gentlemen, is very important - Mrs Lastra has said - at this moment. We live at a time when citizens want politics to be useful, provide solutions, let us put aside the cries, the insults, the eternal reproaches, let us leave this comfort zone in which it seems that some of your ladies and gentlemen have settled and let us try to find ourselves, because I believe that we are playing a lot and because, fortunately, we have a great opportunity to renew our economy and give an impetus to the coexistence, social progress and social and territorial cohesion of our country. Mr. Abascal, many things I've just said to Mr. Married are worth to you but squared, because you're like PP squared. You are taking up the debate on the motion of censure again. I am not very clear whether you are going to present it or not: before, in July, in August, in September, I do not know. You're talking about Mr. Married, I don't know if it came out a little rough from the outcome of the last motion of censure. [[Applauds]] What else can I tell you? If we can't talk about the solution in Catalonia! Mr. Abascal, what solution do you have for Catalonia? That of General Espartero, which must be bombed, for the sake of Spain, every fifty years Barcelona? That's what General Espartero said. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: What a level!]] It is curious that you tell me to go level, and, instead, applaud Mr Abascal, with the things he has said about Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Many times, when I listen to you, Mr Abascal, with all that testosterone that you express when you come up to the rostrum, I wonder what Spain means to you. And I seriously wonder, because the word "Spain" does not fall from your mouth to you or to your fellow religious. But, finally, I have the feeling that you believe that it is possible to continue talking about this country which is called Spain in the same way as it was half a century ago or a century ago, now that you have even said that this government is not the worst in Spain in the last eighty years, but even more back. Finally, what a lack of knowledge you have of the history of Spain, Mr Abascal. Resting those who do not think like you, exclude those who are not like you, proposing to punish and illegalize all those who do not think like you, with the connivance and complicity, unfortunately, of the People's Party, I believe that what you do is claim a past that, fortunately, in Spain will never return. I understand that you do not understand why this Government has granted pardons. I understand that, Your Honor, I respect that, because you do not understand what the word "concordia" means or what the word "dialogue" means, and I am convinced that, on the other hand, you understand well what the word "repression" means. Those of you understand them well. [[Applauds]] You're very Spanish. On the other hand, its MEPs are voting against the approval of the European reconstruction fund. They have made it difficult to recover mobility in Europe, knowing that the instruments being negotiated were the only realistic way to ensure the progressive opening of borders. They demand greater control over the funds, but at the same time they are rejecting European taxation and further progress in the defence of the rule of law in Europe. Therefore, what do you actually defend, ladies and gentlemen? What have you done positive to help get through this pandemic situation in Spain? Because we do not forget that they opposed, as you have rightly said, the instruments of the state of alarm, for example, to save lives, to defend public health in our country; they said no. They have voted against the whole social network that we have set up and that, if it had not been approved, of course, with millions of workers, hundreds of thousands of companies would have broken down. Anyway, what's your contribution, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? I believe that there is one Spain that wants to transform itself and another that resists change, and this is typical of societies. There is a society that wants to transform, that wants to move forward, that wants to look forward, and there is another that is not, that is afraid of change, that prefers even involution, as you represent. And on your position, Your Honor, I thank you, at least, for being clear on this matter. You, for example, are negators of climate change, you are negators of gender reason, you are negators and even stigmatize identity and sexual orientation. It is true that one day you came up and said that VOX is a party that defends the rights of gays, lesbians and transsexuals. You speak of a progressive agenda, as you call it precisely that common agenda of the twenty-seven countries that have decided to move towards a more sustainable, innovative and just society. Three days ago - the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said earlier - was celebrated the Day of the LGTB Pride in our country, this Saturday will take place in Madrid a great march of celebration, to which, by the way, its municipal group in the City Council of Madrid opposes. It was held here and also in Europe that day and our society, of course, I believe it is committed to the unhindered development of the identity of each of its citizens, including, logically, sexual orientation and gender identity. None of the reactionary measures that you propose to change assignments will prevent us from continuing to combat such discrimination. I say this to you because at the last European Council, as Mrs Lastra said earlier, there was a unanimous rejection by all the leaders, at least most of the European leaders, of the discriminatory laws that Hungary intends to implement. You have approved them, and in an interesting way, Your Honor, what they do is mix pedophilia with homosexuality, with prostitution, with propaganda; in the end, you can imagine the barbarity that all this represents. You call yourselves patriots, but I think you are not, because patriotism is not in great words or in great gestures or carrying a flag on the wrist or even on the mask, how you carry each time you come here. Patriotism is civicism, which is shown every day with a public service vocation by holding hands to help public institutions and defend citizens in this Parliament also against the virus, to overcome definitively the pandemic, the economic, social crisis that has been provoked. And, no doubt also, do not question, how you question here and in Europe, you support Orban, precisely the rights of a minority as important as the LGBT minority. We have much to do in this legislature, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot stop and explain to you and to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group what the mechanisms set out in our Constitution are. Check it out thoroughly, get up to speed. Finally, I believe that the Spanish are far above the permanent confrontation that you always try to throw away with your words from this rostrum. I think it would be interesting for you to listen to the Spanish, much more than you do, because Spanish citizens want to live in peace, they want to move forward. Listen to the entrepreneurs, listen to the Episcopal Conference, listen to how they recognize dialogue as a formula precisely to restore coexistence in Catalonia. If the spokesman for the Episcopal Conference said so: the Constitution is not a dogma, Mr Abascal, it is a territory on which to operate in favor of coexistence and territorial cohesion in our country. I'd like to tell you something more about the homeland, just as a last thought. I don't conceive of the homeland if we're not all included in it. [[Applauds]] The only ones who trample on the Constitution, those who betray their spirit, those who break the consensus in Spain between reality and their false ideas about this country, unfortunately, are you. They do it when they don't assume that Spain is the way it is, and not as you say it is, because they don't really love Spain the way it is, and that's their problem. And I say to him, They lose it, they lose to love Spain. And remember the words of a philosopher, Julián Marías, who said that Spain is the most intelligible country in Europe, but that people strive not to understand it. That's you, Mr. Abascal. Mr Asens, I want to thank you for what you say about Hungary. Obviously, we, together with the Luxembourg Government, lead an unprecedented initiative in the European Council, and it was precisely a letter to which we subsequently joined around seventeen Member States in demanding the commitment of all countries and also of the European Union - because, after all, we are more than a sum of Member States, but we are also a sum of Member States - with diversity, tolerance and, of course, with respect for LGBTI minorities. I will tell you that we are not going to fall into the mistake of identifying Hungarian society with its government. I think Spanish society was much better than, for example, Mariano Rajoy's government when he was sitting on the blue bench. But, in any case, the Commission has already sent a letter precisely requiring the extremes of the laws that have been passed linked to this issue so that we can start this procedure for the defence of the rule of law in the European Union. On vaccines and patents, I would like to remind you that Europe is right now the continent that is giving the most doses of vaccines to third countries, we are above 240 million doses. In Spain we say this not only with words but with facts: 22.5 million doses in 2021. We have transferred EUR 50 million to the Gavi mechanism precisely to put an end to the financial gap it is suffering and, of course, we have made a proposal within the European Union, as I said before, not only to liberalise patents, but to increase the production capacity of the vaccine. I have said this on some other occasion from this rostrum: Humanity must be vaccinated against COVID-19. And right now, in order to achieve that urgent and important goal, we have to produce around 11 billion doses a year on the planet, and we are far from achieving that figure. It is therefore imperative that we can raise patents and speed up everything that has to do with the distribution and transfer of knowledge and technology in order to increase production capacities. On pardons, I thank you for your support. Indeed, I agree with you that it demonstrates the strength of Spanish democracy. I thank you for the courage of the Government of Spain. I also thank you for recognizing the sense of state we are having. I think it is the main criticism that we can make to the Spanish right in our country, that Catalonia does not take it as a matter of state, it is taken as a party matter. Let's use Catalonia as a pimpampum, see if I can get more votes in other parts of Spain. And so it goes to them in Catalonia and so it goes to us throughout the country, because, obviously, this is a wound that we cannot close, precisely also because they prevail from a non-minor part of Spanish society, to which we respect logically, discourses more plagued with discord than with coexistence and agreement. About Catalonia, I have to tell you that no one is persecuted in our democracy for defending their ideas, no one. When you talk about de-judicialization, I understand it as returning to politics a conflict that is political. But, of course, I cannot escape the abuse that can be made of certain legal instruments by political parties or institutional representatives who are now linked to independence. That is the social and democratic rule of law that we have. I therefore believe that this is also important. Where I don't agree with you is when you say that the autonomous state has lost its validity. I believe that precisely this pandemic has shown that the autonomous state works, with its difficulties, with its shortcomings, with its weaknesses, but also with enormous strengths. I think that if you speak, for example, with an extremist, or speak with an Andalusian or speak with a canary, now that we are listening to some of the criticisms being made by the nationalist parties in the Canary Islands, they will tell you that, thanks to the autonomous state, thanks to the decentralization of many competences, opportunities and well-being have been created in places where, with a centralist state, of course, they refused, and I am not referring only to the black past of the dictatorship. What we can do, and I agree with you, is improve to strengthen that autonomous state. I know that independence does not like to talk about the autonomous state because what it wants is a regime of bilaterality between an autonomous community and the central government; by the way, bilaterality that, when autonomous statutes were renewed, all autonomous communities have it. The other day I met, for example, with the president of the Junta de Andalucía, he called for the creation of the bilateral Commission Junta de Andalucía-Government of Spain and we are going to set it up, as we have set up so many others in other parts of the State. What do I mean by that? I sincerely believe that one of the main challenges we have is more about how we improve multilateral cooperation spaces. I believe that the Government is doing well to push forward the Conferences of Presidents, which we will have in July. I believe that the paradigm of all this governance that we have considered is the Interterritorial Conference on Health, which we report every week from the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Territorial Policy. In short, Mr Asens, I believe that one of the main lessons that we have to draw from our very convulsive Spanish history is that democracy and the recognition of territorial diversity and, therefore, the decentralization of these competences go hand in hand. There can be no strong democracy in Spain if there is no decentralization, if there is no express recognition of that territorial diversity. The fact is that independence wants something different, it does not want the recognition of territorial diversity. He wants to create a new state outside the Spanish state, and that is the huge discrepancy we have with independence. But, as far as the autonomic model is concerned, I believe that what we need to strengthen and review much more are all the multilateral mechanisms for shaping decision-making, even when some of these historical nationalities talk about how to improve the participation, presence and dialogue that Euskadi, Catalonia and other communities may have with the community institutions. Finally, I agree with you, although I always miss your words, Your Honor, something important, and I recognize everything you have said, and I did not take it as a criticism, because I think it is important that both the commons and the Socialist Party of Catalonia say to independence in Catalonia that they have to open a dialogue table also in Catalonia, because what cannot be done is to invisibilize a non-minor part of Catalan sovereignty that does not commune with the independence theses, and therefore I believe that we are called to represent them, because, of course, what is here on the right is what it represents. I think we also have that duty. I believe that the Catalan parties that we are part of this coalition government have a duty to represent them. Indeed, I share with you that we must look forward and that a non-minor part of Catalan citizenship wants to overcome this crisis, repair and live together. It is curious, and I said this in my first speech, that there is always much talk about the fact that most Spanish citizens are against pardons. I believe that the question is wrong, that is my view, because one cannot ask about the instrument, one has to ask about the purpose for which certain fully constitutional instruments are used. [[Protests]] Yeah, it's true. I give you my opinion. I know I'm not going to convince you: you're always right, forgive yourselves, forgive the rest of us never to be right. [[Applauds]] If we go to Catalonia, the percentage of Catalans and Catalans who are in favor of these grace measures is overwhelming. There are a lot of people who felt attacked, raped, raped. I say this because, when, for example, Mrs Arrimadas speaks by giving lessons to the Socialist Party on the commitment to Catalonia, Your Honor, here who defended in 2017 precisely the legality and the Constitution were the mayors and councillors and councillors of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Finally, what I want to say to you about Catalan society, and in a non-minor percentage, ladies and gentlemen - the people of VOX in Catalonia, yes - is that, for example, I have not heard anyone from the People's Party in Catalonia standing at the extremes on which Mr Casado is standing. For something it will be, maybe because they listen to Catalans. But what have the Catalans told us all these years, Your Honor, think, vote for independenceist formulas or non-independenceist options? We need to take this step of pardons, of the measures of grace to repair, overcome and live together. And that's something that Catalans have also told the whole of Spanish society: We understand your repairs, but we need to start over and start over. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that with the majority support given by this House, with more than 190 seats, to the request not to pardon made by the People's Parliamentary Group, we are also reflecting that understanding of the whole of Spanish citizenship towards our compatriots in Catalonia, who want to overcome 2017 and live in peace and be able to talk about politics around a table in their homes. [[Applauds]] I agree with Mr Rufián: pardons are not the solution, in which we agree. We do not agree that you say that the ideas in Spanish democracy are being pursued, I cannot agree with that, Your Honor. I'm sorry, but I can't agree with that. [[A Member of Parliament: Cheer up!]] I don't miss it, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u67	I believe, Mr Rufián, that in order to make more credible his will for dialogue he could tell the President of the Generalitat, Mr Aragonès, to open a dialogue table also three Catalans in Catalonia. You say it's Parliament. Of course, and here is Parliament too. If we had followed the same logic, we would not have created a dialogue table between Governments. But it is clear that we need to talk and that we need to talk in Catalonia. We have set up a public meeting agenda with forty-four real issues. I think this is very important, forty-four real issues. It is a committed study of the successive demands that various governments of the Generalitat of Catalonia - by the way, of independence - had made over the last few years to the central government, I think it is a good way to start the way. Now, if we talk about self-determination and amnesty, obviously the route is what it is. That is why I am talking about the principle of reality, Your Honor, and I think it is much smarter for everyone, because it is also what Catalans deserve. The Catalans and the Spanish society as a whole deserve it: not to repeat or reiterate the positions we had in 2017, but to move forward, to overcome that situation, to do politics, as you said on social networks. And to do politics is not to settle in the maximalist positions of one or the other: it is precisely to risk what the right has done with this coalition government, to risk one being called a traitor; those who oppose precisely any kind of coexistence, any kind of agreement, any kind of dialogue. [[Applauds]] Mrs Noguera, about the fugitives in Belgium, I believe that in 2017 Spain learned a lesson about the misadjustment of our Criminal Code in relation to sedition offences in relation to other criminal codes in European countries. [[ccccccccc]] We are working, I have announced it here: my commitment, my intention, my political will is to learn from what happened in 2017 and, therefore, see if we can update this crime in the Penal Code. But, of course, the Government of Spain has 155 seats. Those are the seats we have, Your Honor. I therefore do not see that there is a parliamentary majority. Of course, there is the bench of the right and the right. Finally, this debate is a major one, but not to bring it into line with the most democraticly consolidated countries. Our will persists, we want to do so and I think it can be good for Spanish democracy. Unfortunately, there is no political consensus in this Parliament. But I think that when you talk to penalists of any kind, of any ideological court, you are aware that we have a Criminal Code in this absolutely outdated matter. But, back to what you say about the fugitives, I remind you that there is a counselor who left Spain and has recently returned, who is former advisor Serret. So I think it's pretty clear what everyone has to do. On the referendum, you know my opinion, and therefore I cannot say much more there either. I honestly believe that Catalonia has to talk to Catalonia, that you have to make it look at it, Your Honor, because you propose the breakdown of coexistence in Catalonia without even having a parliamentary majority in Parliament to change the status of autonomy or to pass a new electoral law in Catalonia. Finally, you are talking about the report of the Council of Europe. What does the Council of Europe say? He says a lot of very interesting things. It seems that you only read the things you are interested in, but the Council of Europe says interesting things in its report. He says, for example, that a process of dialogue must be opened between Catalans respecting the Spanish Constitution, and he describes Spanish democracy as a vibrant democracy that respects the political pluralism of our society. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if you want us to make the report of the Council of Europe a reality, to foster that dialogue between Catalan society in accordance with the Constitution, as that resolution says. Mr Bel, on one of the things you are commenting on, in fact, the bilateral committee is going to meet in July and there are public investments that we need to put in place. On European funds, I think this is a trick, if I may say so, not so much of you as of Mrs Noguera, who has not stopped criticising that European funds are going to go to Ibex, when it turns out that the Economics Advisor of the Government of the Government of Catalonia is a person who, precisely, comes from one of the big companies in Ibex. [[ccccccccc]] Green stuff, right? In any case, there is no doubt that the European funds will reach small and medium-sized enterprises, such as ICO credits, EUR 120 billion which we have put at 90% in the hands of small and medium-sized enterprises. You say Catalonia could be plural if it wasn't for Spain. I believe that Catalonia cannot be understood without the rest of the country, without the rest of Spain, and neither can Spain be understood without Catalonia. Therefore, that is where we have to meet and where, logically, we have to find that point of balance, of coexistence that our fellow citizens deserve in Catalonia and throughout the country. Mr Errejón, I would like to thank you for your appreciation of the LGTBI law. On pardons, I also thank you for saying that, in fact, this is a first step that is recognized to normalize political life in Catalonia. On the updating of the Mental Health Strategy, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is going to present its first draft to the Autonomous Communities this July and, therefore, we are fulfilling our commitments, with which we look when we have been asked about this issue. Whether this is a green government or not, I believe that this is a government that has shown with the facts that it is a very green government, but a very green one. A climate change law, a national energy and climate strategy, a circular economy strategy, a hydrogen strategy, a fair transition strategy, 40% of European funds linked to green investments, one hundred percent of all investments that do not harm the environment, we are at the European Council one more of the many we are saying that we actually have to reduce our emissions to 55%... Finally, I believe, Your Honor, that we will be able to criticize and question nuances, but not the faithful and consistent commitment of this Government to mitigation and adaptation to climate change. It's like night and day when he rules the right and when he rules the left. [[Rumors]] No one doubts that; in Europe, of course, no one has ever complained to me that the Spanish Government is not committed to the Green Agenda, on the contrary, they are surprised that this is the case. Mr. Rego, of the Galego Nationalist Block... It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, you respect little; you're very right, but you respect nothing. They keep talking, whispering, insulting... it's a bit annoying, Madam President, but we'll go on anyway. [[The Rumors Continue]] Mr Regó, on the European funds, I think I have answered earlier. Of course they're going to get to the SMEs, of course they're going to transform. You speak of hyper centralization, but it is not true, Your Honor; there is not going to be hyper centralization. Much of the economic resources will be managed by the autonomous communities and also by the municipalities. I would like to remind you that the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces is present at the sectoral conference we have created for this purpose. Therefore, as a slogan and argumentary may be fine, but I believe, Your Honor, that the facts do not sympathize with your criticism in this matter. Territorial distribution? But, Your Honor, the React, all the funds we have given to the Galician Junta during these long months of pandemic to be able to cover the extra costs in Health, in Education, at last, to support the autonomous administration... Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there really is an effort; by the way, transfers, not with interests and with return, as was done in the past by the People's Party government. I must also say to you, Mr Baldoví, that you have criticisms. There has never been a financing for the Valencian Community as there has been in recent times. I was reminded by the Minister of Finance: EUR 2427 million. There has never been this funding before, Your Honor, there has never been before. Moreover, we are working on the reform of the autonomous financing system - you know that we are working on that improvement - and, in addition, we are increasing the economic resources to your community. Finally, I believe that the commitment of the Spanish Government in this matter to the Valencian Community is strong and absolute. I don't think that's fair. Mrs Arrimadas, I think you have made an intervention, if I may, full of nostalgia for what you have been and have ceased to be. I always get the attention that you come up here just like if you have 56 seats than if you have 10 or 2 or 1 or zero. Mr. Bal, I don't know, you should check this out a little bit. You are committed to replicating the threat of the breakup of Spain over and over again. I am very sorry to say that Spain will not be broken, that you will not worry, it will not break Spain; I repeat, Mrs Arrimadas: it will not break Spain. [[Mrs. Arrimadas utters words that are not perceived]] Well, it's just that you question it. There's not going to be a referendum on self-determination, Mrs. Arrimadas. So what you have done has been to add definitively to the exaggeration and hyperbole of the right and the right. Well, there you are. I think I'm not wrong when I think you can easily recognize what the real forces that threaten democracy are; what I don't understand is why you let yourself be caught up in them over and over again. You, Your Honor, stood up as the voice of constitutionalism in Catalonia a long time ago. You constantly appeal to the Spanish Constitution, however in this case you are willing to hit hard the legality and mechanisms of pardon. You question the constitutionality and legality of these grace measures and also appeal them to the courts. I would like to ask you once again not to refuse at least its usefulness. Its ten Members can be useful in the future of the country. You can add them to the motion of censure of Mr Casado and Mr Abascal, perfect, is in your right, but, beyond that, I hope that you will continue to be useful to the future of this country. I don't see that you have an alternative for Catalonia, I really don't know her. You have spoken of things we don't do, you criticize things we don't do, but you don't know what your proposal is for Catalonia. Mr Esteban is indeed grateful for his reflections on the contribution he has made to the coexistence and harmony of the current Spanish right. One hears this from writing down, as Aznar said: These are days to write down and not to forget. They're democratic people, tolerant people. The PP's is tolerant people. [[Rumors]] Indeed, you have made a very strong, robust and accurate criticism of some of these issues, and I sincerely believe that one of the main problems that the Spanish political system has is that Catalonia for the Spanish right has become a party issue, it has never been a matter of state, and I believe that this is the serious deficit that we have, as in many other things, of the contribution the Spanish right makes to coexistence and political stability in our country. Talk about managing. Man, Your Honor, I believe that we, on the bilateral level, are managing. I believe that the Joint Committee on Transfers is finally on the right track. I was now looking here at the subjects that we have passed since 2018, in which we ruled first in solitary and then in coalition, and, look, with several elections by means, in 2019 we managed the Recovery Plan, Your Honor, which has had an outstanding rating by the European Commission. He's telling me about migrations. I do not know exactly what the detail of what you question, but, of course, we are open to reviewing what we see. I understand that what you are telling me is more about unaccompanied foreign minors, how we can give an answer to this, but at European level, of course, the debate that will open next semester is precisely that of migration and asylum, and there we will have a lot to say. It is going to be a very difficult debate, but the position of the Spanish Government knows it, because we made a non-paper - which is what they call it in the European jargon - Spain and Italy, precisely, together with other MED7 countries, on what we have a vision of this migration and asylum pact. Finally, we will talk to your group about pensions in order to see exactly what doubts it raises, but it is obviously based on the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. We get fat, we get the political momentum back; well, I have nothing to say to that. About the Recovery Fund, you talk about what is the goal or vision we have at ten or fifteen years. I believe that in the Recovery Plan it is inscribed, it can be known, and also in the exercise we did, Spain 2050, which has been criticized by the Spanish right so frivolously, but instead it has been recognized by the Community institutions as an honest and positive exercise of what we want to be Spain in the coming years. Indeed, I believe that we have a great opportunity to stabilize our country, to modernize our country and for the benefit of all those who have suffered so much from the pandemic. Mrs Aizpurua, indeed, this has been a hard, very hard year, I do not want to take any decibels from this so blunt statement that I make. It has been very hard for all, but above all and above all for all those people who have lost their loved ones or who have seen them suffer this disease. Also for the victims of ETA, of course yes, of course yes. By the way, Mr Casado, it would be important for you not to break the consensus and be here when the tribute to the victims of ETA is celebrated. [[Applauds]] About the young, I agree with you. Indeed, we cannot stigmatize the behaviours of young people, who precisely what they have done throughout this pandemic has been an exercise of responsibility, generosity and solidarity with those generations who were most vulnerable. I think it's absolutely related to vaccination. That is why in my first intervention I referred to the new age groups that will enter the vaccination when we reach the end of all those generations older than forty years. On AstraZeneca and the second dose, I want to tell you that it is being debated in the interterritorial. Indeed, I think there will be a shortening and therefore a second dose advance with AstraZeneca in those generations between sixty and sixty-nine years. On the RCPs, I would like to say, Your Honor, that it is not financially sustainable. Obviously we have to be aware that we have to get vaccinated, that we have to achieve group immunity and that the Digital Green Certificate is not that it is a summary, that is, PCR and vaccine and have passed the disease, but it is going to be an or, or, or. In that sense we will have to work, but we cannot face a cost that could not be borne by any of the Member States of the European Union. I liked what you said about the social network; at least you recognize that there is an important effort. I would like you to make reference to the need to be united, in addition to coming from a parliamentary group that defends independence, in this case that of Euskadi. Indeed, we have to be united, we have to strengthen the public, the collective. In this respect, I would like to say that, of course, what we have to do is to transition from protection to greater investment, because the economy is going to do - it is already in it - to relaunch over the coming months. Therefore, many of those entrepreneurs, many of those workers more than protection will want their business to be sustainable in the immediate future, and for that we have been betting on lines of credit more linked to investment than to protection. On the European funds, Your Honor, at last we have launched public demonstrations of interest to which countless small and medium-sized enterprises have presented themselves, not only large enterprises. You come from a territory-also Mr Esteban - in which the automotive sector is very important. Obviously, in order to be able to deal with the modernisation of a sector as important for Spain and for Euskadi as the automotive sector we will need the help of large companies, because, if not, how we will do it. It's not possible. It can't be done by a small company. A different question is that these small and medium-sized enterprises, as a result of the tractor effect that these large companies may have, are involved in this modernisation, but we must do so. One of the questions I have been asked before is that we are no longer competing with Hungary, Poland; Europe is competing with the United States, with China, and we will therefore have to see how the Commission changes its competition rules and state aid, because, of course, companies are being helped to modernize them in China, in the United States, and we will have to do the same in Spain and in Europe, because, if not, much of that industrial fabric will be relocated. In this case, Mrs Aizpurua, by answering your question, I would not do that game, because it really is not. We are making public demonstrations of interest, where we are presenting - and I want to say this proudly - countless projects not only of large companies, but of small companies linked to the territory, with the development of their territory, of their region, of their municipality, and of course we are going to vehicle all that demand, in fact, as we can, depending on what policies are being implemented, and not just us, but also the autonomous, provincial and municipal administrations, as I mentioned earlier. What's our project? You're talking about Scotland. It's curious. You talk about understanding. Without a doubt, maximum respect; maximum respect, it would lack more, the national feeling that a part of Euskadi and a part of Catalonia could have, it would lack more. I have said this on many occasions: this is a settled democracy and, therefore, maximum respect for the views of everyone and for the political project that everyone can have, even if he does not share it in this case. It speaks of dialogue and agreement and, indeed, the agreement is the key; that is the point of arrival, there has to be an agreement. What we cannot do is place responsibility on the citizens of a non-agreement. He talks about Scotland, but, look, in Scotland, he's curious, independence has lost the referendum and is already asking for a new one. Don't you think about it? Or what, what's going to be referendums until independence wins? [[Laughter]] But then what is done is to divide the citizenry into our territories. And, look, there is also a very important issue, now that it refers to Scotland, and that is that Scottish independence, unlike in this case Catalan independence - continue what the lady of the UPC, Mrs Vehi -, always rejected the unilateral way and always said yes to an agreement, but never to an illegal referendum. That is a big difference, Your Honor, from which I hope you have taken note of Catalan independence. Otherwise, Mrs Vehí's opinion was: referendum, referendum. By the way, I have never denied that, indeed, Catalan citizens have to vote, but, I insist, the discrepancy between you and us is that we want an agreement to be reached and an agreement to be voted on, and you want a confrontation to be voted on, a non-consensus, and I think that is something that we cannot accept. In addition, another question: I understand that you and I separate light years from each other. For me, if we live together, we decide together, and whatever has to be Catalonia and whatever has to be Spain, as they are intimately linked, because one and the other belong to the same being - even if it hurts you, Your Honor - we will have to decide it among all the citizens of this territory that we call Spain. Forgiveness. Finally, it is not just the big entrepreneurs, the unions say, that it is also the small and medium-sized enterprises that are associated around other business associations and not just the promotion of work, as I think you have said. Principle of reality, of course. The principle of reality, ladies and gentlemen, is to speak of politics. And speaking of politics is not defending the maximalist positions, it will be approaching, because, if not, what is the dialogue? What is the space we can find ourselves in? None. And I believe, Your Honor, that - I insist - Catalans do not deserve it. For Mrs Oramas, as for Casado and Abascal, I am guilty of all the evils in the Canary Islands, but the truth is, Your Honor, that there has never been a government that has transferred as much economic resources to the Canary Islands as this progressive government has done. [[Applauds]] You will be able to criticise that there are errors and delays in the collection of ERTs, that there are delays also in the collection of minimum vital income, but what you cannot do is to deny the obvious, because, then, what debate do we have, Your Honor? Is it true that the EUR 120 billion we have committed in loans through the ICO and which have helped to support small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers, also in the Canary Islands, did not exist? Have the ERTEs, where we have disbursed more than EUR 40 billion, not even existed, Your Honor? Have direct aid to the tourism sector in the Canary Islands also not existed, Your Honor? They really didn't exist? But you talk to the canary entrepreneurs? I don't talk to the canary businessmen? You do, but I don't. Man! I recognize that there may be errors or failures, but the Public Employment Service, Your Honor, has had to face a formidable, unusual challenge. The work of public servants will have to be recognized. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes affirmative gestures]] You recognize it; well, that's it. There may be errors, but not the commitment of public services, nor of the Government of Spain. I think you are also disqualified when you come up here and say that resources do not reach the productive and entrepreneurial fabric in the Canary Islands. Man, coming from a party like yours, which has been government party in the Canary Islands... I don't know. By the way, minimum living income. I am going to break a spear by the minimum income vital, because it is true that this is a complicated time to be able to extend a new right, but in just over a year, Your Honor, we have reached 600,000 people. When the minimum living income or previous policies, let's say, linked to the minimum living income were in the hands of many autonomous communities - there are honourable exceptions, and he looked at Navarra or I look at Euskadi - neither by any means do the aid reach the level that is coming now. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] Therefore, let us at least recognize, despite the difficulties, the enormous success of the work that social security officials are doing, precisely in order, at such an extreme moment as this, to help families who are suffering from this inequality and social exclusion. I thank Mr Quevedo for his support for the measures of grace. I recognize you and thank you for your support. On the Canary Islands REF, the Minister of Finance tells me that we are actually talking, first of all, about a proposal made by the groups and, secondly, that you are voting against a measure that I believe - I do not know where Mr Quevedo is, I do not see him, is he not? - which benefits the audiovisual sector in the Canary Islands. Doesn't it benefit you, Mrs. Oramas? [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] Well, nothing, it doesn't benefit you. In any case, the joint committee will be set up to remind me, and it is recorded that we of course respect the REF de Canarias. To Mr. Sayas, so nothing, what am I going to tell him? If I'm the devil with tail and horns, then that's it. We will already have an opportunity to discuss something a little more normal and more rational on some other occasion. To Mr. Martínez Oblanca, as well. The evils are of socialism. Thankfully, this is the Asturias Forum and also Mr. Helmets, whom you strongly support. That is indeed an example of democratic regeneration, transparency and good use of public resources! [[Applauds]] Mr Mazón, I thank him for at least respecting and recognizing the legality of these grace measures by the Government, which is being called into question by the right and the right. It speaks of the presence of the State. I believe that, in the end, we have given more than obvious proof of our presence in the State, not only with our physical presence - in the State, I mean Catalonia; moreover, I also do not like to talk about the presence of the State in Catalonia, because Catalonia is also a State, that is, the Generalitat of Catalonia and each and every one of the municipalities is a State; they will be different levels of State, but one State - but also with the policies that we are implementing in all areas: infrastructures, culture, science. Anyway, I think we're clearly proving that we're here. Mr Guitarte - I have been prepared a note from the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agency -, you know that shortly after Mr Ábalos arrived in the department, the ministry addressed the inclusion of the itinerary Zaragoza-Teruel-Sagunto in the corridor of the Mediterranean in order to opt for financing 2021-2027, and I would like to refer to two questions for the record. Firstly, I believe that it has been a determined bet to boost the Cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor of almost EUR 193 million in tendering for actions to modernise the current line. This investment will be reinforced by the purchase of new, more sustainable trains for travellers. We have fulfilled our commitment to resume the drafting of the informative study of the new line between Teruel and Zaragoza and to bid the drafting of Sagunto-Teruel, which we have already formalized. On the other hand, we have launched 14 kilometers of conditioning of the N-330 in Teruel; we have fulfilled our commitment to bid the variant of Alcorisa, in the N-211, in Teruel; the improvement of the N-330 between Villastar and Teruel, and finally, the A-68, Fuentes del Ebro-El Burgo de Ebro, in Zaragoza. We have advanced in the works to complete the unfolding of the N-232-A 68, with the tender of the drafting of the duplication of the Alcañiz-Ventas sections of Valdealgorfa in Teruel and Quinto-Fontes de Ebro in Zaragoza and we have tendered the drafting of the variant of Utrillas, in Teruel, and of the maintenance of the Autovia Mudéjar A-23 and the rest of the network. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know who was saying before - I think it was Mrs de Bildu - that we are on the equator of the legislature. No, we haven't had the equator of the legislature, we've had a year and a few months at the head of the government, and I think that, in the end, the commitment that we are having to internal Spain, with which you represent in this House - as Teruel - is strong, as well as with all Aragon. I would like to thank Mrs Lastra very much for the work, the tone and the pride of being able to always listen to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group defend not only with emotion, but also with many reasons and with a good tone - different from others - the positions of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you to each and every one of the Members. [[Applauds]] I had some notes here to complete this first replica. I will say that 2020 was the year of the pandemic, they have heard me say it many times. [[Rumors]] I know, I know it's hard for them to listen to me, but I'm going to have to hear from a couple of young people, at least here, from the rostrum, as president of the government. A couple of years ago. [[Applauds]] It costs them, I know it costs them, but in the end, they make good progress. [[Laughter]] 2021 is the year of vaccination and recovery and must also be, ladies and gentlemen, the year of politics, of politics for Catalonia and of politics for all of Spain, of politics for a united Europe. I believe that the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, that we need the government to move a strong message of coexistence. I would also like to say to that Catalan independenceist party - not least in Catalonia, the Spanish Government does not deny it - that we have them, that we all need them, that this is the great lesson we have to learn from this pandemic and from this time so sterile and so painful that we have had ten years of this part and that, therefore, in that 'we all need' we all have everyone. We would also like the independence side in Catalonia to have the non-independence side in Catalonia and, consequently, to have an exercise of generosity and union among all of us, because I believe that the objectives and challenges that we have before us will demand, and very much, not only intelligence, political will, correct in the objectives and in the definition and implementation of them, but also, above all and above all, coexistence, because with coexistence we will have the cement to make Catalonia, of each and every one of the territories of this great country that is Spain, a better country. I believe that this is a challenge, which is a challenge that challenges us all, which is incumbent on us all, but above all and above all it is a formidable, exciting challenge, to which, of course, the Government of Spain wants to give a constructive, hopeful response and - why not say so, in such black times - optimism, because optimism is also what Spanish society needs. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u69	Mr. Sánchez said, "I have some notes here. And it's been an hour and a half reading a hundred sheets written and machine-printed. [[Applauds]] And today is parliamentary day. It's amazing. Look, your advisors have been forgotten, the thousand you have, to pass you a note, in this fragrant debate, which says open quotes 'he said there will be no referendum, but he also said there will be no pardons; give us time'. This is what Rufián said, that is, his boss. What do you think, Mr. Sanchez? Say here and now what do you think? They're telling him, first, that he's a liar. They don't believe him or his partners. It is a pathetic thing to be president of the government and not to be created by your opponents, your party or your partners. But it's just, on top of that, he challenges you to tell him that you're going to give them the referendum. Of course he's going to give them the referendum, just as he gave them the pardons and solemnly said he was never going to give them to them. This has let go of him by humiliating himself and you have lowered your head and gone out to make some sort of parliamentary massage and to tell him that you thank him for his agreement: the agreement of those who throw dung in the courts of Catalonia; the agreement of the violent process that have left tetraplegic to a national police - to see if he too will pardon his pathology that he wrote on social networks; the agreement of those who have broken windows; the agreement of the CoR, that of Mr Marlaska, who will already tell us the termite agent this how it is going. [[applause]] I can tell you the names of the businessmen you escorted those days. One day you will have to explain this to me, Mr Sánchez, and I hope that it is not too late and that no one in the People's Party will be affected by the CoR, because your Government will be responsible for not notifying them in time. [[Applauds]] That is the evolution of the Socialist Party; ninety years ago they were threatening us directly on this bench, now they simply say that overacting when there is a Civil Guard attestation that we are being threatened by others. Well, Mr Rufián, his boss, has told him that he has to do more tasks to be more magnanimous, that the Court of Auditors does nothing - some minister also said -. Aren't you going to defend the constitutional bodies, Mr. Sanchez? Aren't you going to defend the institutions? Because they also said that there is a justice that prevails, that there is a state that is repressive... What are you doing, abandoning seven million Catalans to pardon also five million euros embezzled by the coup? I tell you that if you try to subvert the majority of the Court of Auditors established by organic law I will do the same as I did with the General Council of the Judiciary, I will go to the Constitutional Court, I will go to the Venice Commission, I will go to the European Commission, I will go to the European Parliament. [[Applauds]] I would remind you that the Commissioner for Justice of the European Union told you that if the reform of the majorities of the Council had not been withdrawn, an infringement procedure would have been opened for breach of the rule of law of Spain, on the basis of Article 2 of the Treaties of the Union, putting the receipt of European funds at risk. You'll see, Mr. Sanchez. We have already seen how influential you are in those twenty-nine seconds with Biden and I have already seen how influential it is in the European Union, where you do not believe your lies, where you are aware that here you say the opposite of what you say in Europe, that you lie about reforms and about receiving funds. But, obviously, somewhere they'll end up proving he's lying. And Aragonès came out of the Moncloa with a yellow bow - he did not go to the fountains of Guiomar, like Torra, the one of the wild beasts - and said he asked, with his head very high, amnesty, self-determination and independence. Your speechwriter has been forgotten to say what you answered. No, they didn't just talk about the Mediterranean corridor, they didn't talk about the Hermitage, they talked about pardons, yes about amnesty, independence and self-determination. And now he says that they have to have a bilateral relationship, equal to that, as the spokesman for Junts per Cat has said, that we have to formalize the divorce between Spain and Catalonia, that they do not seek the reunion - point, for their agenda - but the independence, that there has to be a state-to-state relationship and that they will continue to deepen in the international defeat of Spain. Your partners. But then the CUP comes and says: Hear, or referendum or referendum and, if not, we will bury the Government of the Generalitat. What do you have to say about that, Mr. Sanchez? His writer has also been forgotten. Bildu. Bildu comes here and says that you can agree to this agenda and that you will also have to respond to what they have asked you to make him president. And you come here to talk about the victims of terrorism, when the spokesman was the editor of a weekly newspaper that targeted politicians to then attack us? [[Applauds]] As Múgica said, we'd rather lose votes than lose the soul, like you. You lie to everyone and no one believes you anymore. Now that we have so much opposition - everyone has opposed me - and it seems that they already see us as a government, call elections and we formalise it, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] But as I was saying, let's talk about Catalonia. How can you talk about Catalonia when the illegal statute was intended to legalize illegal referendums and throw the Supreme of Catalonia away? Are we talking about inciting hatred? And what was Tinell? To agree before the notary the exclusion of half of Spain when it ruled by absolute majority the party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u70	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u71	I'm on my way, President. And Zapatero said that in ten years we were going to be better. He said it in 2006, and we see it. Well, look, when the PP rules, the people who break the law go to court and the parliament and the government dissolve. When you are ruling, you make all kinds of flattery and guinea pigs who break the law and continue to humiliate the Catalan constitutionalists, who want their government to protect them and not to compromise with those who are breaking their coexistence and legality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u72	Thank you, Mr. Casado. He's finished his shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u73	Just a reflection. Mr. Sánchez, what are you going to do if Puigdemont plants in Spain and breaks all the farce of Esquerra and yours? And a reflection, for allusions. Mr. Sanchez, you're asking me if I have anything to hide in the Villarejo case. I don't, nothing. And you have something to hide?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u75	Tell us about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u76	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u77	And don't tell us about corruption and nepotism when you have four ministers involved in EREs, when you have four ministers involved in an instrumental society to defraud taxes and when you have...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u78	Mr. Married, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u79	...to families of their positions lobbying or ministers or in regulators. And the last question. Mr Sánchez, if you have any dignity and word left, call for elections and resign or you will end up as Zapatero, without even being able to present yourself to them. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Some Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u80	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u81	You have no shame, no decorum, no limit. Bring in the mechanized replicas and let us have an hour-and-a-half brick. He hears absolutely nothing of what we say. It comes with mantras, insults and caricatures of all time. But, look, wrap it up as you like. We are faced with a covert amnesty of the most serious crimes that public officials have committed throughout Spanish democracy, because not only have the money of the Spaniards been put in the pocket, but they have tried to steal from us what to all the Spaniards belongs to us, which is sovereignty, which is legality and you have approved a covert amnesty for all of them. [[applause]] Monsignor Sánchez, the time of punishment passed, the time of forgiveness came. Now you're the one who forgives. Well, look, in the Spanish prisons there are thousands and thousands of people for far lighter crimes than those committed by the coup, who were not crimes against constitutional order, but far lighter crimes. Are you going to forgive Pedro Sánchez the Magnanimo too? Who did you think you were? [[Applauds]] Referendum. He says there will be no referendum. We don't believe you, Mr. Sánchez, don't believe your beating partners, don't believe anyone, don't believe you yourself, Mr. Sánchez, nor do you. Mr Illa, how have the People's Party and the Citizens' Party gone from Catalonia, in your opinion, has stood up for the Constitution in Catalonia. Whose? Does anyone attack her? Yes, your partners, and in the Basque Country that lady who recently intervened and to whom you have just failed to get on your knees in this House. What a fool! You missed a kiss, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] In his first speech he said that he defends those who legitimately want to change the Constitution. Look, VOX has some proposals for constitutional reform on the state of autonomy. You're defending that we have a right to do it? No, no, However, it defends the right of those who want to carry the constitutional foundation, which is national unity, and that is irrefutable, Mr Sánchez. So stop deceiving this House, stop deceiving your voters and stop deceiving the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] You're a danger to Spain. You don't know or read well; what your advisors type, yes, but Julián Marías, in intelligible Spanish, of course not, because he said, among other things, that you can't be content with those who don't want to be content, and that's what you're doing with separatism, you with special eagerness, for a long time in Spain. He was then stunned that the trade unions had supported him; no, the communist trade unions had supported him. He peacocked that he had been supported by the employer; no, he had been supported by the boss of the employer to whom he had given a medal. He peacocked that he had been supported by the Church; no, he had been supported by a handful of nationalist clerics. [[Applauds]] The trade unions, the employer and the clergy, with all due respect, will be able to say Mass; it is the Supreme Court, which does not say Mass, that says the law, and has warned you of its illegality, Mr. Sánchez, by which we will end up sitting on the bench. [[Applauds]] And you lied when you spoke of the President of Hungary, Mr Orbán, when you said that the rejection was almost unanimous. That is not true: seventeen in favour of sanctioning Hungary, eleven against doing so and two abstentions. You have divided Europe in half. You are going to be responsible for the end of the European Union by trying to impose all its ideology and do so against an anti-communist fighter who defended homosexuals - yes, homosexuals - against communism - who supports you - the communists, who shot them. [[Applauds]] Of course we defend gays, and better than you, who open the borders so that they come from all the countries where they don't respect them and where they would like to hang them. In Hungary homosexuals can walk quietly on the street. In some streets of Amsterdam, Brussels or Barcelona, no, for that fundamentalist immigration that doesn't respect you and that you all bring. [[Applauds]] Mr. Pedro Lies, what are you still doing there? Don't you have enough? Haven't you accomplished everything for your narcissism album? He already has his photo with the Ray-Ban in the Falcon, his photo in Manhattan surrounded by escorts that seemed like the beginning of a film, his photo with a machine gun in Barcelona, where nothing happened, or his photo stolen with Biden. He's got it all figured out. From now on, it is no longer narcissism; all the harm you do is pure sadism. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Some Members: Bravo! Long live Spain! Long live!- A honourable Member: Long live Catalonia!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u82	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u83	Thank you, President. Mr. Married, you've been talking about respect for the law all morning. I think it would be good for me to start by respecting the Rules of Procedure of this House and the President when she tells you that time is running out. He always does the same thing, he abuses his time. [[Applauds]] President, just three things. The first is that I welcome the renewed commitment to amend the Penal Code and adapt it to that of other European countries. The second is on the proposal of the party table in Parliament. Check your notes with respect, because we, not only Mr Illa, have been doing that proposal for weeks. And with regard to decentralization, we advocate not only administrative decentralization, but also political decentralization, and I hope that we can also agree on this, just as we have agreed on pardons. I think it would be good for you to put back at the centre the Republican values that your political project had before. Mr. Married, today we have seen again that there are certain things that do not change on the right. One of them is their willingness to create chiringuitos where they rule. Ayuso recently told us that there was no money for public health and has closed out outpatient clinics, instead he has set up a little chiringuito to Toni Cantó. What used to be for Abascal, now is for Toni Singed. But it's cool, because now we're talking about 75,000 euros for Spanish to be spoken in Madrid. What a more ambitious challenge. Finally, Spanish will be spoken in Madrid. [[Applauds]] The truth is that when I read the news this morning, as a criminal lawyer that I am, I thought: won't that be the gift, the bribe, the price you paid to Toni Singed for him to change his game? I don't know, like one day the courts will give us an answer to that question. Another thing that doesn't change - we have checked it today - is your willingness not to accept the rules of the game when they don't fit. Today I have quoted Donoso Cortés, you have also quoted him on other occasions, but you as a political reference. Donoso Cortés said that when legality is enough, legality, and when it is not enough, dictatorship. [[The lady]] The truth is that by reading to you today, to your chief Abascal and you, I have thought of Donoso Cortés, because you that of alternation do not have it well integrated. They believe that power belongs to them by birthright and, therefore, when they lose it, they kidnap the institutions. I am therefore not surprised that he said what he said today about the Civil War, that those who defended legality were the ones who rose up against Republican legality. The truth is that this is another proof that the right in Spain has nothing to do with the right in Europe. There is also their lack of respect for the law - today has been heard again on several occasions - on some occasions. There are many examples, but I have taken note of some. You have said some things that are not true, that are a lie, because you confuse freedom of expression with the right to lie. We have been told that pardons are revokable and that this is why they file an appeal. That is an exclusive power of the Government and you cannot replace that power nor can any judge replace it; in fact, you have no active legitimacy. His man at the General Council of the Judiciary left it already written in a sentence. It seems that some of you have the titles and the master's degrees. After that, you have said that this pardons thing is very bad for us in Europe. How dare you say that after what the Council of Europe has said, after what the Court of Luxembourg, the judges in Germany, Belgium, what the UN has said or what Amnesty International has said? Europe is a very uncomfortable mirror for you, so some want to break it and want to leave the European institutions. And today we are told that pardons are a threat, that break the unity of Spain. You, who are those of the insolidary secessionism of Ayuso in Madrid and who are an authentic factory of independenceists in the Basque Country and Catalonia - Nustedes, from 10% to 50% in Catalonia - cannot speak of Spain when the anti-Spain that they draw is the majority of this Congress and of Spanish citizenship. You think Spain is irreformable, and that's what you want to sing in the streets and in the ballot boxes, but it's you who are irreformable. Spain is reformable and we believe that the greatest guarantee that Spain will not break is that you will never return to the government again. [[Applauds]] Only then can we build a fraternity project that is an alternative to 50% of Catalans who have been voting for ten years independence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u84	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u85	I've taken some notes. First, I want to make a review of the right-wing gentlemen, because they call us coupmen constantly. Zapatero's victory, a coup d'état, right? The motion of censure against Rajoy, coup d'état. The referendum in Catalonia, coup d'état. The pardons, coup d'état. What about Franco in '36? What about Tejero in '81? They're a pain in the ass, aren't they? Mr Casado, making Madrid the European capital of Spanish is the object that have been invented for the chiringuito that have been invented for the chameleonic Toni Cantó. I understand that just go out to the streets of Madrid and hear that you speak Albanian to understand that you have to promote Spanish in Madrid. Beyond the chascarillo, Mr Casado, I give you a warning, which you know: Mrs Ayuso marks the agenda for you. Mrs. Ayuso sets the agenda for you. And you here, who has sometimes made Merkel - and it feels good to you -, are becoming more and more beast, and are becoming more and more beast here in the atrium because you have to compete with the one who really rules in your party, which is Mrs. Ayuso. And I make a suggestion: be careful, because maybe we'll see Mrs. Ayuso giving her the syrup you gave Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo. Citizens. Mrs. Arrimadas says we're afraid of her. He called us kryptonite, and that makes us, as Mr. Abascal says, superman. But beyond that, I am grateful that you continue to repeat your proposal to join the PP to VOX and thus add 221 Members. With all due respect to everyone, it is as if the Getafe tells Real Madrid to join together to add thirteen Champions between the two. You are, with all due respect, the Getafe and the truth is that you painted it more like Manchester City. Mr President, now you are serious, and it is over, you constantly demand a table, a space to speak among Catalans, because there are differences between Catalans. I understand that the differences are between Catalan independentists and non-independentists, sovereignists and non-sovereignists, Catalanists and non-Catalanists, self-determinationists and non-self-determinationists; in short, differences between Catalans and, therefore, a space must be created for Catalans and Catalans to speak. I'll tell you something. I think there are more differences between José María Aznar and you, for example, than between an independent Catalan and a non-independence Catalan. It's more, and it's even worse - or not, because I think it speaks well of you -, perhaps there are more differences between Felipe González, who shares a party with you, and you, than between an independent Catalan and a non-independent Catalan. It is normal that there are differences in democracy. What does exist is a political conflict, which is already unequivocal, between Catalonia and the Spanish State, which must be resolved, which forces us to do our job, which forces us to dialogue and which forces us to do politics. Let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u86	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I would remind you of the compliance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Of the whole regulation, but of Rule 103. And, therefore, anyone vulnerating it will be encouraged by the Presidency to withdraw its words. Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u87	Thank you, President. It's Nogueras, Mr. Sánchez, with s, finished in s. You speak of fugitives referring to the Catalan political leaders who have taken more than a million votes, who are MEPs and deputies to the Parliament of Catalonia, who everyone knows where they live and where they work, who have been subjected to justice and who are winning all the judicial battles in Europe. If you return, will you respect your parliamentary immunity, ladies and gentlemen of vibrant democracy? For the first time independence goes up by 50%, and governs the PSOE. The Court of Auditors steals millions of euros from the offices of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and governs the PSOE. By the way, no respect for politicised and partial Court of Auditors. There are handcuffs from Europe almost every week, and it governs the PSOE. Independence wins all judicial battles at the international level, and governs the PSOE. Follow the repression, and rule the PSOE. There is still no proposal from the Government of Spain for Catalonia, and it governs the PSOE. No more excuses, Mr. Sanchez. Don't talk to us again about the dialogue between Catalans when they don't have a proposal for Catalonia. Whoever knows what he wants finds the middle and who doesn't know what he wants finds excuses, and the list of excuses you have is very long. I read you a good summary that has been made by the very honorable Councillor Jordi Turull, someone whom you think you do not deserve freedom: In the Spanish State the Government makes the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court makes the policy, the Supreme Court imprisons the person who departs from this script and the Court of Auditors ruins you if you do not surrender, and it is not an opinion, it is a finding. I'm finishing up. You say Catalonia is the land of the pimpampum for the right, which uses it to get votes in Spain. When you say that you will never support a referendum, do you think about 80% of Catalans asking for it or looking for votes outside Catalonia? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras and Camero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u89	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, when you talk so long it is normal that you sometimes get it wrong, and you were wrong when you answered my question about the possibility of small and medium-sized enterprises being able to reach European funds and enjoy them. You, when you answer me about it, tell me that the Economics Advisor in Catalonia has worked at an IBEX company. This is a mistake, Mr. President. First of all, it is a mistake because Mr Giró exconseller because the president of the democratically elected Generalitat has appointed him conseller. Secondly, because the professional career until one reaches the public service must not be questioned, on the contrary. It seems to me better that you have had a successful career and not that you have arrived without this professional career, Mr President. In any case, he is also mistaken because, if he is concerned about IBEX companies, he should not be concerned if workers from IBEX companies come to the public service, but on the contrary, that they go from the public service to IBEX companies; if there are ministers, that after being ministers they go to an IBEX company; or that after being ministers they go to an Ibex company and then they go back to being ministers, and that after being ministers, they end up being high representatives of the European Union. [[applause]] They should be worried about this. In any case, you have a chance in the replica, you can't answer. Mr President, tell small and medium-sized enterprises how they are going to access European funds, when the calls are going to come out and what the role of the autonomous communities is in managing European funds, whether they are going to be managers or whether they are going to have decision-making capacity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u91	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, you haven't explained it to us, you haven't explained your conversion, when you saw the light, when you changed your life, when you felt that call, that mystical revelation. Mrs. Lastra hasn't explained it to us either. When did you stop saying that the crime of rebellion had to be put in place so that the thugs could be thought of asking for the sedition penalty to be reduced? When did you happen to say that the crime of illegal referendum had to be criminalized to pardon the coup? When did you go on to say that the penalties must now be fully complied with, not just by industry, but, above all, that they should not be paid if there is a conviction from the Court of Auditors? When was it, Mrs. Calvo? When did you stop thinking - if you were around - that a democratic government doesn't get prisoners out of jail? Mrs. Lastra, when did you stop thinking that that pardon was Mr. Miquel Iceta's personal opinion? When did they stop thinking about this? I ask you, when did you stop being filled with hatred and in search of conflict? When did you leave the pimpampum to use Catalonia to search for votes in other parts of Spain? When was it? Look, Mr. Sanchez, don't hang up, don't hang up. I'm going to ask you a favor. Really, come here and say, "Look, I need the votes of Republican Left and separatism, and I've been asked for pardons and I've been asked to lower the crime of sedition. And that's it. You know why? Because we would have the wrong thing to have you as president, but at least we would save you insulting the judges, endangering the image of Spain and its judicial system abroad, and, above all, we would save you criminalizing the constitutionalists, as if it were our fault! No, no, we are the victims; the coup and the separatists are the culprits of what we live every day in Catalonia. And I say well, every day, because it's not that the gentlemen say they're going to do it again, it's that they do it every day, they haven't stopped doing it. They have not stopped using public money in propaganda, they have not stopped indoctrining, they have not stopped pointing out, they have not stopped chasing public servants who are not separatists, they have not stopped doing so. And you now not only give them criminal impunity, but, above all, you want there to be no conviction from the Court of Auditors. Mrs Lastra, you will not remember because you have had the revelation, but you voted here in 2017 in favour of the Court of Auditors investigating the use of public money in foreign action. You, Mrs. Lastra, when you were a being full of hate and conflict! [[applause]] Look, I'll tell you what, pay him out of his pocket. You, with all those who are and all the plugs you have, at a cost, put the money and you pay the Court of Auditors' fine, but don't do it to us, above all, pay us with our taxes. Do you know the only unanimity there is right now in Spain? Between separatists, not separatists, people on the right, on the left, on the centre, do you know what is unanimous in Spain, Mr Sánchez? That you lie, that you have no word and that you are doing this not out of conviction, but out of necessity. Mr. Rufián told you. And, by the way, when Mr Rufián comes here to humiliate you and tell you that you are going to hold a referendum, lift your head, that you are the president of the Government of Spain, and do not look down on separatism. Get your head up! [[Applauds]] You attack Citizens much more, of course, than Bildu, who has thanked you for your speech. Attention to Bildu and Esquerra. And he always attacks us with the same, with the number of seats. I will be very frank with you, Mr Sánchez, everything you have achieved in politics has managed to do so by lying, cheating and betraying the values of the Socialist, Workers' and Spanish Party. I prefer to lose my seat in Congress, I prefer not to ever become President of the Government or Vice-President and Minister or anything to arrive as you have arrived and to stay as you have come to stay as you have. [[Applauds]] Of course, for Mrs. Lastra, who sure makes a reference also out there, I suppose losing seats has to be worse than the zombie apocalypse. I'd rather lose seats and not lose principles, Mr. Sanchez. Do you think my colleague Edmundo Bal would ever accept being Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain to have to do what Mr Campo is doing? But do you think we're all the same? [[Applauds]] Finally, it is not that we have few seats, it is that you despise the constitutionalist seats, that we have twice as many votes as the Republican Left of Catalonia, because you reward the separatists. But, look, we cannot allow the image, the teaching of children and young people in Spain to be given in Spain that everything is worth keeping in power. We cannot win over those who remain in power at all costs, we cannot give that life lesson to the children and young people of this country. We cannot reward serious lies; not harsh measures by a government when a crisis comes, has to take tough measures or not the entire electoral programme can be carried out, not normal things, what you are doing has not been done by any democratic government in Spain, none. We cannot leave the children and young people of this country with the teaching that we will reward the one who is able to do anything to reach power. Finally, I tell you that I am convinced, I tell you again, that it is not going to go well, because with you the Spanish institutions are greatly weakened, with you at the head of the government is greatly weakened Spain, but I tell you that Spain is much stronger than you and your separatist partners believe. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u93	Quite a noise, Mr. President. This, this, this. What a salad! Constitutionalist, nationalist, independentist, coup, terrorist, separatist, supremacist. It lacks what defines many of those who are constantly using this word: the Spanishman. [[Applauds]] I'm going to be very telegraphed in the answer I'm going to give you because I have little time. You have spoken of money distributed generously, of the amount of millions. It is true, but he has not said one thing that is very important and that forces us all to act more responsibly and that is that much of that money is debt. And it commits us to make sense and be effective for the future. Transfers. You took it out, I didn't take it out. I am grateful that an agreement has been reached. Today in the newsletter these four transfers appear but, since you have taken it out, I will tell you that on the calendar we are late - and I have not mentioned it, but since you have said it - with the minimum vital income. There you go, Mr. Write again! [[Laughter]] Well, according to the law, it should have been transferred and in some terms, moreover, it agreed with me last October and has not yet done so. There are other things in that ministry, but we'll talk. [[The lady]] Migration. I wasn't just talking about minors, President. I think we can have a complicated summer because now comes a time when there's going to be more moves, more pateras, etc. And, in the end, these flows end up coming, some directly but others through the islands, to the Peninsula and these people are moving, and despite all the agreements, from Schengen, etc., the truth is that there is a cap on the French border and that France often does not act according to how it should act with regard to the European agreements. There are situations of danger, for example, people who when crossing the Bidasoa River drown and die, people who do not have minimal coverage to have decent conditions to be there and accumulate people in those movements. There's a lot of tension and it's very complicated. That's what I meant. The autonomous communities have to intervene there. Of course, this is a MENA topic, but not just MENA and especially now in this summer season. Pensions. Listen, it has been the hand of saint: to say this in public and shortly, at the hour and a half, they have sent to the deputy of the Basque Parliamentary Group who is in that Commission the documentation that I had commented that had not arrived; it has arrived but late, a posteriori. European funds. I am partly in line with what Mr Bell has said. Above all, implementation is now lacking and we are not very clear. There are some mysteries that have it clearer; I have to recognize it. I don't want to give names here, but I think there are some ministries that have very clear what they intend to do and how they are going to do it, but even with them we also need to know what the timing of the movements they are going to do, and in other ministries - I really say it - I think it's an absolute mystery. There are differences between them. As for what I was telling you to grease, I don't know exactly what you're talking about. For example, there are large infrastructure projects in which the collaboration and participation of Hacienda, Mitma and Mixteco are necessary, and many times not to mention, because there is one that puts the role here and already forgets, processes that with a small political impulse could have been faster get stuck, and that to the big infrastructures is affecting them one day yes and another too. To this I meant, that the work between ministries has to get fat if we want to give a political impulse. The corporal. You said no referendum, no national recognition either. Let's talk; let's go talk and move on. Of course, if we want to be in line with the different national sentiments in the country, we will have to talk and we will have to reach agreements. I am going to tell you one thing to start, to go and put some stone, very modest, very modest, let us clarify at once what the bases in this country's legal system mean, because now they do not have substantive limits or formal limits, which does, especially after the judgment of the Statute of Catalonia, that the legal insecurity of the autonomous framework is absolute, total and that the whole field is open for the state legislator or the government directly to do so many times. So, we have to give...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u94	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u95	The corporal. Four words: legal certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, I told you I was going to lose the debate, but it's not for you to come out here with the kick you came out with. [[Applauds]] You have to know how to lose and, by the way, you already have some experience in losing; besides, you have enough to keep losing. Mr President, you are going to allow me today to highlight the work of your parliamentary group and to explain to you - although I know you know this, but it is good that all Members of this House, especially those who never win the parchment, let alone in any speech or Commission or anything in this Congress - that since the beginning of the Socialist Group's parliamentary term alone there have been more than two hundred initiatives between the plenary and the Commissions, thirty-five proposals and bills adopted in Congress and forty-nine validated royal decree-laws, and the budgets are approved. Parliament's work and the stability of the government were assured before the pardons were granted and will be assured afterwards, Mr Casado, no matter how hard you try and no matter how hard it bothers you that Spain has a left-wing government that pushes left-wing laws forward. [[Applauds]] Spain and the Spanish are represented in this Parliament, which you despise, saying that it is useless when it is dedicated to putting sticks on wheels. Dialogue is not a necessity of this Government, Mr Casado, it is a conviction, a deep conviction. We demonstrate it every day in this House, we demonstrate it with the social partners, we demonstrate it in the relationship with our European partners. And you constantly use a fallacy, you say you have to comply with the law, that the government is failing to comply with the law. You know that it is not true, you know that pardon is contemplated in the Constitution, you know that you lie, but there is a reason for you to insist on such an obvious lie. Politics must always abide by the law, no doubt, but what you do is manipulate the law to hide that you have no political proposal. He hides behind a false reading of the law to renounce politics. It is not the law or the Constitution that prevents him from having a political proposal for the situation in Catalonia, it is incapacity or'desidiy. If you don't want to, you don't know or you can't do your job, if you give up politics, let us do ours that we do believe in politics. If you don't have any projects for Catalonia, Spain or Europe, let us work for those who do and we strive every day to get it going. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u99	Madam President, we started this debate at nine o'clock and it is four and four o'clock in the afternoon. Finally, many words, many things said; indeed, some with more tine, in my opinion, than others, both in substance and in form. In any case, I am grateful to all of you for having poured out your opinions, because I believe that this is indeed the temple of the word, even though sometimes it seems more like the temple of the improvies and not the temple of the word. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to transfer to you in relation to the measures of grace, which, as I have said on some other occasion, I understand the reparations that may have part of Catalan citizenship, part of Spanish citizenship in this regard, is that it is a first step that conveys a strong message of coexistence, a first step towards the reunion of a good part of Catalan society, which lived with a particular tear that happened in 2017. Then the Socialist Party - I was the leader of the opposition - supported the Spanish government. And we did it, moreover, without having to have, from a formal, material, parliamentary point of view, incorporate or add any other senator when the application of section 155 had to be voted on in the Senate. We did so with a conviction, with the conviction that it was necessary to maintain the constitutional order, to defend our coexistence. And today, with that same conviction, we make the decision to take a step forward to overcome and repair the Catalan crisis that we have been dragging not since 2017, but from a time to this part. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we were all aware of the gravity of what happened, that we were all aware of the fact that we had to learn from the lesson at the time and that we had to put aside party velocities on the one hand and we would have to bear in mind that what is happening in Catalonia, which is a very important part of our country and represents 25% of the gross domestic product, is paramount, is fundamental, and that it has to be a matter of state and not a matter of partyism. If we take it as a matter of state, I believe that among all of us we can find a solution that will satisfy everyone and safeguard coexistence in Catalonia, which is nothing more or less than safeguarding territorial cohesion throughout the country. That is what the Spanish Government is going to do with conviction, determination and in defense of what unites us, which is nothing but the Spanish Constitution. Thank you, President. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u101	We continue with the agenda item on the Senate amendments. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud, transposing Council Directive 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market, amending various tax rules and regulating gambling. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Members who are in this debate on the bill today. I'm gonna tell you a story. In the Canary Islands, 40% of its economy is tourism with 50% of employment, in the agricultural sector the fundamental thing, as you know, is the banana sector, we have very few industries because it is impossible, markets are small, and we have two research centres. One of the main objectives of all governments in the Canary Islands has been to diversify the economy. Canary Islands has sun, it has mountain and sea landscapes, and a few years ago it was decided to bet on what were the cinematographic productions plus the productions of videos, cartoons, etc. These cinematographic productions caused the Canary Islands' Economic and Fiscal Regime to have very important subsidies and subsidies for the audiovisual sector, which enabled the creation of a business fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises that provide services to these cinematographic productions and which involve more than 2000 jobs, as the producers initially brought everything from the United States, Germany or the Peninsula. In this sense, the Canary Islands could be the world paradise for audiovisual productions because we have trained people and companies. A year ago, with COVID, with the culture and film sector, what happened happened and the Government, with very good judgment, issued a decree to support them. What's going on? That the Canary Islands, by virtue of its statute and its RED, has an 80% tax differential with regard to aid to producers in the Peninsula, and the Government goes from 3 million to 10 million in the Peninsula and forgets the Canary Islands, so no producer goes to the Canary Islands. That was in May. We denounced it at that time, the decree came out, we tabled the amendments and this has been extended until a week ago. What happened? Weeks passed and the Council of Ministers did not correct this technical error and the Canary Islands will only be improved by 5 million and the producers of the Peninsula by 10 million. The government says it is trying to correct this, and the Minister of Finance, who considers the rights of the Canaries to be privileges, decides that instead of rising to 18 million - which is 80% of the Peninsula - for the producers to be interested in going to the Canaries, it does not give them 12 million euros. And there's so much panchos left. They amend this law that comes now with an amendment to resolve this and, as they knew this was against the REF and the Statute, in case the Council of Ministers draws a decree, which has been in force for a week, but it is that it modifies the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands and our status of autonomy and they had to ask the Parliament of the Canary Islands to report. And on the 28th the Parliament of the Canary Islands, unanimously, Socialist Party and We can include, votes against this amendment of our Economic and Fiscal Regime and the Statute. I remember here that the constitutional framework is the Spanish Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. And this morning the president says: I don't know what they're complaining about, we're helping the audiovisual sector. Do you believe that the government of the PSOE and Podemos would have dared to violate the Basque statute, the Catalan or the Basque quota? Don't they care about the canaries? It's jobs, it's food! Yesterday the unanimous agreement of the Parliament of the Canary Islands entered into this Congress, which according to the status of the Canary Islands has to paralyse the processing of the norm. Since it was not done, I submitted a letter this morning to the Bureau of Congress - and I have not been answered so far - to paralyse the processing and allow this bilateral Commission between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands - which will be two months - on the basis of which the processing of the rule is then followed. Not now, the rule is now being worked out, both the decree and tomorrow, when it comes out in the Official Gazette, the completion of this law, violating the rights of the canaries, relegating to the canaries. That's it! That's it! And now they say that they respect the REF and the statute and that we are going to the meeting of the bilateral Commission. Bilateral commission now, when the rule says it's during processing? Why do we approve the status of autonomy here, with that broad consensus, do nothing? We're sick of it! And tomorrow is the presentation of the food chain law and next week is the Commission, and they are going to load the canary banana, with 20,000 people. And I don't say that. The Vice-Counsellor for Culture is from Podemos and has said so, as well as the members of the Canary Islands. We're sick of it! What do you want? No tourism, no agriculture, no audiovisual production and this year zero to research centres. And public investment in the Canary Islands has not arrived. I now ask here again, and I repeat, that the report of the Parliament of the Canary Islands be read to the whole House for its knowledge. And I ask the Bureau to stop processing, because the only solution that the Canary Islands already has in order to be able to combat these abuses is that tomorrow the Government and Parliament of the Canary Islands decide to resort to the Constitution. But do you know what's going on? Today the Socialist and Podemos Members voted in favour of the violation of the REF and against the agreement of the Parliament of the Canary Islands. [[Mr. Gómez Hernández makes negative signs]] Well, I hope not, Mr. Hector Gómez. I would be delighted if you had not voted in favour of that article and we had a fight together. But I have explained this to your President when he spoke earlier with disrespect to this Member and, above all, to two million canaries. I'm on my way. We voted no. The Parliament of the Canary Islands, unanimously, has said no and I say no to the speakers of the parties that are nationalists, that are independentists, I tell you that today they do it to the Canary Islands and one day they will do it to you too. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas, it is not customary for the presidency of the House to refer to statements in the rostrum, but I would not like to leave the questions that you have raised unanswered. Indeed, this morning I convened a Board of Spokesmen, precisely because a letter from another parliamentary group had entered asking for this item to be taken off the agenda. His writing has arrived with the plenary in progress and, therefore, with the impossibility of including him in that Board of Spokesmen, which is where his request should have been made. I would also like to remind you that your request does not meet the regulatory requirements, since Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure states that the amendment of the plenary must be endorsed by two parliamentary groups or one fifth of the House, and your writing is only signed. With regard to the report issued by the Parliament of the Canary Islands on the draft reference law, it has been referred to all the parliamentary groups and is therefore in the knowledge of all its Members, so I think it is appropriate that it be read in the plenary of the House given its extension and given that - most importantly - it is known to all its Members. Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u104	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. My group has already voted in favour of this law in the Finance Committee with full legislative power; a law which also included a number of amendments proposed by this group concerning, above all, the rectification of the additional responsibility which was required of customs representatives, with a double objective, to avoid harm and, moreover, not to undermine the competitiveness of the sector and not that of ports; a law which effectively addresses measures to prevent and combat tax evasion and avoidance, which also entails - in our view - the need to strengthen social awareness through, above all, the proper fulfilment of tax obligations; a law which comes from the Senate With a series of amendments which are now put to the vote. I have to tell you that we have not participated in this vote, because we do not share what happened in the Senate during the process of this law; and it is that, following the vote on a number of amendments, some of which were adopted, the vote on an amendment, the one concerning the reduction of the VAT rate for hairdressers, has been declared null and void. This nullity, of course, has been declared out of time, after the amendment was accepted by the Bureau and adopted by a majority. We believe that this can lead to legal uncertainty. We believe that a vote already taken cannot be called a controversy, because disputes must be called for and discussed before a vote, and this has already happened in the Bureau and that amendment has passed. We therefore do not understand that a posteriori veto, that declaration of nullity a posteriori; an amendment, yes, indeed, that was transactional, which, according to the Government, was due to an inconsistency, because it contains the amendment of two articles but of a single law, of the VAT Act. And if you see how the Anti-Fraud Act is structured, it is also so: it is a single article that modifies different articles, for example, of societies, of IRPF, etc. This VAT amendment, moreover, did not affect the general state budgets of 2021, but the general state budgets of 2022. The government - we understand -, if it sees that this could undermine the policy of income or expenditure or cause problems, it could, in the State's own general budgets of 2022, proceed to modify this or to do so through another law. It is an amendment which, in addition - and I have to say this - is based on another amendment which does not have to do with the Anti-Fraud Act and which does affect the 2021 draft State General Budgets, and which was accepted, and also voted, by the majority of the Senate, also with the PSOE's vote in favour. We do not understand this way of proceeding and, therefore, and despite being in accordance with the law, my group has certainly not voted on any of the amendments, more than anything because we believe that it can lead to legal uncertainty in the future in relation to other amendments. Therefore, as a small protest over the procedure, we have not voted on any of the amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u106	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. It returns, after its processing in the Senate, the law of prevention against tax fraud and does so with many surprises. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party has already put this forward. I will begin by assessing some of the compromise amendments that have been approved during the Senate process. On succession pacts - one of the topics that we have perhaps discussed most during the course of the presentation - Citizens tabled an amendment to limit the obligation to maintain the goods received as a result of a succession pact in the heir's estate to a maximum of four years. This is intended to ensure that he does not have a tax penalty and that he does not have an indefinite period of time, which he cannot investigate indefinitely. Why do we believe this? Because this law, with this article, with this amendment, called from the beginning all persons who came to this figure tax defrauders; all those who welcomed that figure were tax defrauders, and that is not the case. We proposed in an amendment here in Congress that a period of four years should be set, a sufficient period to detect the fraudsters, for those who did so to defraud, and for those who did not do so to defraud, but to be able to continue with an activity that was ongoing with their parents, could continue to carry it out and benefit from the work done by their family. Therefore, we tried to make a transactional with the Socialist Party and we were even negotiating so that it could be five years; it seemed good to us, but finally that transactional did not come to a good end. The Socialist Party and the United Nations We may have voted against our amendment, but we welcome once again that it was a good way to detect fraudsters and not to call anyone who came to this figure a fraudster. We therefore welcome their involvement in that transaction, because in the end many people will benefit. Enrolment tax. In the Commission's vote on this law, an amendment was adopted to maintain the way CO2 emissions are calculated in 2020, in order to avoid the covert tax increase involved in the recalculation of European emissions. But the government, as an initiative to support the car sector, decides to table an amendment in the Senate to delete that amendment approved in the Commission. But this is not left here, the PSOE comes to withdraw its amendment because it preferred to deal with Squerra Republicana to - we already know what they usually do - continue to negotiate with independents because they saw that that was much better than benefiting the automotive sector. Don't you think it's better to give stability and a sign of stability and tranquillity to the car sector and to the people who want to cope now with the acquisition of a new vehicle? No, because this government neither helps the automobile industry nor the industry in general. But in Citizens, even with this change that leads to this change in the method of calculation only until the end of the year, we have supported and will continue to support, and I warn you that we will continue to try to bring initiatives and introduce amendments to achieve the objective of modifying that tax. We will also support the transaction for the increase of staff in the staffing of the Tax Agency. And why do we support her? Because one thing we have always supported is that we need more human resources in the Tax Agency to be able to detect tax fraud, to be able to detect that submerged economy that exists and that is the worst fraud there is, because it is a fraud of people who do not pay. This Government always focuses on expressing the payer and not persecuting the one who does not, the one who truly disappoints, the one who pays absolutely nothing. But you know what? We think it's insufficient. We proposed that a study be made of the submerged economy so that these people can do their work properly, know what the goal is, know what amount, what money there is, what activities are involved in that submerged economy. But, no, they prefer to go without having clear goals, and that makes it very difficult for these people to work. We will therefore also continue to work to ensure that this report can be made and consider a clearer objective to fight. But here comes the big surprise, and it is that the Socialist Party, which was asking in 2014 and 2018, when governing the PP, which will lower the VAT for hairdressers, is now proposing initiatives in this Congress, rather in the Senate, with which we all take our hands to the head, because an amendment is presented to reduce the VAT for hairdressers from 21% to 10% with a motivation, in our opinion, correct, and the Socialist Party has used all the means that have been in its hand to avoid it, even things that have never been seen in this House. He presented a manifestation of disconformity and wanted to see it before. The lawyers had to study this matter because it was something unheard of. Finally, the lawyers conclude that yes, that the procedure has passed, that we can vote and that we can rule on this for the rest of the political parties. But what does the Socialist Party do? The drawing of a text approved by a majority of parties that they only intended to fight for the hairdressing sector, which is now, at this time of crisis, seeing that there is much more economy submerged in its activity. We cannot expect anything more from this government, it is something that really impresses. I very much agree with the comrade of the Basque Nationalist Party, because we are really letting our legislative law be stolen in this House. We can even understand that they come with the roller, that they don't want to talk to us, that they don't want to negotiate. Of the few amendments of our political party that have been adopted one has been the customs issue, but because they knew perfectly well that they had been wrong. They are wrong and accept the amendments. Is that negotiating? Is that reaching consensus? Well, look, no, but the last thing is they limit our legislative function. I think we all have to agree on that. This can't be. If an amendment has been voted on by the Senate Bureau, if there is a majority that accepts that step, how does the Government get an approved amendment out of a legislative text? That's what we had to see. It seemed to us that the question of pardons was the beginning...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u107	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u108	Thank you. ... But it was just the beginning, because what remains to be seen is much more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u110	Thank you, Madam President. In the process of this law in Congress, the BNG introduced amendments to articles 30 and 36 which refer to the succession pacts and inheritances in life proper to the civil right in Galicia, which provides for the possibility of carrying out acts of delivery of assets in life of the causer on account of the inheritance. We did so because we understand that these are acts that must be qualified for all purposes, including the prosecutor, as mortis causa. Consequently, it seems to us a mistake that these transfers of assets, which must be taxed through inheritance tax, do so through the IRPF. In addition, this reform invades the skills of Galicia, another turn of centralizing nut. It is clearly unfair to consider that carrying out a legitimate act under Galician civil law and respecting our country's own tax rules can be a practice of tax avoidance. This is also a serious injury to many Galicians who take up this form of inheritance every year and who, unfortunately, in the face of the economic crisis, may find themselves in the need to sell the goods received in order to cope with situations that have arisen, with their vital expenses or to keep a business afloat. After our amendments were unfortunately rejected in the Commission with the vote against the government parties, the PSOE tabled a self-amendment in the Senate. It is the practical assumption that this is a problem. But in the end, if with that wording the consequences can be mitigated, it does not solve either the competition issue or a significant impact on those who make use of a right that assists them, especially in Galicia, and - to say the least - they are not precisely the richest, but the popular classes. I would therefore like to stress that this aspect of the law is absolutely unacceptable to the BNG. It is also unacceptable to veto, in practice, the reduction of VAT for hairdressers and personal image to 10%. We understand that it is of justice. In fact, the BNG tabled an amendment in its day to incorporate it into the General Budgets of the State. Here too, unfortunately, it was rejected by the parties of the Government. Today the PSOE remains alone in its attempt to deny now what it was defending in the opposition, and the worst is that it does so in the most undemocratic way possible, vetoing its vote in this House. That is why we ask you to rectify. In any case, we, the BNG, will continue to work to make this possible sooner than later. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u112	Thank you, President. Two previous issues. First of all, I would like to thank all the fellow members of the paper that we have been working on over a few months on this draft legislation. It's been honest work, it's been fruitful work. Surely not all our expectations have come to a conclusion, certainly not, in any case, I want to thank you all. Second question. When Mrs Oramas tells us the independenceists: this they do to the Canary Islands today will one day do to you. They have not done it several times, Mrs Oramas, and we have not found the support of the Canary Coalition. I'm saying, anyway, to put it on record. This is an ambitious, important piece of legislation that will probably have been short on some issues, but we came with the will to give initial support. We tabled a few - quite a few - amendments, some of which were negotiated, supported and incorporated by parliamentary groups supporting the Government and others not. Then I'll refer to one of them, the registration tax, but we still got to approve them. What we are seeing today are the amendments that come to us from the Senate. Firstly - other groups have done so - I have to regret those that do not come, essentially the one that does not come, which is the VAT of hairdressers, which does not cease to be an anomaly. I believe that the Government is wrong, I tell you sincerely, as it has been wrong other times. Hairdressers' VAT is a VAT that has the majority support to reduce it from 21% to 10%. The arguments I have heard these days that this is not going to impact on the final price are not acceptable, because no one asked the hairdressers when they went from 10% to 21% if they could impact - which they did not - this increase in VAT on the final price. So it's a mistake. We have put forward a number of initiatives in this respect and we are going to persist, because, in the end, those who follow it get it. One example is the registration tax. Mrs Martínez used to say I don't know what about the independenceists, whether or not they were defending the sector. This amendment is from the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party, aware of the situation of the production and distribution of the car, the situation of the industry and the commercialization of the car, being aware of what different employers, trade unions and trade unions in the sector were asking for, proposed this amendment. We put it in the budgets and it was not adopted; we put it in another legislative initiative and it was not adopted; we have persevered and it was adopted in the Commission, it is true that without the support of the government parties, and although the Socialist Party wanted to eliminate it in the Senate - my party and I personally had to hear from the minister and vice-president of the government that this was a demagogic gift - the reality is that the Socialist Party is correcting - we just have to see the text supporting the compromise amendment - and it recognizes a situation that is what it is about the car industry at the moment. We already offered to delimit it in time not six months, but we had estimated a year or a year and a half. In any case, we think it's a good thing. We therefore agree, we voted in favour of the draft, but there are issues on the draft that we do not like and disagree with. In succession pacts, a tax law limits Catalan civil law and that of other autonomous communities. We also understand that the actual payment of 2500 to 1000 euros is a measure for the gallery that will harm a part of the trade and will not solve the problem of tax fraud. In any case, thank you very much and thanks also to those who supported the maintenance of the registration tax as it was proposed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u113	Thank you, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u114	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Tax fraud in the Spanish State results in a loss of €70 billion each year, more than twice the budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya, a fraud that violates the fairness of the tax system and drastically reduces the welfare state. That is why the fight against fraud and tax evasion must be a basic priority of any progressive government, and that is what we understand. We have already said in the debate on the presentation of this law to the Commission that, in our view, we are faced with a new missed opportunity, and there are already a few. They had the option of making a new law on tax fraud more ambitious, progressive, with measures on the left of a large scale, providing useful and powerful tools to the political and technical bodies that fight against fraud and tax evasion in the Spanish State. But they resisted. They did not want to enter into negotiations with the left-wing parties and take advantage of this majority. They've preferred a minimum law and set up a majority with right-wing parties, and that's it. They did not want to negotiate on the qualification of finance technicians to solve one of the main problems of the fight against fraud and tax evasion in the Spanish State. It is a scandal that, at present, only 20% of tax inspectors are dedicated to investigating large companies and fortunes when they produce 75% of fraud cases. They did not want to negotiate on sharing tax data between the Spanish Agency and the tax agencies of the territories. Do you really want a decentralized state? They share tax data, because only with this information can we effectively fight tax fraud. Nor did they want to negotiate on an essential issue such as the increase in tax administrations' staffing to match the European average. The Spanish State occupies the shameful penultimate position in the European ranking of employee numbers in European tax administrations. How is it intended to combat fraud and tax evasion without the necessary human resources? The amendment we tabled in this regard was incorporated into the Senate by a large majority and seeks to ensure that within eight years the tax administrations' staffing is assimilated to the European average. Increasing the human resources allocated to the fight against tax fraud is an essential issue and we therefore ask you to vote in favour. In dealing with this law in the Senate, we have witnessed a shameful spectacle by the government, which at least we can describe as a genuine cacicada. And I am referring to the compromise amendment of several parliamentary groups of the Senate for the reduction of VAT in the personal image sector which, unilaterally, the President of the Senate has decided to cancel once already voted and approved. They have sought, through the Speaker of the Senate, to impose their will on a vote passed by a parliamentary majority, torpedoing the separation of powers. Invoking an article of the Constitution, the Speaker of a House has decided to annul a democratic vote by the majority of parliamentary groups, simply because the Government does not like it. Long live the separation of powers! Gentlemen of the PSOE, do you realize that you have created a very dangerous precedent? Where is the Legislature that we represent all Members, Senators and Senators, if the Speaker of a House can unilaterally cancel and when she wants a democratic vote because she simply doesn't like the government? Do you realize the cacicada you've made? Rethink and allow the possibility for this House to vote on this amendment. And if you don't like to lose votes, it's very easy, negotiate, don't impose; you have 155 Members, you have a few to reach a majority. Dialogue and negotiation, do not impose by cacicadas with anti-democratic retaste. The Republican Group supports the personal image sector in its demand to reduce VAT and encourages them to continue their mobilizations. You know, by Republican Left, it won't be. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u115	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u116	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. I would like to begin by extending my thanks also to my colleagues for the presentation of this law to the Finance Commission, a law I believe is very important for the immediate future of our country. My group voted in favour of this law on measures against tax fraud and will now also do so with the amendments that come from the Senate. I do not think anyone can doubt that, objectively, the adoption of this text is a step forward - I would say even historic - and I will try to explain it to the right extent. As you well know, everything starts in 2013, when the OECD draws up the BEPS Plan, aimed at avoiding erosion of tax bases and transfer of profits. Many OECD States were already suffering from this problem, which, by the way, has only worsened. Already then, in 2015, the OECD estimated the presence of these erosions between 4 and 10 % of corporate tax collection worldwide and this involved, in global terms, between $100,000 and $240 billion per year. Today, according to the latest report published by the Tax Justice Network, the Tax Justice Network, which has already been produced with the latest OECD data, the world loses more than $427 billion in taxes due to international tax abuse. Of these, more than half, 245 000, are lost because multinational companies transfer profits to tax havens. The OECD European countries participated in that debate in an enthusiastic way, I would say, on their own account. In fact, following the completion and publication of the famous BEPS Plan, the European Council draws up Directive 216/1164, which is in fact the origin of the law we are currently discussing. The Council then said that it was necessary to ensure the payment of the tax where profits and value are generated, to strengthen the average level of protection against abusive tax planning and to lay down rules against the erosion of tax bases in the internal market and the transfer of profits outside it. Nothing more relevant than what was quoted here by the Council, in our view. The directive, in fact, covered various areas - in total five - and, among them, the establishment of a general anti-abuse rule, the treatment of so-called hybrid asymmetries - you will recall that we have already legislated on this - or the limitation of the deductibility of interests. However, two other substantial elements of that directive were missing: basically, a new regime of international tax transparency and the regulation of what is called exit taxation. There is no doubt that the legal text before us today is moving forward on these two elements. But why is it necessary to move forward? Here the data, ladies and gentlemen, are eloquent: between 25,000 and 45 billion euros are squandered annually by the defrauders in Spain, in our country. Experts' estimates place the tax fraud stock exchange in our country between 40,000 and 60 billion euros. That is, money that we lose all and all precisely because of the action of some - I would call them, at least, insolidaries -. It is true that the tax fraud detected has been reduced last year by up to 37%, and it is also true that the inspections have suffered in their own effectiveness by the pandemic, and it was to some extent logical that we would find such a result for this year. In any case, we must draw attention to these kinds of needs that the Spanish tax bank has, precisely to legislate as soon as possible in the sense that we are doing it today; and to do so, in addition, to converge with the policies that are already being implemented in other European countries or that are being discussed at multilateral tables. Because - we have always said this - it will not be possible to face the great fiscal challenge of modern states if it is not with joint action. In these times, ladies and gentlemen, a State acting alone cannot be effective in this field. It is essential that we can work in the field of these international forums, although it is true - we have already denounced it in this very House - that they usually move with an exasperating slowness, always much later and much slower than reality itself demands. That is why we have also been in favour of Spain taking unilateral measures, in the hope that in the future we will be able to converge with the rest of the European countries in certain policies. But that convergence, as I say, is the condition of possibility for a just and, above all, effective future tax system. Having said that, I believe that the importance of taking forward such a law and finally transposing the 2016 directive, to which I have just referred, is justified. But I would not like to end this intervention without making a brief mention of some of the contents of the law incorporated in this parliamentary procedure, as well as of the negotiation that has led to this final text. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment negotiated in the Senate to ensure convergence with Europe, in order to provide tax administrations with more staff, as Mr Margall said. We believe, as I say, Mr Margall, that this is a good, necessary amendment and will undoubtedly contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of this very law. Certainly, not only is the human factor decisive for a more effective management of the public coffers, but it is the main factor, ahead of the technological one. And we cannot handle the ratios of technicians per taxpayer that are doubled, or almost tripled, by some neighbouring countries, as is the case with Germany, let alone if we are talking in a chapter as decisive as it is in the fight against fraud. Similarly, we consider the agreement reached in the Senate on inheritance agreements to be satisfactory, so that a five-year period is established in which the property acquired will be subordinated to the value and date of the acquisition of the cause. We believe, in this respect, that this agreement is balanced to the right extent. But it is also true that the negotiation of this text has been somewhat frustrating - I must admit - and exasperating for moments. We regret, for example, that the ministry did not meet a demand, in our fair view, what is the study of profiles and workloads of the different professional categories of technicians. I always insist that political debates acquire a somewhat more dramatic dimension once the things of parné, pasta, money, the mighty gentleman are introduced, and this has been a good test. But that is precisely why, and when we are only months away for the Executive to present its preliminary draft law on State General Budgets, the majority of this House which supports the Government must make a great deal of effort, I believe, to understand each other. We know that on the other side, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing but screams and scarecrows. Therefore, either we arrange between ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, or this does not fix God either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u118	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We are debating today the draft law on combating tax fraud, which in itself is a fraud. First, by how he arrived in this House on May 18th at the so-called presentation. Let's go, of all but a presentation!, because no topic could be exposed, but the government applied the totalitarian roller to which we are accustomed, since the 248 amendments that were presented already brought them agreed with their partners of the Basque Nationalist Party and the wild card they use for once, which is no other than that of the Cantabrian Regionalist Party, securing the majority and discarding those of the rest, without even listening to the spokespersons. The following week the Committee on Finance was taken to the Committee on Finance, in which the parliamentary groups, in ten minutes, had to table the amendments, insufficient time to be able to discuss them, when Rule 114 of the House's Rules of Procedure states: After the report of the presentation, the debate in the Commission, which will be made article by article, will begin. Ladies and gentlemen, this fact has never occurred at any time and never occurred, and the excuse seems to be that it has always been done this way. But what an argument this is! This is the Congress of Deputies and the constitutional body that represents the Spanish people, not a machine to make laws like churros. More serious, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] Second, because of the bludgeoning and mixing of laws. It includes the transposition of a Community directive laying down tax avoidance rules relating to the so-called exit tax and international tax transparency, and taking advantage of and including the amendment of, nothing more and nothing less, 17 tax rules, including the regulation of the game, in which, frankly, every parliamentary group here has included what it has wanted and, in many cases, is not closely related to the so-called tax avoidance and anti-fraud measures. And I say this because of the unilateral abolition in the Senate of the transactional amendment of the VAT reduction from 21 % to 10 % in the hairdressing service, to which I shall refer later. Third, so it encloses and hides that law, which is a new fiscal hack to the Spaniards, a robbery, a master coup. Eliminate the 60 % reduction to which owners who rent a property are entitled solely because they do not declare it in self-liquidation or because they miscalculate both revenue and expenditure. It penalizes the purchaser of real estate for succession pacts. There is a significant change in the valuation of real estate, both in the property transfer tax and in the inheritance and donation tax and in the property tax, in such a way that the taxable basis of these taxes will not be the real value of real estate, but the so-called reference value, which will be determined by the General Directorate of the Catastro and, in this way, must be the taxpayer who demonstrates the real value, since the Catastro will determine the value from the prices of real estate transactions and will not take into account the state of the real estate by not checking it on the spot. In short, the Catastro - that is, the Government - will determine the value for which you must tax, which will mean greater collection and, therefore, a robbery in the pocket of all the Spaniards. It limits cash payments, conditioning the freedom of those who control their family economy more efficiently. This law rescues the so-called kick at the door, so that inspectors may enter the homes without notice to the taxpayer, provided that they have a judicial authorization and are duly justified. But the controversial thing about this intrusion into the home is that a Supreme Court ruling last fall ruled that the inspectors should notify the taxpayer before they enter the home, so that reform of the General Tax Act has unconstitutionality. Special mention, which has gone unnoticed, is the third additional provision, on the tax regime of the Catalan Institute of Finance, to which the same tax regime as that of the Institute of Official Credit will apply. And this is nothing more than a fiscal gateway that requires Esquerra Republicana to finance the Catalan ICO, but, of course, this provision did fit into this law and not the reduction of VAT for hairdressers. I will stop here, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, to make the historic journey of a claim that the sector has been demanding for years. First, in 2012, when Mariano Rajoy's government raised VAT for hairdressers from 8 to 21 per cent, that is, 13 points, which could not pass on to its customers and closed eight thousand hairdressers; therefore, there was an increase in the submerged economy. Secondly, in 2014 the Socialist Group presented a non-law proposal claiming or, better yet, returning the VAT for hairdressers. Third, already in 2018 the Socialist Group, in the Committee on Health, Equality and Consumption, presented the same non-law proposal for the reduction of VAT for hairdressers, with the vote against the People's Group. Such approval implies an express mandate to the House which Mr Rajoy's Government was able to carry out and did not do so. We're talking about 2018. What has changed, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, until 2020, when this parliamentary group presents in the Committee on Finance the same proposal that the Socialist Group put forward in 2014 and 2018, with the vote against the Socialist Group? In March this year it went ahead in the Commission with the vote against the Socialist Group and the support of the majority of the parties. Last week, in the Senate, there was a legislative latrociny by unilaterally withdrawing a compromise amendment adopted by all the parliamentary groups, being the first time that a vote was cancelled on this route, with the excuse, first, that it had no room for not affecting the law and, second, for affecting the budgets, being false both statements because the amendment had been included in a section of VAT, because it relates to the fact that the current VAT of hairdressers has led to an increase in the submerged economy, and does not affect the budgets because this measure entered into force in January 2022, so, ladies of the People's Group, the Socialist Group and the rest of the groups involved, you are hypocrites, you are the new Pharisees of the 21st century, you have been portrayed and seen for sentencing. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u119	Thank you, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are now at the final stage of a draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud, which has had seven months to stop its processing, which carries with it a hidden increase in taxes and which also includes an unjustified cut in individual freedoms, it being particularly serious that it is possible to enter a home under suspicion of accounting irregularities, even though there are judgments against it. Moreover - and this is serious - the pacts of succession or inheritance in life are penalized, which represents a new attack on the competences of the autonomous communities by this Government. In this respect, the amendment in the Senate improves the initial text, but the solution to limit the tax penalty to five years continues to invade autonomous powers in fiscal and legislative matters against civil law in Galicia, Balearic Islands, Aragon and Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the succession pacts have nature mortis cause. The civil law of these autonomous communities equates the living inheritance with the death inheritance and their financial autonomy empowers them to regulate their tax treatment. The bill therefore invades autonomous powers by including in the IRPF a change in the taxation of succession pacts. In addition, the law gives a different tax treatment to these two legal businesses which have the same nature and therefore violates the principles of equality and neutrality of the tax system. But let us not be fooled, in substance what underlies it is the presumption of guilt of those who resort to the inheritances in life, since the Socialist Party sees tax fraud in all of them. And this subject the heirs to the most absolute defencelessness, because a preventive law would apply to them, very proper to totalitarian regimes. This presumption of guilt continues to be a legal fiction that shows that the Socialist Party is unaware of the meaning and purpose of the succession pacts. Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of these pacts is in advance of inheritance before the death of the cause. It is a succession and not a donation, in many cases, to ensure the care of the elderly, to undertake a professional activity or to acquire another good, such as housing. Spain has the highest youth unemployment rate in the European Union, around 40%. For this reason, there are many young people who come to the succession covenants to be able to direct their lives. And what does this government do? Instead of helping them, it penalizes them with more taxes, considering - and here's the big deal - that all of them are supposed to be defrauders or simple testaferros. That's right, it penalizes them in 2021, but in their fantasy about 2050 promises them an inheritance for all of them. And then they'll wonder why young people turn away from the Socialist Party and trust the People's Party more and more. Ladies and gentlemen, this law provides for a legal fiction to prejudice the usefulness of a figure as important and rooted in several autonomous communities as the succession pacts are and, in addition, autonomous competences are invaded. They therefore expect that, from Galicia, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo will use all the legal resources available to it to protect its competences and defend the interests of the Galicians, something which should also be done by the Socialist Governments of Francina Armengol in Balearic Islands and Javier Lambán in Aragon, but I am afraid that they will put the interests of their party before those of their citizens. [[applause]] With regard to the rest of the amendments, I have to say that they are all there, but they are not all there, because the Government and the President of the Senate, Socialist Pilar Llop, in another exercise of authoritarianism and mockery of democracy, have vetoed the incorporation of an amendment approved by the plenary of the Senate by a majority, which called for the reduction of VAT to the personal image sector from 21 to 10 % and which did not affect the current budget year. Another scandal by Pedro Sánchez in his obsession with controlling every independent institution: CIS, Spanish Television, Prosecutor's Office, State Advocate, and now it is up to the Senate and the Court of Auditors. This amendment restores to the sector the reduced rate that the People's Party had temporarily raised to the ordinary rate to avoid intervention by our country and to cover the hole of more than 70 billion that the Zapatero government left us in 2011. Curiously, the Socialist Party, which from the opposition supported this fall, from the government is working to boycott it. And that's why we don't understand Mr. Sanchez. What have the hairdressers done to them? Why is it so hard on this sector? They exclude them from direct aid, harm them with the new electricity tariff and now deny them a bill passed in the Senate with a veto of dubious legality and certain immorality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with professionals who have had exemplary behaviour during the pandemic. They have adapted their halls to the anti-COVID measures, keeping them 100 per cent safe; they have increased their costs and have not risen their prices, and now, who are in a critical situation and are asking for their help, the government is turning their backs on them. More than 240,000 families depend on the personal image sector. According to its own data, and in relation to 2019, more than 50,000 jobs have been lost and more than 30% of its rooms closed; moreover, its billing has fallen by 37% in the first quarter of this year and, on the contrary, the submerged economy has increased considerably - and remember that this law intends to fight it -. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is dramatic for professionals who are mostly self-employed women and Spain already bears one of the highest rates of female unemployment in the European Union. They no longer aggravate the situation and lower VAT to 10%; they are still in time to avoid a loss of 145 million to the public coffers, the closure of 20 000 halls and the destruction of 47,000 more jobs, because, if this government is to be put in place, that 10% fall is going to occur, because from the People's Party we are not going to stop until we achieve it. I'm done, President. In conclusion, I would like to say that even if it is pursued for a good purpose, such as combating tax fraud, it incorporates a series of measures that go contrary to what the country needs: it cuts fundamental freedoms, it has a hidden rise in taxes, it invades the competences of the autonomous communities, it violates the civil law of some of them, it puts obstacles to young people being able to direct their lives and it does not incorporate the VAT reduction into the personal image sector. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have not given our support to this law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, every debate has its purpose and its time, and today's debate is to culminate in the incorporation of amendments that the Senate has referred to us with the adoption of an important law that aims to double the transposition of the European Union Directive to combat circumvention practices and incorporate measures to prevent and combat tax fraud. That is the substantive debate which we have and which the Socialist Group wants to give prominence to. There are many reasons to support this law and none to justify, in terms of defending the general interest, paralyzing it or not supporting it, reasons based on the principles of solidarity, justice and equity. [[Applauds]] Fraudulent behaviours are totally unfair practices with the rest of the citizens, with the rest of the taxpayers we do meet our tax obligations, and are particularly insolidary at a time like the current one, in which we are so aware of the importance of having sufficient public revenue to finance our health system, but also to be able to deal with country-specific contingencies and challenges. More than ever, we have an obligation to legislate in order to move forward in the fight against this type of fraudulent practice, and with this law we certainly move forward, no matter how much some weigh. The disqualifications of the right are nothing more than the repeated expression of their destructive tactics in their strategy of harassment and overthrowing the Government that began from the first day of the legislature. [[Applauds]] We have not heard any constructive input, just blackmail, threats and poor arguments that corroborate your willingness to vote against this law, regardless of the text that would have arrived here, to this Congress. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not look for excuses; you have never believed in the fight against tax fraud. Their tax amnesties, their cutbacks on the tax agency staffs gave them away, and now their vote negative to this law, too. [[shows a graph]] Because as you passed unconstitutional, unjust and insolidary tax amnesties, more taxes went up and, in addition, applied more cuts in the midst of the crisis. In this law, on the contrary, we expressly prohibit tax amnesty, because they break the principle of tax justice set out in the Spanish Constitution, and ban the production and use of dual-use software that allows the manipulation of accounting and management data, you know, to avoid double-accounting, boxes B. Are these not the real reasons why they do not like this law and that is why they intend to cover up the debate with other topics? Is that why they intend to include, after having raised VAT to the hairdressers, that debate in the Senate in a twisting and anti-regulatory way? Is that the real justification they have? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law is crucial because it includes measures aligned with the rest of the European countries to meet one of the great challenges of our era: to protect tax collection from the global economic context which makes it possible to pay less than it is and to pay less where it is. To this end, we incorporate the international tax transparency regime, the so-called exit tax, the adequacy of the term tax havens of non-cooperative jurisdictions to deal precisely with the threats posed by tax planning and the transfer of profits to countries with lower taxation. And lastly - yes, ladies and gentlemen, because after listening to you, I am very drawn to your attention - we have incorporated more than forty improvements into this law, six of them in the Senate, the result of a search for consensus. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to acknowledge and thank the work of all those groups, collectives and institutions which, with their contributions, have enabled us to improve this law. I would like to remind you that in Congress, among many other issues, we have made better use of the responsibility of customs agents, incorporated measures against irregular trafficking in raw tobacco and made progress in limiting the use of cash. This is because we consider that the majority of everyday purchases are for values of less than EUR 1000 and because we consider it reasonable to accompany the extraordinary costs of more than EUR 1000 of traceability, as a measure to prevent fraud and facilitate tax investigations. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, think about it, how many of you have in your pocket 1000 euros in cash? Think about it. The answer says it all. Now, the amendments that have come from the Senate. As stated in article 90.2 of the Spanish Constitution, we have to take a decision on the amendments that have come from the Senate. Out of respect for this House and its resolutions, I will focus on some of the issues that have come, but forward to them that we will vote affirmatively on all the amendments that have come to us from the Senate. Among them, I would like to highlight how we have improved the language used by the law in inclusive terms, also how we have improved the commitment to increase staff in tax administrations and how we have accommodated a COVID measure on film productions across the country. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, respecting the differential fact that the Canary Islands has, because it may have more deduction than the rest of the peninsula. We therefore respect the Canary Islands, as it could not be otherwise. We also improve the measures relating to the succession pacts, which are respectful of civil rights, which have been improved by incorporating a five-year period to prevent them from being used for the sole purpose of avoiding paying gains. That is why I would like to highlight improvements which we will, of course, vote in favour. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is the result of a negotiation process - yes, negotiation - and that we approve it with the pride of helping to protect public revenues to strengthen the welfare state; with the pride of ending a session in which we have managed to pass laws that address the great challenges of the country, that advance in social justice and fiscal justice; and with the pride of a government that in the midst of the crisis brings solutions to citizens, that brings more agreement and more opportunities for the future with an outstanding Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Thank you very much for all this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorised to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, the fourth secretary of the Bureau will read out an institutional statement in support of the World Summit of Blindness.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies in support of the World Summit of the Blind Madrid 2021. The World Summit of Blindness Madrid 2021 is a world meeting organized by the Social Group ONCE, positioning Spain as a world reference and protagonist of the inclusion of persons with disabilities, and which will include the General Assembly of the World Blind Union and the International Council of Educators of Persons with Visual Disabilities. It is a global and accessible face-to-face and online congress aimed at addressing the important challenges and challenges faced by blind people with low vision in the face of the serious crisis resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. There are about 4,000 registered people from over one hundred and ninety countries. The aim of the Madrid 2021 World Summit of Blindness is to share the experiences and practices developed over the past five years and, in particular, the start-ups to combat the effects of the pandemic on all spheres of life of blind people and with a low vision of the whole planet. It will also allow us to analyze the achievements achieved, the challenges experienced and set priorities in this new era that begins, so that people who are blind and conflate vision do not lag behind in the digital revolution, accentuated in these months. On the other hand, new strategies will be worked out to give visibility to the reality of the collective and, above all, to promote everything that helps to materialize a central objective: to create a new vision of blindness, to achieve its full participation in any aspect of vital development. At the World Summit of the Blind Madrid 2021 the challenges and objectives are focused on posing and intervening in the agenda of public reconstruction policies, in the strategies of companies and in the awareness of civil society. The Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the 2021 World Summit of Blindness held in Madrid, an international movement in which society as a whole has become aware of its commitment to people, to pursue progress in improving living conditions, and the rights of more than 285 million blind people around the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u127	We shall begin the voting. Senate amendments: Bill on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud, transposing Council Directive 2016/1164 of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market, amending various tax rules and regulating gambling. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to paragraph VI of the preamble, to the third article and to the first transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 240 telematics votes, 339; 64 plus 130 telematics votes, 194; against 35 plus 108 telematics votes, 143; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u128	The amendments were therefore adopted. Amendment to the fifth additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 240 telematics votes, 339; 64 plus 130 telematics votes, 194; 52 telematics votes, abstentions, 35 plus 58 telematics votes, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u129	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment introducing a new additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 240 telematics votes, 339; 99 plus 187 telematics votes, 286; 52 telematics votes, abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u130	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment to the final provision first. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 240 telematics votes, 339; 64 plus 142 telematics votes, 206; against 35 plus 41 telematics votes, 76; abstentions, 57 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u131	The amendment was therefore adopted. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 98 plus 235 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 98 plus 180 telematics votes, 278; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-30-CD210630.u132	The amendments were therefore adopted. Thank you all very much. Good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was five and forty minutes in the afternoon.
