ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point concerning the Commission's opinion on the proposal for a supplementary organic law amending Act No. 20/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Civil Registry, amending the Organic Act No. 6/1985 of 1 July 2011 on the Judiciary and amending the Organic Act No. 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code. [[formerly known as the proposed supplementary organic law to the law amending Act No. 20/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Civil Registry amending the Organic Act No. 6/1985 of 1 July 2011 on the Judiciary]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u2	Thank you very much, President. I simply wish to express our support for the proposal, following the fully satisfactory agreement reached in the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u4	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. We are already at the final stage of the process of the Civil Registry Act, now with this law complementary to the Organic Law of the Judiciary, to determine the powers in the matter of civil registration of lawyers of the Administration of Justice. I do not think it is necessary to recall the history of the processing of this law, which began with a law ten years ago by the Zapatero government. Subsequently, the People's Party Government continued with the technique of kicking it forward; no one takes the bull by the horns and no one wants to solve the problem, it is extended, extended and its entry into force extended. When we have been dealing with this law in the Commission, I think we have all been aware of the problem that in the last ten years the two groups that have governed Spain have created us in a public service that is essential and indispensable, which refers to the marital status of people; how people are integrated into the State, into the family; what is their ability to act. And it is also indispensable for the numerous collectives who work in these civil registers in all the peoples of Spain, who believe that all the parliamentary groups have come to tell us their sorrows. These are precisely the amendments that we have tabled in the area of civil registration, those that were expressed to us by the groups that were affected by the first drafts of the law, because when the bill was submitted for consideration, it actually suffers from many defects and posed many problems. Even in depopulation by depriving small rural areas of administrative services. It has been long overdue, but of course I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice of the Socialist Party here for having faced the problem, for having had such a great deal of bargaining, for the great effort the Ministry of Justice has made to negotiate and include most of the amendments which, in good faith and on such a technical matter, which in general has to be left out of politics, all the groups have tabled, and also those of Citizens. Yes, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill is one of the typical vices of the Socialist Party, and that it always presents proposals for legislation through the parliamentary group and not bills through the Government, and ultimately deprives us of knowing the technical criterion of the specialized bodies in this matter, not to mention again, because it seems that we have already been forgotten, to which we even conceal the opinions of the Council of State and not follow them in other subjects, but to present draft laws, because it seems that you are always using these traps to deprive us of this technical criterion. As I say, the need to maintain as a public service the Civil Registry has been raised or established in this bill; the pretensions aimed at the privatization of the service and the access of all citizens universal, public and free, a 21st century Civil Registry have already disappeared. I would also like to highlight the problem that has been raised with us in the Commission, and that is that the Government has vetoed the possibility of increasing public spending many of the amendments that we have tabled by the groups. He is not here, but I tell him from here and I will tell the Minister of Justice once and for all, both in plenary and in the Commission: justice needs money. It is very well the organization, the Civil Registry has been very nice, the amendments of the groups have been accepted, but since we do not put money this is going to stay on wet paper, and these vetoes that have been raised regarding those amendments that raised the increase in expenditure, indeed they also show us that the Government does not seem to have much interest in putting money, especially in developing the computer tool of the registers, especially in equipping the registers with sufficient staffing, especially in increasing the network of offices of the registry, which is how we will truly get the Civil Registry to work and be effectively a public service. I get an idea from this, and I'm afraid there won't be too much money for justice, just as we've been used to for forty years. Many things have been corrected, and the position of Civil Registry Officer has been left to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, of course, since the initial draft did not provide for this possibility. I have already indicated some of the shortcomings, but there is one thing, one thing in which we disagree and which certainly does not justify an opposition in this atmosphere of consensus that we have achieved, and which is something that we have highlighted many parliamentary groups, and that is that those in charge of the Civil Registry who are exclusive offices are appointed by the system of free designation, when the logical thing - and precisely the draft law on the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that we are seeing here - is that the lawyers of the Administration of Justice have the same legal regime when they are in the civil registers that when they are in the public service of justice, in the courts and courts - it would have been that this provision of these posts would have been carried out by the ordinary system of provision and not by the system of free designation. Here the ministry has not yielded, because it has said that this was the only way to give entry, to give some role to the autonomous communities, I believe that in a wrong way, absolutely wrong, because in the end we have designed a Civil Registry that is an administrative body that depends on the administration of the State and the powers of providing personal and material resources of the autonomous communities, neither in justice, do not carry with it the one involved in the appointment of judges or any other office. I don't know why we have to establish this provision in the Civil Registry. In any case, I am happy with the consensus, and I say to you that we should repeat this consensus every time we need it, that we should put an end to civil war, to the politics of the sides, because in this way they will certainly count on Citizens for all the projects that are useful to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u6	Thank you, Madam President. We join in congratulating this House as a whole on the way in which this law has been worked out in general. We believe that the work that has been carried out by the ministry and the proposing group to try to integrate, in different compromise proposals, all the amendments that had been tabled by the various groups, beyond VOX's position, which presented a series of amendments that could not be accepted on purely ideological grounds and which was probably not in the area where they had to be raised. The rest of the groups in the House believe that they have acted responsibly and in accordance with the seriousness required by the issue. With regard to the proposal for a supplementary organic law which is being debated today, simply, as has already been said, we show our favourable view, firstly, because there was a general consensus for it, and secondly, because we understand that it constitutes the full consolidation of the Civil Registry within the Administration of Justice and its conduct by the staff of that Administration, which was one of our pretensions and one of our approaches. At the general level - we said it here - we understood that the reform of the Civil Registry Act of 2011, before its effective entry into force, was necessary. We also said that it seemed to us that what had been proposed by the proposing group was in the right direction, and that some aspect would still have to be worked on during its processing process. That's how it's done. We tabled twenty-three amendments jointly with the proposing group, and most of them have finally been incorporated into the final text that has already been referred to the Senate. We are therefore pleased that some of the objectives that we understood to be priorities have been achieved: of course, that it continues to be given a public character, free of charge and managed by public employees to the register; that the Civil Registry, within which it is de-judicialized, is equally organizationally incardinated within the Administration of Justice and that it has a public service vision; and that there were doubts about the territorial vertebration of the register with the first proposal. We understood that it was necessary to ensure full territorial accessibility and continuity, above all, of jobs. These were issues that were of concern to us throughout the process, ensuring the labour rights of all women workers, and we understand that that has finally also been collected and we are satisfied with that. And of course also the framework of collaboration between the different public administrations within a system of co-governance, respecting the competences that some communities already had in this field and giving them continuity. So we are generally satisfied with the process, with the changes that have taken place. There are a few small issues that we are trying to make them and that we have finally failed to achieve. For example, what has already been mentioned about the free appointment of those in charge of the central and exclusive registry office, and also an issue that we were concerned that appeared in an amendment by Bildu, which was the role that notaries will have in dealing with cases prior to civil marriage. We understood, as proposed by the Euskal Group's amendment Herria Bildu, that this may in some way imply a small privatization of the service, while people who can pay for it will have priority over others who cannot do so. And as the spokesman for the Citizens Group has also said, they are in no way grounds for being against the law, and we will therefore vote in favour. Without further ado, I simply want to thank the proposing group again for the collaborative work, the ministry and all the groups, and we hope that this dynamic is possible and repeated in new laws that are being processed, and in general to VOX I have to tell you that we understand that they want to kick ideologically but please do so when you touch. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Honrubia, it is not an ideological battle, it is actually a technical intervention that we made in the Civil Registry presentation. [[Applauds]] We already know the model of Civil Registry that socialists and communists like: a Civil Registry Frankenstein, Frankenstein as the Government of Spain. VOX has intervened in the presentation with the best will to reach agreements and to bring good things to the model of the Civil Registry, but, for a change, we have met with the wall of intolerance and sectarianism. It will be because - as some socialist leader has said - we are not human. Whether you have an efficient, professionalized and well-structured record or content the philotetra and coup partners, you have chosen the second; you don't mind putting an essential public service for the lives of the Spaniards in the hands of those who hate Spain, because for your lordships the ideology is more important than the quality of public services. [[Applauds]] Today we are being brought here this clumsy proposal for an organic law to reform that of the Judiciary - it is true that it adheres to another of the Penal Code against which we have nothing, but which you have sealed in unity of destiny -, and from the beginning we have been insisting that you are mistaken in the nature that you attribute to the office of the Civil Registry. If anything is obvious, the new Civil Registry is no longer the Administration of Justice, Mr Honrubia, it is not the Administration of Justice, and you know it. That's why he new article 439 bis makes a rocambolesque definition of the Civil Registry office. He said that it was a unit not integrated into the Judicial Office, which was set up in the field of the organization of the Administration of Justice. There's no one who understands this. Would it not be easier to recognize that the new model of the Civil Registry is a public service of a governmental nature, integrated into the Ministry of Justice? It's simpler, isn't it? It's just that it responds to reality. Well, no, it's all right for the autonomies to get their hands on, it's all right to build their Frankenstein Civil Registry. [[Applauds]] But, no doubt, the prize is borne by the chaotic and unfortunate regulation you have made of the figure of the civil registry officer. They are wrong to establish a regime of free designation as a form of provision for these places, and they are wrong to give autonomy the power to propose the appointment of officers. You know why? Because with this system you engage the registry system in legal uncertainty and politicization. It would have been good for you to take a look at articles 450 and 460 of the organic law to see what the legal reality of the legal body of Justice lawyers is, but this may be asking too much. In a model designed to de-judicialize civil records, there is no point in keeping judges in positions of trustee. Since when is it acceptable for members of the judiciary to be on the orders of the executive branch? But you do so so badly that you have even forgotten to reform Article 351 of the Organic Law and, without this reform, the judges will not be able to be in charge of the Civil Registry service in a special service situation. Nor have they agreed that article 378 guarantees the immobility of the members of the judiciary in respect of the places they occupy and, of course, they have not fallen into the detail that it is not in accordance with the law to discriminate against judges on the basis of their time in a destination. You are in such a hurry to submit to the judges who no longer hold the forms. With the model you are proposing you will have, we will all have two types of Civil Registry Officer, according to the salary you pay: the poor, who will be the lawyers of Justice, and the less poor, who will be the judges, despite occupying the same post and despite doing the same job. The consequence will be wage discrimination and, therefore, wage gap, but indeed, and not by introducing an amendment to link salaries to RPT which does not change anything. [[applause]] But why are you in this mess? What do you guys get out of all this? Finally, in the reforms introduced in articles 520 and 522 of the Organic Law you have removed from a pen two units of the Administration of Justice where, to this day, you could serve the officials of Justice, which are the institutes of Legal Medicine and the Institute of Toxicology. The Ministry of Justice, the cabinet of the minister, tells us that, thanks to the alert that VOX gave at the time, this will correct it. Welcome; it seems to us very good that you correct this error thanks to our contribution which, as you see, at least has been valuable; but it would certainly have been much better if you had corrected everything from the beginning. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The current Civil Registry in Spain began on January 1, 1871; by chance or not, it is 2021 and we will commemorate - or are commemorating - the 150th anniversary of the creation of the same, with implementation throughout Spain; a milestone that demonstrates the complex and extraordinary tool that is giving faith, record advertising and legal certainty to all the facts relating to the marital status of the people. This Tuesday, in the Committee on Justice, with a large majority, we approved the proposal for a law that will amend the current Civil Registry Act of 2011; and today in plenary the proposal for an organic law that amends the articles of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that affect the Civil Registry will also be approved by a large majority. As I said to them, it was in 2011 that this profound reform of the Civil Registry began, whose previous law dates back to 1957, a difficult task because, as I said to them, the registry institution had to accommodate the new social, political, economic reality, the fruit of our modern Spain, the fruit of our constitutional Spain. As a curious fact for those who like the coincidences in the dates and in the facts, chance or not, the previous reform of the Civil Registry, which we are talking about today, of 2011, will be able to find it in the Official Gazette of the General Courts of May 2011, with a government in socialist Spain, before autonomous elections, before general elections; and the end already know it; chance or not, besides voting in favour of the reform, you already know that the Spaniards that year chose freedom against socialism, and of course freedom against communism. [[Applauds]] Casualty or not, we're here today too. [[The Lord]] And what is a reality, and the Member who speaks to you in September, as established in this rostrum, is that in taking into consideration the proposal for a civil registration law presented by the Socialist Group we vote in favour, with the aim of enriching the text in the paper with our amendments, through three objectives. The first is to maintain the Civil Registry as a public service, free of charge and modern. This reform of the Civil Registry must indeed be recognized as preserving the nature of the Civil Registry as a public service and free of charge. I do not deny that we are concerned and that we will be alert to the digitization of the recorded data, and remember that already from the stage of amendments to the General Budgets of the State in my group we demand to increase the resources to facilitate and speed up the effective service of the computer applications that must operate upon the entry into force of this law, which is near in the calendar. The second of the objectives was to maintain the Civil Registry as a public service, free of charge and modern in the territory, especially in the most deprived population groups; I speak of the municipal sphere. In the already known structure of the Civil Registry, central office, general and consular offices, with the reform, the partner offices of the Civil Registry and access points in the municipalities have a key role to play. From the People's Party we have made every effort to make the proposing group understand the reality of our territory, an unstoppable red line for us, because those who do not know our peoples do not know Spain and do not know the importance of the public services that have to be there, so that there will be life there. [[Applauds]] We have succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, and today is an important day thanks to the amendments of the People's Party and its subsequent consensus with the proposing group and the Ministry of Justice. The People's Party group today will ensure that the Civil Registry network and services remain in the municipalities, as we have already proposed and established since 2019, in September. In addition, its functions are expressly reflected in the reform, as we ask: to receive in person and electronically requests, declarations or forms from the Civil Registry, to inform citizens of the procedures of the Civil Registry, to issue certificates of registered seats. And the third of our conditions was the staff in charge of the Civil Registry, the protection of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, who guarantee the compliance with the principles of legality, officiality, publicity and accuracy that every citizen requires in his registration, a figure that in this reform requires a recognition of the work that they will have to add to the already jurisdictional that the lawyers of the Administration of Justice will have to do, so it seems reasonable to us to review their salaries, that we knew at the last moment through an amendment that the People's Party also transferred to the ministry. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as we did in the Committee on Justice on Tuesday and as we did in 2011, we will vote in favour for the reasons I have just put to you, and also for the will of agreement and consensus that has existed in the presentation. I would also like to thank Mr Aranda, Mrs Fernández, and of course the justice team of my group, led by Mr Rojas, and of course the spokesman for justice, Luis Santamaría. We will vote in favour and, in addition, we will vote by consensus on a law that is fundamental to the vertebration of our territory. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u11	Thank you. Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning we bring to approval the proposal for an organic law complementary to the law amending Law 20/2011 on the Civil Registry and also amending some articles of the Organic Law on the Judiciary and the Criminal Code. This proposal contains two articles: the first is included with the aim of supplementing the transposition of a European directive on the fight against money laundering, already regulated in articles 301 to 304 of the Criminal Code, and another article as a consequence, as we have all said, of the amendment of Law 20/2011 of the Civil Registry for the implementation of the new model of Single Civil Registry for the whole of Spain, computerised and accessible electronically. This new model requires an adjustment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and is what we bring to this plenary today, whose opinion, that of Law 20/2011, was already adopted on Tuesday in the Justice Commission with the majority agreement of all political forces, except, of course, of the Parliamentary VOX Group. The Civil Registry has been and is a vertebrating element of Spanish society, it is present throughout our territory and there is no doubt the social utility of the more than 8,000 civil registers, 7667 in peace courts. The 2011 law helped to make this new model of Civil Registry unique for the whole of Spain, computerised, electronically accessible and carried out by public officials who carry out a tenacious task of informing citizens and in this rule is scrupulously respected and completes their professional rights and expectations during the period of implementation of this new registry. Spain has one of the most reliable identity systems in the world, as its goal has been to move towards a single and modern Civil Registry that offers much more security. As you know, this law contained a period of statutory holiday which ended on 30 April and which has involved civil registry workers and neighbours and neighbours of many of our municipalities, who were informed by various means that the offices of the justices of the peace were closed. It is an exercise of responsibility and legal certainty to put an end to this period of legal vacuum and finally to bring the rule into force. Fortunately, the Civil Registry will continue to be a free and people-oriented public service because people and their vital paths are the central axis of this service, from birth to death. This commitment has also led to the maintenance of the offices of the Civil Registry in all our peoples, passing the courts of peace to be collaborating offices and this is a point that I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, because if there is a party that knows our peoples and cities that is the Socialist Party. Let us recall the preliminary draft law submitted by the People's Party and Mr Gallardón in 2013 which sought to privatize civil records and leave them in the hands of notaries and registrars. For years our mayors have been very concerned, yesterday I was sent a whatsapp by a fellow mayor of Casarabonela asking me, seeing the news of the Civil Registration Act, if they were finally going to close the peace courts in our peoples. No, ladies and gentlemen, the courts of peace in our peoples are not being closed because it is a very necessary service for all our neighbours, especially for the elderly who go by their departure from birth, their faith in life or marriage certificates. Here we must highlight the commitment of the Government and the Socialist Party - a deeply municipalist party - to rural Spain, with the locals, to the people we live in, so that we are not second-class citizens, in coherence with the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. [[Applauds]] This long period of time in which the entry into force of this rule has been extended has served to ensure the proper development of the electronic platform on which all facts relating to the marital status of persons who must have access to the register will be recorded. Advertising of registered information will also be organised in electronic format and telematic access will be made possible by means of electronic certification. A Civil Register is maintained at the service of the citizen, which removes administrative burdens and enshrines the principle of gratuitousness; ultimately, proposals for improving digitization and equal opportunities. And this is the result, as has already been said here, of dialogue and consensus among all political forces, of the negotiating will of the Ministry of Justice. It has been an intense and important work that on Tuesday in the Commission the spokespersons of all the groups acknowledged and congratulated themselves on it, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is useful parliamentaryism. The epic of legislating and reaching out to citizens, of making laws that last over time and make life easier for citizens, that's why we're here. In this regard, a new development has also been raised in the Civil Registration Act, which is worthy of mention here, as a result of an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, and is that the children of women victims of gender-based violence, victims of that macho terrorism that some parties deny in this House, the children of those 1081 murdered women have the possibility of changing their surname and even of identity quickly. [[Applauds]] Here is also the commitment of our Government to equality and against macho violence, the commitment of the Government and the Socialist Party to feminism. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate once again that this is what citizens expect of us: agreements, consensus, dialogue and useful policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u14	We continue with the debate on the amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposed Organic Law on the Regulation of Euthanasia. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that once again the interest of the Government in this case for a proposal of law of the importance of this one does not matter to the Minister of Health although this law supposes that what was so far directed and put at the service of life, as was the whole service through the different services of the communities and of the National Health Service, the parameters are changed to put it at the service of death. In this sense, it must be said that with a law of these characteristics, attention is drawn to the fact that experts on the subject have not been allowed to express themselves in this House, and those affected, those who are going to have to comply with this law, such as all health personnel, from the highest to the lowest, or the committees that exist like that of Bioethics, which have not been given a voice on this subject either; taking into account, moreover, that it is curious, because this Government in what it does not have expert committees is invented, such as it has been with the coronavirus, and where it has expert committees does not allow them to speak because it is not interested and does not interest the opinion. Last year in Spain - this news is from these days - there were more than 50,000 people who died waiting for help from addiction. In Spain at the moment most hospitals do not have adequate means for palliative care, they do not exist. There is currently no medical specialty in palliative care in Spain. With these limbs you can't make the other basket in any case, because then we are making first and second citizens. Let us take the example of a person without financial means who is in his house, treated by his family who does not have the money, who cannot take care of him, who ask for help and do not give it to them, who goes to a medical center and tells them that they cannot go because they cannot provide palliative care. The pressure to which that person is subjected has nothing to do with that of another person who can afford palliative care, who can afford personalized care and who is cared for 24 hours a day. These two situations have nothing to do with it and it is not that this is going to happen, but that it is already happening in Spain today. That is not to be corrected because it costs money; it costs a lot of money and, of course, it is much easier to put pressure on the person when the time comes. Imagine the scenario: a person who is in a bad situation, who is totally dependent and who sees that his family suffers in order to be able to care for her. With the responsibility of people in Spain today, especially those in this sector of the population who have suffered a great deal over the years and who have sacrificed a great deal in their lives, what decision will they make? They're going to decide to say, "Get out of the way, I'm just bothering you. That's right, that's going to happen and that's what we're talking about, because it totally changes the criteria. It's not the same if you go into a hospital and they ask you if you want them to cure you or want them to end your life, it's not the same as if all doctors are at the service of health and of saving that life, because they are to accompany you, to help you and not to suffer. That exists and there is palliative sedation. There are many methods and much is being studied, but for that we have to put in means and money, and it is much easier the other; it is always much easier the other. It is always easier to leave the person abandoned. Here when you talk about this subject, how do you do it? Well, we're looking for the extreme case. It puts a very extreme case to which the necessary help has not been given - we must also say - and, in this extreme case, many people say: Well, if it is their will, what will we do! Let his will be done. But, as we said the other day, if we go to the problem of will and everyone has the right to decide about their life - because there are people who say yes; right now I see that there are people who say yes - because I don't know why they set limits. If you really believe that, from the eighteen years that each one does with his or her life what he or she wants. Obviously, that's a criterion; it's not mine, but it's a criterion. Then don't put limits on anything. Put it this way: From the age of eighteen, let each one do with his life what he pleases. That's right, don't call the doctor to do it, let him do it. I believe that this law has not met any of the requirements of a law of this importance. In nearby countries, such as Portugal, the Constitutional Court has declared the law unconstitutional. In countries where it is already in progress, what is happening? Well, something very simple. At first it's the extreme cases, which are the examples they put here, but the extreme cases go away and the escalphon goes down. This is the same as when one is killed by parents and is often said to be in the front row. Well, this is the same thing. When we're done with the extreme case, it's no longer the extreme case, but it's the previous one, the previous one and the previous one. So, they are no longer people in a very extreme state, but young people or children in a difficult situation that is hard to take care of because they have to be cared for 24 hours a day and that costs the family a lot. The solution is to get him out of the way. Killing him, killing him, getting him out of the way, yeah, that's the solution. And if they're not given the means, that's what's happening and that's what's going to happen. Therefore, more palliative care, speciality in palliative care, more aid to dependence - there was a vice president who was dedicated to that, which now seems to be gone - much more care to dependence. It is a shame that last year 50,000 people were left without receiving the money from the dependency in Spain. That's a shame, because that brings us to situations like the one you're raising. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u16	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u17	Egun on. Good morning. The adoption of this law has been an important step. There are already twenty years of attempts in this Parliament, after many demands and initiatives have been made from different institutions and even approvals of laws - common in the case of the foral Parliament of Navarre or the Basque Parliament - of dignified end of life, which always clashed against the limitation of the laws of the Spanish State. So, after twenty years of bad behavior, what I want to do is express recognition of all the people, all the families that have been made to suffer uselessly. For this late approval I would like to remind, precisely, these people who wanted and want to stop suffering, those families, those medical professionals who have been helping and helping them, those services. Almost always, I mentioned earlier, that suffering has been carrying it in private, but in some cases it has been made public. It is thanks to these testimonies, to these families, to these people, that awareness and awareness in this society has been made possible, which has led us today to the adoption by the majority of this law by this Parliament. These testimonies leave it precisely the evidence, the need, to legally regulate the right of people to choose the end of their lives. Because that's basically what it's about, that people can choose what the end of their lives has to be and that it's not determined by circumstances but by people's own will. That's what this is about. Living well, and living well also the end of our lives; and to live well it is very important to feel that you own those moments. That's what this is all about, and that's what dignity is about. Now we have a challenge, now it is the development of this law; here nothing ends, here it begins. This is precisely the moment when I want to tell those families that they have been enduring the suffering that we commit ourselves as political parties, as institutions - all the institutions of the State - to develop this law so that the law really becomes a power to carry it forward. It is important that we be capable, that society in general be able to put the person and his emotional and social well-being at the centre of political decisions. And following this imperative we must work to ensure that all people have a dignified life and, consequently, we can have the means to guarantee a dignified end to life. Because it has been many years of inequality, many years of inequality when it comes to deciding how to end these last moments of life. That is why the Navarra Foreign Parliament insisted that this right should be given. The Palliative Care Act, which was passed by a majority, stated and emphasized the right to euthanasia as well. Because they are not opposite elements, but complementary and we know it very well in Navarre and also in the Basque Country, where an important effort is being made in the development of palliative care. What do most specialists tell us? That we got to where we got to. In addition, it will only be a minority who will ask us to help them die, but those people will have the right to help them die at the time they want and how they want. And that's what this law is about, giving that right and recognizing dignity. We take the witness of the families who brought us this law here and commit ourselves to developing it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u18	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, family members of people whom this law has surely reached very late - I know they are listening to us -, a hug to all of them because the persistence of these people has made us, too, more effective in our work. Maybe we're a little late. I am not going to extend because all that had to be said on this subject has already been said more than once. I myself no longer know how many times I have come to this rostrum to defend our position. Today we conclude a long and complex process, a path we have made between different, some have stayed on the road in their struggle and without seeing the result they wanted. This is the realization of a right, I repeat, the realization of a right and not an obligation. Because, unfortunately, many have come up to this rostrum arguing that those who have defended the existence of a law of worthy death almost forced people to have an unworthy death, precisely changing the terms of the purpose of those who have defended this necessity. I repeat, it is a right and not an obligation. It is a legal and safe answer to a distressing and terrible situation for many people, because it is very easy to go up to this rostrum and speak as if these people were unable to decide for themselves, as if they were totally manipulated people, as if they were people who do not know what their future is, as if they were lost people to whom only palliative care would solve their situation. We're probably thinking of very different people. We cannot legislate alone - we have said this more than once - on the basis of each one's ethical and moral codes, and that is what you propose; solidarity, generosity, all that is to empathize also legislatively with the sufferer, because it can be empathized not only by being next door - that must be done, of course - but we have an obligation to empathize legislatively, because we are the only ones capable of doing so because they have chosen us to do so. Therefore, each one's ethical and moral codes must, of course, serve to guide us, but when it comes to legislating we must also think that there may be others with other ethical and moral codes. And that's what we've been trying to do. There is no need to add moral and legal suffering to those who suffer from other misfortunes that no one would wish to have. I really hope and wish that no one has the need to resort to this right, this service, this option provided by law, but, at the moment, for whatever reason, that door is guaranteed. Let's not confuse things. Palliatives are used as if they were the other side of the same coin. Is there anyone here who doesn't defend palliatives? Is there anyone here who does not believe that palliative care is, today, a fundamental need in medicine and in the treatment of sick people? For this reason, some of us have long developed them by passing their own laws and exercising them. But do you really believe that, in certain situations, palliatives come? There are palliatives that do not overcome suffering. Precisely this law is for those people, for whom there are no palliatives for their suffering. We cannot deceive society by making them believe that those who defend a law of dignified death are because we do not want palliatives or, as was said here at some point, to save health. That's a very cruel deception. There's nothing better than living when you can live, but there's nothing worse than not being able to die for not being able to live. We will of course support this proposal, as we have done so far. A very strong embrace to the people who have suffered, suffered and had to live with this stigma. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u20	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u21	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. With this debate today we put an end to the parliamentary handling of the law of euthanasia, a law that will not receive the unanimous support of this House, despite having it, practically, from the whole of society. It is a law that represents an advance in rights, in a right that is very relevant to all those who suffer: the right to decide. This law is a historic milestone for Spain and strengthens our commitment to freedoms. Currently, there are three countries in the European Union that recognize this right in their legislation, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, and, outside the European Union, Canada. From today Spain will add its name to this list, and I am sure that after that many more will do so, because the progress in rights at the moment is unstoppable. When we pass this law, those elderly people who suffer from a serious and incurable illness, a chronic and irreversible serious suffering that marks their day to day, who have great physical and psychological suffering intolerable and without the possibility of healing will be able to decide, ladies and gentlemen. In this law we mark the importance of this right to decide, because to counter the right to euthanasia, to decide, with the right to palliative care is totally incorrect, ladies and gentlemen. My group is clearly in favour of palliative care and clearly in favour of the right to decide whether anyone wants to put an end to that suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this law is that the person can decide. While your ladies and gentlemen from VOX want to impose their morale on this House, on all the Spaniards, we want to give people freedom so that they can decide under what conditions they want to live and we do not impose our morale, but we respect people's decisions and do not come to judge them. You've got a lot of your suffering, ladies and gentlemen. I am only telling you that I hope that no one in your environment can be seen in such a situation and that such decisions need to be raised. This is precisely what this law does that will end up being passed in Congress thanks to the votes of Citizens: regulate the procedure through which any older person who is in serious and irreversible harmful circumstances mentioned above can request from the health services a benefit and a help to die. [[The lady]] We also regret that the People's Party opposes this law, but this is not the first time that, in advance of rights, the People's Party has shown its opposition. When you were still under the name of the People's Alliance, you opposed the Divorce Act in 1981 and the decriminalization of the voluntary termination of pregnancy in 1985. [[rumors]] Already as PP, they voted against equal marriage in 2005 and the Sexual and Reproductive Law in 2010. [[Applauds]] You have always been against progress in rights and, therefore, what you want to raise today is to go to the Constitutional Court with this legislation, because you do not want the right to freedom of decision, because you do not want the freedom to decide. [[Applauds]] All these rights are enjoyed today by the Spaniards, despite you, ladies and gentlemen. You yourselves enjoy many of those rights. You will give that red button, but Spain will recognize this right despite its opposition. As far as the procedure is concerned, I think it is important to make it clear that this is a guaranteed law. To those who have any doubts and, in addition, not to spread noises about what this legislation means, I invite you to read the article. [[Rumors]] Why?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u23	Because it is relevant that the persons who have these rights are persons who are of age, who have Spanish nationality or who have resided legally during the twelve months immediately preceding the application, who are in full use of their powers and who suffer from a serious and irreversible illness or a serious or chronic illness that causes them to apply for these health services. In addition, patients who were not in a position to make this request may be granted, provided that they have recorded their desire by means of a vital will. In that case, your efforts will be made through your representative. A responsible physician is appointed, the patient is given the opportunity to receive palliative care and the file is reviewed again. On the basis of the whole procedure of the rule, with medical and legal officials in charge of it, there is a real right of decision and respect for the will of that person who is going through a very serious, irreversible situation and a great deal of suffering in his life. That is what must be made clear to all Spaniards; it is a guaranteed law. I wanted to make it very clear because sometimes there is some confusion with speeches that go out that are uncertain, and I think it is worth it that all Spaniards know that it is guaranteed with the will of the patient. In Citizens we welcome the fact that this law of euthanasia obtains greater definitive support in Congress. We are pleased to have participated in the process of processing, to have reached agreements, to make this useful policy which we are proud of, provided that, moreover, it is based on progress in rights and freedoms. I would also have liked - and I regret that it was not so - that those claims that Cermi has made were more present within this legislation, and I think that is where we will have to think about some improvement. But I want to end by saying that today the Spaniards have a new right and that I am proud, that we are proud in my group that we have participated in the advancement in the rights of all people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I begin by expressing the satisfaction of the BNG for this decisive step in expanding rights and recognizing as one of them the choice of how to end, which is a substantial part of recognizing and guaranteeing the right to a dignified life. In three months we will have in force the law of euthanasia, which, as we have said on previous occasions, has been waited too long, unnecessarily prolonging the suffering of many people. Today the struggle of many of them, like that of our compatriot Ramon Sampedro, has just reward in a norm that, if not perfect, allows a significant advance, a fundamental advance. It is also a triumph in front of those, the ultra-right and the ultra-right, who sacramentalize life, but who not only care to guarantee a dignified life, but make it impossible with their policies at the service of the ruling classes at the cost of the quality of life and well-being of the social majorities, of the popular classes of our peoples. They do not care, as we saw yesterday, about access to decent housing or for just wages and pensions or for public and essential services, much less about social, democratic rights and public freedoms, but about things as pilgrim and absurd as being able to register children from the moment of conception. Honestly - I suppose as happened to many other people -, when I read this I had to check if we were already on April 1st, Day of Lie, or on their Spanish Day of the Innocent Saints, but no, it is the last occurrence of the far right. They will already explain to us how and above all for what, even if the one for which we already suspect it is: what it is again about is to coerce and prevent a fundamental right of the woman, such as to decide on her own body and motherhood. Because one of the obsessions of this ultra-right and this ultra-right is that of limiting rights rather than expanding them. In front of them, facing all those who want to put, according to them, God's will before the will of people, this law means putting an end to the blackmail and taboo that life is divine property and, therefore, must be administered according to criteria of the religious hierarchy. The right to a dignified death, such as the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy or equal marriage, does not force anyone and deny those rights does force and cause pain and suffering. That's why this law is so important. We say this, the BNG, that we have tabled various amendments with the aim of improving it, which in some cases were met, but in others, not. For example, amendments to ensure that precise cautions ensuring that this is a free and conscious decision do not preclude the right to recognition of this situation or do not imply bureaucratic hindrances that unnecessarily lengthen that time. Also so that no body has the last word on whether or not the person meets the conditions for being able to exercise that right, which we believe is personal and non-transferable. We also propose amendments to ensure that once the law comes into force and euthanasia is regulated, it can be ensured that it is exercised in public life and that no professional can refuse to do so on grounds of conscientious objection, and also to guarantee this right on a universal basis, without excluding anyone: regular immigrants, pensioners, residents in other countries, cross-border workers, etc. As I said, some were attended to and others were not, and among the latter is, for example, the one referring to conscientious objection, which seemed important to us because that a professional cannot refuse is what ensures that the person concerned can be properly attended to. As we said, the law is not perfect, but we understand that we are facing a decisive step, which we celebrate as a triumph of the rights of all and of all in the face of intolerance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs. I own my life and I also own my death and no one has the right to tell me how to live, but neither do I have to die. Until now the laws of this State condemned people who suffered inhuman, unbearable and irreversible suffering to live, but luckily today this is over. They not only prevented euthanasia, but also criminalized it, punishing those who, in an act of compassion, helped a person to die, even if he or she had freely requested it because he or she was subjected to unbearable and irreversible suffering. We cannot allow a minute more than people who carry out acts of love, respect and human dignity to face a prison sentence of between two and six years. Republican Left has always defended him before this House, even when no one did. We were pioneers in claiming this right with Joan Puigcercós, in 2001; with Rosa María Bonàs, in 2004; with Joan Ridao and Joan Tardà, in 2010; with Esther Capella, in 2018, and all of them came across the PP and PSOE wall. [[Applauds]] Today, at last, we have finally managed to ensure the right for people who are suffering unjustly from a serious and incurable illness to decide when to end this suffering, and if anyone intends to demagogue, this law does not force anyone, anyone, all it does is that they can choose. That is called democracy, which often shines through its absence between these walls; that each can decide by virtue of the free independence and self-determination of the person. It is enough that authoritarian right-wing parties, such as PP and VOX, manipulate public opinion with lies. That's enough. The bill we pass today is a step forward in rights and freedoms and does not create any right, but recognizes it, because the right to a dignified death is a reflection of a person's right to dignity. As I have already said, this law is a step forward, but we would like to remind you of the importance of the participation of nurses in the whole process - which I am aware has been specified in the Senate procedure - and also of the bureaucracy and the lengthy procedures for exercising this right. We would also have liked to give voice and vote to those under the age of sixteen. Today we take a very important step to end the criminalization that so far condemned those who chose to live and die with dignity, because dying to this day is inevitable, but dying badly must cease to be, and all this is not incompatible with the palliative care that our health system already provides. Finally, I do not want to end without claiming again the great work of the Association for the Dret to Morir Dignament of Catalonia and of all the people who in silence and anonymity, through their civil disobedience, have been fighting for many years to achieve the decriminalization of euthanasia, something that should have been done a long time ago and that only the closure and the parliamentary blockade have prevented, but that at last today will be a reality. And I want to end with a quote from a wonderful book written by a writer persecuted by the Inquisition, El Quixote, who has enlightened and defended my intervention, and says thus: 'Freedom, Sancho, is one of the most precious gifts that men gave to the heavens; with it cannot equal the treasures that enclose the earth or the sea covers; for freedom, as well as for honor, life can and must venture,...'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u29	Good morning. He said three months ago that the right to a dignified death has always existed for some people, and now this right will exist for all those who wish to exercise it. [[Applauds]] The law has been passed in the Senate and now we have it here again. It is a law very persecuted by the far right, because the totalitarian thought of the far right does not tolerate democracy, the viewpoint of others; because democracy is not only to vote, it is to respect those who do not think like you, even if you do not share their point of view. But as they are rabidly intolerant, they fill their speech with insults, disqualifications, hatred, which is the resource when you have no argument, or simply threaten from the seat; threats we have heard here, as for example: when I rule, illegalize you. That's his democracy. Their intolerance comes to such an extent that they want to impose on others how they should die; they want to place their opinions above everyone's rights. The law says: anyone who wants to die because he does not want to continue living under certain circumstances of unbearable and irreversible physical or psychological suffering can ask doctors for help and die without pain. Welcome be this right, welcome be it. The law of euthanasia is fully guaranteeing and is only intended to guarantee individual rights and the exercise of personal autonomy until the last moment of people's life, whatever their situation or condition. That's why the right is opposed, because it makes us all a little more free and they can't stand it. I want to stress that this is a historic day, and we must be happy because we have the recognition of a right in this country. I congratulate, at last, all the associations that have defended and defend the right to dignified death and that have been fundamental to the success of this project. I would like to recall, of course, Ramón Sampedro and María José Carrasco and her husband, Ángel Hernández, and Dr. Carlos Montes, of course. [[Applauds]] It doesn't matter to repeat this, no; it doesn't matter to repeat it. And I would like to thank again for the realization of this right to all the good people of this country, because there is a consensus in favour of euthanasia. I want to repeat the data again. To Metroscopia's 2019 question: Do you believe that an incurable patient has the right to ask doctors to provide him with any product to end his life without pain? 87% of the citizens who responded to the survey said yes. Well, I want to congratulate all these good people, whether they intend to use the Euthanasia Act or not. Look, I think that all human beings aspire to own our lives, because it's something inherent to the human being, we need that control, we need to feel that we control life. This cannot fail to be so at the time of facing death, because I believe that euthanasia is actually the right to live as long as one wants, of course, as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day that will pass into the history of ignominy in Spain. Today it is consummated its plan to implement the culture of discard and death. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is the fourth country in Europe to legislate euthanasia and the thirty-first in palliative care. You have chosen death rather than care. Talking about freedom and compassion or the right to decide is a mockery, ladies and gentlemen, it is a mockery to the Spaniards, just as bringing the Quixote here to defend this, when they have refused to implement palliative care to relieve pain and suffering in terminally ill and that consent, without alleviating pain, has no justification whatsoever. The change that is taking place in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, with this law, is a very profound change. Their attack is directed at the very heart of our society and at the heart of our health system. It is no longer the value of life that will inform our legal system, but above all the weakest and most vulnerable people will be left unprotected. Jérôme Lejeune said that the quality of a society is measured by the respect it professes to the weakest of its members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very profound change. The State no longer has in its hands the health of its citizens, but its own life, exceeding, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main limits of the State in a democratic system, which life cannot be at the disposal of the public authorities. We say goodbye, ladies and gentlemen, to more than twenty centuries of culture for life; goodbye to human rights; goodbye to modern constitutionalism. It's the failure of a civilization. Under the chosen procedure, they have avoided the preceptive opinions of the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Fiscal Council, which there is no doubt that they would have questioned the essence, the substance and the measures they propose. In addition, you have also ignored the procedure of hearing the interested parties and the different experts, because you are not interested in guaranteeing the rights of the potential affected persons or the public interest. This law has been conceived and cooked by its socio-communist government and, as such, approves its perverse ideology in an anti-democratic and dictatorial manner. And although they have wanted to ignore them, we will remind them of some of them, so that their existence will be reflected in the Journal of Sessions of this session; thus, history will remember their infamy. They do not want to hear, despise and ignore the public declaration of a large number of jurists and academics of legislation and jurisprudence, which states that it is contrary to the Constitution in various articles protecting the dignity of every human person and his or her inalienable rights to the preservation of his or her own life, to equality and non-discrimination, to the protection of health, even if it may be reduced and, in particular, when it comes to persons with disabilities or to citizens of the elderly. You have also ignored the World Medical Association, which says that euthanasia is contrary to ethics. You have despised what the General Council of Physicians says, which has strongly stated that the Code of Medical Deontology states that the doctor will never intentionally cause the death of any patient, even in the event of an express request from him, being also contrary to the Code of Medical Deontology to endorse by law that euthanasia is a medical act. You have ignored and did not want to hear either the College of Doctors of Madrid, the College of Dentistry and the College of Pharmacists, who express themselves to the same extent saying that the demand for euthanasia is null or void when the patient is attended by a team of expert professionals, but instead of enhancing underdeveloped palliative care, the only alternative that this law proposes to patients with advanced diseases is to kill them. The Spanish Palliative Care Society also reiterates this, and says that it puts at risk all patients admitted, that in the case of imminent death, precisely to relieve refractory symptoms, if they exist, palliative sedation would be indicated without any need to apply euthanasia. They have also ignored and despised the National Bioethics Committee, which states that this means starting a path of devalued protection of human life whose consequences are far too hard to predict, as the experience of our environment shows us. You have also despised the Spanish Psychiatry Society, which declares the incongruity it implies, in societies in which suicide prevention is considered a global responsibility, to pose the help to die in people who suffer disorders that have between their own symptoms, forming part of the pathology, the desire to die. You have also ignored, despised and refused to listen to Cermi, who says that the rule contains aspects for the disabled group that are contrary to the mandates of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. All this, ladies and gentlemen, and more is what they despise, what they have wanted to ignore, what they have not wanted to hear. We can conclude that this law violates the Constitution and ethics, is eugenic, is illegitimate and is an attack on a millennial profession such as the doctor. By the way, it is repulsive and disgusting at a time like this, when we have incurred a debt to the dead and especially if they have been doctors or nurses who have given their lives to save other lives. From here, our tribute. [[Applauds]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the fifty-two Members of VOX will not rest until they are able to die with dignity at the end of their lives, without pain and without being killed; they can be sure. We will file an appeal with the Constitutional Court and we will also ask for the suspension of its application until the appropriate judgement is handed down, which we demand that it be handed down, for irreparable damage. [[Applauds]] In VOX we will stand up to them, and sooner we will win them, and rebuild everything they have destroyed, and give hope to those who have lost it. We will protect the lives of all Spaniards and return admiration to our doctors, nurses and nurses. We will reverse these laws - you can be sure - and in our society it will be life that triumphs and not death. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from here we make this promise to all Spaniards. You can be sure that we will win and you can be sure that we will. Only VOX is Spain's hope. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this text comes back from the Senate, which could become law today and which is made worse by the way it went, with shorter deadlines and with the possibility of doctors applying euthanasia without having the family; a law that is a paradigm of how it should never be legislated, avoiding reports of any kind, without listening to society or its institutions and taking into account that none of the social, medical, professional, bioethics or disability organisations have been able to pay their opinion, and against what the great nations of our European environment are doing, and 99% of the countries of the world, in a way expressed in a pandemic, with 65 000 pensioners who have died more than in 2019, when the latest scientific study shows that there is no objective social demand and when all the elements show, up to the Cermi, that this law discriminates, stigmatizes, destroys decades' work in favour of the dignity of the disabled and when the UN rapporteur has drawn up the red card for acting against the convention. Do you remain calm, ladies and gentlemen, when 160 professors, professors of constitutional law, academics of jurisprudence and legislation say it is unconstitutional? Are you calm when Spanish doctors say it will be applied without guarantees? Do you stay calm when the Committee on Bioethics of Spain is against it? Or when the Spanish Psychiatric Society says it is essential that there be a prior psychiatric assessment? Are they calm when never so many institutions, organizations or associations of all kinds of civil society have said to stop this unnecessary madness? When two days ago the Constitutional Court of Portugal laid down a law less harmful than the one we are debating today? When the bioethics committees say this law opens the door to unsolicited euthanasia? When do they claim that Spain can become a country of euthanasia tourism with this law? Ladies and gentlemen, suffering at the end of life is not something new. Since the beginning of medicine professionals have applied lex artis, good practice, looking for the best for patients on the basis of natural law, and there has never been, as now, more remedies against suffering. The father of medicine, Hippocrates, opposed euthanasia and, under the principle of primum non nocere, the first thing not to do harm, formulated the hypocritical oath that today is elorigin of the code of ethics that we doctors perform. 'And I will not give any lethal drugs to anyone, even if they ask me, nor will I suggest such use.' This oath, ladies and gentlemen, has allowed medicine for centuries to protect the most vulnerable. Today you, for the first time, want to force the opposite: an attack on respect for human dignity, human life and health care; an anti-medical and anti-professional act. And they do so with coercion, with the intimidation of such a black law of objectors that it is an insult to the professionals, to whom society has unanimously applauded throughout this pandemic; an intolerable blackmail that will surely turn against them. Ladies and gentlemen, euthanasia is not demanded from autonomy, from free decision, but from dependence, from fragility, from vulnerability, from disease, from depression, from lack of lucidity, of understanding or judgment, from lack of will, from the lack of full powers among the most influential. The presence of mental disorders is in itself a cause of unbearable subjective suffering that sometimes causes you to seek help to die. But when these people are treated, ladies and gentlemen, the desire to die disappears, because in many of these cases it is simply a symptom, on the other hand, of the mental disorders and of many of those who also accompany physical diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not designed for exceptional cases, but to offer euthanasia in the context of progressive fragility and chronic suffering and, therefore, it has a powerful effect on the most vulnerable people in our society, who should be protected by us. Pushing them into euthanasia is a shameful act of social abandonment, covering up a denial of the best social health care. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to defend, now more than ever, our alternative, our medical alternative, our social alternative, our humanitarian alternative, our palliative care law, our law to universalize the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person in the final moments of life, because when nothing can be done, however, much still needs to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal is a just, positive, useful and timely alternative that defends the majority of our society. And it is a great fear, an irresponsibility to approve euthanasia without first helping with our indispensable, albeit rachytic, palliative care, because without palliative care the patient cannot choose. And, paradoxically, with his law there will be no palliative care at home, look, but there will be euthanasia at home. Ladies and gentlemen, if you pass this law, there will be serious family, social, medical, ethical consequences; you will promote mistrust between parents and children, between brothers, between doctors and patients and between doctors, and there will be a domino effect, because there will always be a next step: from terminals to chronics, from there to dependents, to disabled people, to mentally ill people, to people tired of living, even children, as in the Netherlands; without safeguard and without control, as in the Netherlands; with shortcuts and abuses, as in the Netherlands; even in a non-voluntary way, as in the Netherlands. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, a quarter of the elderly in the Netherlands, if they can, are fleeing to live outside their country. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say that this is a natural death, but it will never cease to be a provoked death. From today on, the most fragile in society have reasons for fear, disquiet, anxiety and mistrust. Today you decide to renounce the defence of the most vulnerable, and we in the People's Party will continue to strive, ladies and gentlemen, to build a society in which the weak are protected, in which they are fought for all their lives, also for those you see with less courage or indignity, and in which the sick are offered relief, listening, affection and the best medicine. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u34	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Carcedo Roces.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. 'In this country contracting a terminal degenerative disease seems to be a crime. The condemnation they impose on you is a cruel and painful end, devoid of all integrity and dignity. Your pain and suffering is a currency of change among those who should legislate to mitigate it.' These are the words of Maribel Tellaetxe's son; a promise not fulfilled, because she preferred to suffer for years, to avoid the criminal consequences to her family. 'I lent him my hands.' Angel Hernandez to MariaJosé after her hands took care of her, caressed her, fed her for love, dedicating her thirty years of her life, that she could not live again, to end up accused of gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of this law, the penalty of death assistance is removed from the Criminal Code in accordance with the conditions of this law. [[Applauds]] 'Let politicians ever think about the citizens who suffer', Fernando Cuesta. Ladies and gentlemen, today a majority of the General Courts have taken the witness of these and other sick people and their families, who have been calling for the regulation of this new right for years. 'Whoever wants to live, let him live, but let us die with dignity. I don't know what muscle I won't move tomorrow. I don't want that ending.' They are also the words of Fernando Cuesta. Ladies and gentlemen, this law provides for the person to decide freely when he or she makes use of this new right. Freedom with capitals, ladies and gentlemen, because this law gives a new dimension to the law of patient autonomy. A freedom to decide, not a freedom to fail to comply with laws or to do what one wants in a pandemic or to maintain privileges, which is the slogan of the right. [[Applauds]] Also for those who today, despite their situation, love life but fear that the progression of their situation will not make it easy. Although they want to continue living, they aspire to have a law for when it is unbearable for them. 'It gives me peace, I want a bullet in the chamber', Rafa, thirty-five years old, fifteen with tetraplejia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to all these people and many other anonymous people, such as their relatives, who go through experiences similar to this one, despite curative or palliative care, to wait for their end of suffering and with a limited life expectancy. Palliative care? Gentlemen of the right, gentlemen of the PP, for three times prevented the palliative care law from being passed in this House! [[Applauds]] But beyond that, neither with the law nor with proclamations in this rostrum are palliative services provided. We must give resources, and you have cut 12 billion in the National Health System and 4600 in dependence, so that they come here now to say that people die without having help with dependency. [[applause]] I do not want to slip through this debate, which we have already maintained, and I am going to dedicate myself to the people who are suffering or who have suffered. 'Please don't let it be me, don't let it lose my dignity, live without knowing who you are,' Maribel Tellaetxe. Ramon Sampedro: 'Death desired to rid oneself of pain is a good'. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to life is inextricably linked to human dignity, to physical and moral integrity, to privacy and to the right to self-image and, above all, to individual freedom of belief, ideology and values. In this speech he took the floor of these people who decided to tell their privacy in order to achieve this new right, to share it with all citizens. They and many other anonymous ones, their relatives - some who no longer fight for their own because they left, with sadness and pain - fight for other people, for others, and are the true creators of collective consciousness about the need for this new right. In a special way I would like to remind Dr. Luis Montes, as a symbol of many professionals who persevere despite the cruel persecutions and the very serious attempts of professional and personal contempt. [[Applauds]] And also associations for the right to die decently, for the protection of many people from despair. All of them, thank you. I finish this speech, ladies and gentlemen, with the farewell that Luis de Marcos made to his wife, Asun: 'I just want to say that I believe that we all come to the world with a mission, to play some role, and I have suffered a disease that has led me to fight for one of the most basic rights. Now I am fully aware that the minimum requirement for a developed, civilized and modern society is the right to dispose of the end of your own life. Many thanks to all who have somehow supported this cause, which is not only mine, but of any human being. I wish you could have that exit if you ever needed it. Thank you very much to all who have brought this law here.' [[Applauds]] With the approval of this law they will have it. Of course, we will support all the amendments that come from the Senate. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal Group of the United Left-In-Communication Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Minister of Health, Darias San Sebastián, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carcedo. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I would like to take the floor to express our gratitude to all the parliamentary groups for the work they have done, especially those who, by their vote, will allow this bill to be passed. They will allow me to expressly thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the proposing group, and in particular the people who have preceded me in the ministry, María Luisa Carcedo and Salvador Illa, for their intense work and conviction with which they have defended this proposal of law. Ladies and gentlemen, as Salvador Illa said in his speech in December, I think today is an important day. And it's an important day because we're making progress in the recognition of rights. It is an important day for all citizens because we are moving towards a more humane and fairer society, but, above all, it is an important day for those who are in a situation of serious suffering, and it is also a day for their families and the people close to them. The truth is that, beyond the legitimate differences of opinion, the legalization and regulation of euthanasia are based on the compatibility of essential principles, which are the basis of people's rights and are also reflected in our Spanish Constitution: on the one hand, they are the fundamental rights to life and physical and moral integrity, and on the other, constitutionally protected goods, such as dignity, freedom and autonomy of will. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a step further in that path of progress begun with the presidency of Pedro Sánchez, a path of progress that will make Spanish society not only a more just society, as Orwell said, but a more decent society, a society that is concerned with avoiding the suffering of all its members, ultimately a society committed to the permanent search for a dignified life for those who live and die in it. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal for a law seeks to provide a legal, systematic, balanced and guaranteed response and, in addition, responds to a major demand from Spanish society. Recognition to those who have given voice and those who have made it possible for us to be here today, to all the parliamentary groups, but also to all the entities of civil society that have been fighting for a regulation in Spain for the right to die with dignity. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are not only beginning to legalize euthanasia and to gain a right, but we are also taking the road to making euthanasia more part of the service portfolio of the National Health System, thereby improving our care capacity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the block vote on the Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 238 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 63 plus 135 telematics votes, 198; against, 41 plus 101 telematics votes, 142; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u40	The amendments were adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u41	This plenary session includes the debate and the adoption of the Commission opinion and the amendments of the Senate on organic legislative initiative, items 26 and 28 of the agenda, which must be put to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not be held before 12.30 p.m. I would also like to inform you that from 11:00 until 12:00 today, non-legislative proposals and motions, the Committee's opinion and the corresponding overall vote, the general vote on Senate amendments to the proposed organic law on euthanasia, the amendments of the Senate to the draft law on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19 and the requests for extension of the commissions of inquiry will be able to be voted by telematical means. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u42	We continue with the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19, from Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 of 9 June. Mr Díaz Gómez spoke on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u43	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. The processing of this decree-law has been accidental, not because of anyone but because when it was thought of this royal decree-law we did not know in its entirety the pandemic that we faced, and it already destroyed many of the premises that we had. We've been learning about the march. Those of us who have been in the presentation of this royal decree have seen how, over the weeks, many of the things we put forward were rendered useless, because we were learning new things, because when we started working on this royal decree we didn't know about the coronavirus what we were learning afterwards. This slowness, which gives us guarantees, of course, as a legislative system, has to make us learn. What does this mean? That we can't face a pandemic again with real decree-laws, except to nuance a rule that already exists. That is why I would like to ask the Government and the majority groups to support it if they are to come up with legislation that will allow us to respond better to a situation like this in the future. I believe that one of the lessons we have to draw is the need for a stable body of legislation for a situation like this, so that we do not have to have emergency legislation permanently. To be very honest, this is nobody's fault, we didn't know we were going to face this situation. There are things that could have been done much better, but I don't think it's time to say this. Meanwhile, in the processing of this royal decree, what could we do to make it useful? I must also say that one day we took the surprise that the presentation was closed and many amendments were being tabled, so I was going to make this speech very angry. However, some circumstances have changed and we have some good news that also changes my perception of this situation. The Citizens' Group's attitude throughout the pandemic has been to reach out, build bridges and try to live up to the circumstances. We demonstrated this with our support for a first state of alarm - today we know what would have happened if it had fallen in March - and also for the last extensions closest to the summer. In addition, we faced an absolutely unprecedented situation in which we believed we had to be responsible. We also did it with budgets, which we negotiated to the end and in which we achieved some important achievement, such as the single health card. In this royal decree that comes here today, as I have been told, it seems that an amendment by Citizens will also be adopted. I think this is very good news because the suspension of the triple EPOC treatment visa for the duration of the pandemic will be approved. What is EPOC? Very briefly, they know it is a respiratory disease whose patients describe how to breathe through a straw in the most serious cases. Imagine that such an affected person is contracting COVID. They are one of the most sensitive patients to this disease. This amendment will avoid bureaucratic procedures to access the best of treatments. I would like to thank most of the groups that have accepted our amendment. Citizens tabled this amendment, but it is not a Citizens' amendment, but it is one of all the groups that have endorsed it. And I would like to thank all the groups, but especially the Socialist Group, which I know has made an important effort to endorse this amendment. With questions like this, we show that when we get started and talk, we are able to carry out things of great utility among all. So thank you very much. He also announced that we will vote in favour of all the amendments, both of which will be voted on separately and of the rest of the block of amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u45	Thank you, President. Today we have to talk about measures to deal with the health crisis, but they will allow me to first send a message of gratitude to the citizenry, who is complying with the health measures. Of course, there are some cases of non-compliance, but I think we should reschedule and thank the good behaviour of the social majority in our country. I would also like to send a message of prudence and caution, because we must continue to comply with the measures agreed by our health authorities. We are on the road to defeat the virus, but we cannot deviate from that path not a millimeter, because there is nothing worth more than saving life. Within the legal framework of the fight against the pandemic, today we are discussing Senate amendments to a bill of great importance for the daily life of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate's amendments are, as a whole, reasonable amendments that will allow the final text to be fixed, and which we support. However, I would like to add a counterpoint to this debate. It is true that the public authorities have a responsibility to respond urgently to the health crisis, and this has happened, but it is also true that we must be able to address the structural changes our country needs. For example, it is very well, and we support it, to extend the investigation contracts that expire in the coming weeks, as one of the Senate's amendments proposes. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to address the structural problem of precariousness and temporality in the field of scientific research, because even the research staff who are working to develop a vaccine in our country have temporary contracts and this is unacceptable. The pact for science can be an opportunity to put an end to the scourge of temporality and to guarantee the stability of our scientists, but indeed, without trap or cardboard. Another example. It is positive, as another Senate amendment proposes, that we incorporate in the law the express mention of prevention, but it is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to know what has happened to prevention and public health in Spain. If we want to face structural problems and we want to change the root of the problems, we need to analyse and evaluate what has happened. Although they are different concepts, public health and public health are often confused. As is known, public health is simply a way of providing health care, without doubt the only way to guarantee equality and social cohesion; public health is the medical specialty that deals with the functions of surveillance, prevention and epidemiological control. There is a consensus among the experts that prevention and public health functions are crucial to dealing with a pandemic, and yet the cuts of the last decade have been gnawed at public health. The level of investment in public health prior to the 2008 crisis had not yet been recovered in 2018. To give us an idea, the national aggregate in per capita terms was 21.4 euros in 2007 compared to 17.1 euros in 2018, and the aggregate in relation to GDP was 0.08% in 2007 compared to 0.07% in 2018. Article 43 of our Constitution guarantees the right to health, the problem being that this concept of health has been interpreted in a very narrow way. Thus, a medicine has been made almost exclusively curative, leaving aside the functions related to prevention or, for example, to health education. The fact of fostering a rather consumeristic health is a sign of right-wing identity. It's worth a button for the sample. There is nothing more to see than the objectives of the PP with the Andalusian School of Public Health. Thanks to the coalition government, the State General Budgets for 2021 provide for a significant increase in resources in the civil service and provide for the establishment of a State public health centre. We have a historic opportunity to undertake structural reforms to ensure social cohesion. We can deal with the health, economic and social consequences of the European funds, as a result of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity, we can change our productive model. But we can't do that anyway. That is why the European Union has made it very clear to us which are the six main objectives or axes of action: ecological transition, transition to digitalisation, employment and sustainable growth, social and territorial cohesion, children and youth, and of course health and social and economic resilience, all within the framework of the pillar of social rights and the gender perspective. European funds are an opportunity to strengthen and modernise our system, our health and public health services. [[The Lord]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Whenever we talk about the pandemic and the measures to deal with it, we should bear in mind that women are suffering much more than men and that the working class is suffering the cruelest consequences of this health and economic crisis. That is why we must continue to work to improve health measures, yes, but also to strengthen the social shield and ensure the economic transformations that will allow us to advance in democracy and social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u47	Thank you very much. With venial, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me a preview. If the Government had not been so negligent, today the Spaniards would not be infected, locked up or unemployed and would therefore not have so much physical or mental health problems - I do not see Mr Errejón -. By the way, it's never a bad recommendation to go to the doctor. A doctor and also a hypochondriac tell you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we present the chronicle of a continuous deception. First, that of the royal decree and the corresponding presentation in Congress, in which all the amendments of the opposition, and also those of Citizens, have been rejected. In Congress the communist and separatist socialists have withdrawn their twenty-two amendments and added one, it is known that so that it is not noticed that they have not worked anything. We note that something similar has happened in the Senate, although there are some improvements, not where Mr. Díaz of Citizens says, but in articles 24, 25 and 27.2. The story of this purpose begins on 10 June, when Royal Decree 21/2020 of 9 June was published in the BOE, and on 25 June, when the VOX Group used the turn against its validation. The then minister, Don Salvador Illa, happily and comfortably retired now in Barcelona, was addressing this House. We then warned the Government that it was a new act of political propaganda, an unacceptable defense of its negligence, and reproached it for the fact that the royal decree declaring the state of alarm was unconstitutional, it was a freezing of democracy, a house arrest that paralyzed our nation, ruined our economy and did not stop the virus. During his address, Mr. Illa used the expression 'new normality' seven times. As we announced, this new normality that he dictated was nothing more than a ninot, which was to be consumed in the flames of the epidemic, the consequence of a chaotic decontainment that had been made with the intention of transferring responsibility to the Spanish on foot - deceived and frightened - and to the autonomous communities - inflated disproportionately. The government was leaving its main responsibility and the taifas kingdoms thought they were smarter than the neighbor and of course the virus, which they thought was like a Grogui boxer. Yeah, yeah... We warned then, nine months ago, that more PCR should be made, that if we did not establish microbiological controls at borders we would get more dangerous mutated viruses, and the virus caught the autonomic state of confusion off guard, and the Spaniards were the ones who paid for it. That is why we voted against and the Hibris, the disproportionate, has its consequence in Nemesis. The result is the following, nothing less than since then, since June, 169 fellow citizens have died every day. Aesa The daily hecatombe wanted to call it you, lords of the left, 'new normality'; a normality, so with quotes, in which the government and the kingdoms of taifas follow only what they know how to do: confinement and imprisonment. They use the term perimeter closure to penetrate our minds with the harmful idea that Spain has internal borders, that they only make the delights of separatists and that it is not proven to serve anything. [[Applauds]] They have Spaniards locked up in their regions while tourists can come from all the European nations with the most incidence. And, of course, they spread illegal immigrants at night while they have all Spanish infected, frightened and unvaccinated. This new normality of the left is called infection, unemployment and, since today, euthanasia. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] The presentation, ladies and gentlemen, was an opportunity to amend the mistakes made and yet it was a clear example of what they are capable of doing in the left and separatism to obstruct parliamentary work. Sometimes they didn't want to work, others were knitting and knitting amendments, others were waiting for the ministry's call. The case is that they said that things had to be taken with parsimony, slowness and calm. Lie; in reality, laziness, ineptitude and obstructionism. In the meantime, our parliamentary group has proposed sixteen silent amendments, ranging from the exemption from the economic contribution of masks to the modification of protocols for detection by PCR, antigenic tes or group PCR in residences to avoid the death that occurred under the mandate of Mr Iglesias We insist that the PCRs have to be communicated in twenty-four hours to stop the contagion, we propose a system of surveillance of imported infections in locations of high presence of migrants from high incidence areas. It was appropriate to demand negative PCR less than forty-eight hours before entering Spain and carrying out antigenic tests for travellers from outside the Community and especially from unreliable countries such as Communist China. In addition, we suggest you try to conduct sequencing studies, which we see is an absolutely important tool to combat the epidemic. We predicted it then and now we see it made a reality. Any of these proposals would have reduced the incidence of the epidemic, and together they would have stopped it. The result of this work - let's put it in quotes - has been to give birth to a mouse. However, if they had listened to our proposals, the epidemic would at least have stopped. But the left does not recognize their mistakes, and their commitment is for the Spaniards to remain locked up and infected, so that fear and relief for having survived will make them forget the dead who died because of their negligence, that of you, ladies and gentlemen of the left.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u48	Mr. Steegmann, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u49	I'll be done in two seconds, Madam President. We told them in June that in VOX we will not forget the dead or their relatives. I repeat it to you again today; tomorrow, if there is justice in this world, you will tell a judge. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u50	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u51	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to tell you, first of all, that the Parliament of Spain had never been more united than in this legislature. [[Applauds]] Government decree-laws have become the norm, as has happened in this case. And I also go up to tell you that hair removal has not been able to be greater, that there is nothing more important in life than having a word, and of course, to fulfill it. It was said in this House that this royal decree-law processed as a bill, to incorporate - as Minister Illa said - the contributions of all groups. Well, of the 45 amendments of my group, they have not accepted one. The balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen, of what the government called - not me - the new normality, I called it the decree of the meter and a half. They called it the new normal. In nine months, take a look at what has happened, what is the concept of the Government of the new normality. So, there were 247 486 infected, today there are 3.2 million; today there are 130,000 infected professionals, then 52 000; and the dead - the taboo word they never pronounce -, the excess mortality, has more than doubled, from 47 617 to 100,000 dead. In addition, there are 6 million unemployed, 300,000 self-employed people who have been forced to lower the blind and more than 200,000 companies destroyed. We have not overcome the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, neither health nor social nor economic. [[Applauds]] They said we got stronger, but we got weaker. The health system today is weaker than before the pandemic, and we could have avoided it. [[Applauds]] We have made proposals and put forward health, legal, economic and employment plans. However, the Government has not carried out one of the initiatives we launched in the Recovery Commission. Without a single vaccination plan, they still do not implement the independent audit, they still do not reduce the VAT on masks to zero, they still do not have a plan, which must be B, I do not know if C, so that 70% of Spaniards, as we have been told, are immunized at the end of the summer. Fortunately, the minister said that the aim of the law was to provide us with preventive measures. What concept of prevention does the Government have? As you can see, a great efficiency. Is there nothing to improve on the health system? Has the Government not realized that this decree comes here just as it came out, that only five amendments have been incorporated? This Government has been unable to take advantage of the instrument offered by this draft legislation to incorporate what is urgently needed by the health system - as I said then and as I say now - to strengthen the National Health System, to strengthen my country's health system. They have said no to the professionals, they have said no to the scientists, they have said no to having a stronger public health system, they have said no to Spain facing another crisis like this being in the same conditions or worse than it is now. And why? Why have you not supported our amendments, Mr de Podemos and Mr De Partido Socialista? Why do they say no to the creation of a public health and quality care agency? He must be very right-handed. It must be that it is very right-wing a human resources plan to improve the remuneration conditions of professionals and to give them stability. It must be very right-wing to strengthen the National Microbiology Centre and to have a genuine system of epidemiological surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be very right to have a strategic reserve of health material, or the psychological care plan that we include in our amendments, or measures aimed at our country's social services, or the strategy of health coordination. In this regard, why not tell them about that very important effort that this Government has made - let me be ironic - that wonderful control at the airports that we have all experienced. Neither have they supported the strategic reserve of health products or Amendment 110, which many patients are sure to understand, so that patients in need of anticoagulation treatments have this treatment, in accordance with the Clinical Practice Guide. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. Today we note not only what has happened in this decree-law - by the way, we were called on 28 December to tell us that they did not admit a single amendment, we will never forget it - this reflects how the Government does in legislative matters. Did the decree-law of the new normality serve for little? No, it didn't do any good. It sounds like a joke. About a meter and a half, now I'll have to say a meter and a half and a millimeter, if I may say so. Not admitting any amendment of the main opposition party is the established will to dialogue, to approach, to understand, to dialogue, to consensus; a fallacy, a true fallacy. Instead of agreeing with the People's Group on the state agency for public health and quality of care that all experts and professionals demand, no, they negotiate an amnesty law; instead of agreeing on a human resources plan that recognizes the rights of health professionals, no, portfolios are distributed and it costs the Spaniards their human resources plan, that of senior officials of ministries, 47 % more senior officials, 7.5 million euros, not to mention the Plan Plus Ultra - I don't have time, but I could say more -; instead of negotiating a psychological care plan and designing protocols for patients, they protect the okupas. That has been their choice, that of the groups that support the Government, but they are not mistaken. It is not the choice of the Spanish, it is not the choice of the sanitary, it is not the choice of the patients, it is not the choice of the citizens, and soon we will see it; very soon, ladies and gentlemen. To no one strange, and with this I conclude, that far from being the solution you are more and more the problem. This Government will be remembered for its management of the pandemic and for its act on euthanasia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A year ago we lived with the pandemic and these days we remember its beginnings and its devastating effects on our health and lives, many of which we will always have in our memory. Today in our country we can say that people who have received doses of vaccines are more than people who have been infected since the beginning of the pandemic. They have received 5700 000 doses of vaccines, but we must remain on alert to avoid a fourth wave. This is an unimaginable progress a year ago; a progress on which our health personnel have been on the front line, which is the real tip of the National Health System; a key health personnel at this time and key in the first wave of the pandemic they received with the cuts practiced by the People's Party, 12 billion euros. Key was and is the science minimized in Spain by the right-wing government, as the Rajoy government eliminated the Ministry of Science and cut only at the Carlos III Research Institute more than 100 billion euros. Key to a citizen who is responsible and who is making many sacrifices to get out of the pandemic and key, and in the first line, a government that has taken as its absolute priority the health, life and recovery, the coalition government of our president Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] It is a government that has clearly had to come out of the health crisis and the economic crisis. It needs to come from the hands of Europe and the communities; co-governance to ensure the protection of health in its own territory, but also in each and every one of the others; solidarity in political action, in line with the great lessons of solidarity that citizenship gives us every day. And here let me make a personal reference. I am from Barcelona, but my origin is from Teruel, from Calanda, and in Teruel we have a saying that says: To the elderly person, do honor. I want to honor from this rostrum today to one of the first older women vaccinated in Spain who said: I vaccuum to protect others, I vaccuum not to contag. This is about stopping the virus, which is something very different, something very different, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, which opens the door to it, as its President of the Community of Madrid tries to do, breaking the consensus of the Interterritorial Council. [[Rumors]] An unfortunate president in comparisons, but very unfortunate in making decisions that, in addition to insolidarias, place Madrid in the epicenter of the pandemic in Spain and remove it from the new normality that regulates this law. A law that is born with the will to be a framework for territorial coordination that guarantees a common and urgent response as long as the crisis persists. The amendments adopted in the Senate fit this vocation, respect the nature of the rule and contribute to the adoption of a useful law, respectful of the Constitution and our legal system. And far from that were the amendments of the People's Group, those of the Senate and those of Congress, which sought a comprehensive regulation of all possible and impossible to predict situations, and in this way bind and manipulate the Interterritorial Council in its decision-making. In addition, most amendments clearly conflicted with the powers of the Autonomous Communities. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are far from the spirit of the law and far from the Constitution from which you three are further away every day when you vote against the state of alarm, which has the sole objective of safeguarding the constitutional right to health protection; when you vote against general budgets essential to articulate the greatest investment in social policies in our history that guarantee social rights that are constitutionally protected such as health, housing, education, pensions, social benefits such as unemployment, decent minimum wage or living income. [[applause]] And they also move away from the Constitution when they vote against European funds that will allow economic reconstruction of our country. You are positioned on a side that is neither constructive nor responsible, which is what this country needs today to get out of the crisis and away from the virus, but that goes to the harassment and destruction of a government that, among other things, recovers the universal health protection that you removed, and eliminates the pharmaceutical coffers that you imposed on pensioners, disabled minors and vulnerable families. The history of your governments, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tells us that for you health has not been a right to protect, only a business opportunity, but in this year of pandemic your actions far exceed the history that precedes you. Our group will vote in favour of all amendments to the Senate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Andres. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful, on behalf of the Government, for the final adoption of the Emergency Prevention, Containment and Coordination Act to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, more commonly known as the New Normality Act. The legislation that the Government brought to this House through the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 in June of last year crystallizes today definitively in a new law; a new law that incorporates the contributions that your ladies and gentlemen have made and also, of course, those of the Upper House. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has sought to accompany the final process of de-escalation of containment measures with the maintenance of the state of alarm so that the gradual and coordinated lifting of these measures, as envisaged in the plan for the transition to the new normality, does not compromise the achievement of the pandemic containment objectives set since the beginning of the health emergency situation caused by COVID-19. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the favourable development of the situation so far and to highlight the commitment and cooperation of all the competent delegated authorities. At the same time, I take the opportunity to recall the need to continue to cultivate the culture of care and prevention. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this law will allow for progress in the control of the pandemic, which will be the responsibility of all the administrations with competence in this country in their respective fields, as well as in the monitoring, inspection and monitoring of the correct implementation of the measures provided for in this new law. This means that this rule will be central to the management of the pandemic until it is declared final by the health authorities. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this rule captures much of the knowledge gained during the management of this sad and painful situation. I have said on many occasions that we enter this pandemic without navigation letters and without the necessary knowledge. Well, this rule is called upon to be a permanent source of knowledge and guidance not only for this Government. but for all those who have to make decisions under similar conditions; it will undoubtedly be the navigation guide that this Government was unable to provide at the beginning of this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this rule, accompanied by the documents that we have adopted within the Interterritorial Council, the National Health System, and the efforts we continue to make, will expand and strengthen the capacities of our National Health System and will improve our response as a country in the future to be much more resilient. The situation is changing and, despite the fact that some important collective efforts are still needed, such as the reduction in mobility that we have recently adopted in the Council, with the Vaccination Strategy, a horizon of hope is opening up for the whole of society. Vaccination is progressing at a good pace, ladies and gentlemen, a regulatory framework such as this law is still needed, because the disease of the virus to our daily lives and in the environment still persists. I reiterate to you, on behalf of the Government, the gratitude for the adoption of this law which as a royal decree-law has given us security and stability, and as a law will continue to provide us with a basic framework with the hope and commitment of all of us in overcoming this health, social and economic crisis. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u56	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u57	We turn to the items on the agenda relating to the request for an extension of one month to carry out the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair and the request for an extension until 30 June 2021 of the deadline for carrying out the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of troops, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to promote the political interests of the PP and to annul incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the mandates of the Government of the People's Party. These requests shall be put to the vote together with the rest of the votes which shall begin, as I have already announced, at 12.30 a.m. The plenary session was suspended until that time. Thank you very much. It is suspended at eleven and forty-five minutes in the morning. The meeting resumed at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u58	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen, and I also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from your seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u59	We started with non-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte, on the creation of a guarantee mechanism, for the rural environment and societies, in the design and implementation of laws and regulatory development, as well as in all policies of the Government and the autonomous communities. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Citizens Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; 64 plus 133 telematics votes, 197; abstentions, 41 plus 109 telematics votes, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u60	It's approved. - No, no, no, PROPOSAL NOT FOR THE LAW OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE 27.1 AND 27.2 OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION AND THE PROMOTION OF FREEDOM OF THOUGHT AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRITICAL CAPACITY OF Alumnus. [[File number 162/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u61	No bill of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on compliance with articles 27.1 and 27.2 of the Spanish Constitution and the promotion of freedom of thought and the development of the critical capacity of students. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Plural Parliamentary Group and the Citizens Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Miquel and Valentí]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; 64 plus 117 telematics votes, 181; 41 plus 120 telematics votes, 161; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u62	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u63	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the Government's policy of bringing prisoners of age closer to prisons near the Basque Country, as well as on the transfer of powers in prison matters to the Basque Autonomous Community. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 41 plus 112 telematics votes, 153; against, 64 plus 129 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u64	It's rejected. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the adoption by the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2021 of the Guidelines for the Sustainable Development Strategy 2030 and its implications for the future law of life. [[File number 173/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u65	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the adoption by the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2021 of the general guidelines of the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy and its implications for the future housing law. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. Point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 41 plus 117 telematics votes, 158; against, 64 plus 123 telematics votes, 187; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u66	It's rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 41 plus 104 telematics votes, 145; against, 64 plus 123 telematics votes, 187; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u67	It's rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 41 plus 114 telematics votes, 155; against, 64 plus 122 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u68	It's rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 41 plus 120 telematics votes, 161; against, 64 plus 121 telematics votes, 185.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u69	It's rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO STOP HUMMING TO THE VICTIMS OF STATE TERRORISM. [[File number 173/000059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u70	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on what steps the Government will take to stop humiliating the victims of ETA terrorism. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 105 plus 240 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 41 plus 112 telematics votes, 153; against, 64 plus 128 telematics votes, 192.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u71	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u72	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for a supplementary organic law to the Act amending Act No. 20/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Civil Registry, amending the Organic Act No. 6/1985 of 1 July 2011 on the Judiciary and amending the Organic Act No. 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code [[formerly known as the proposed supplementary organic law to the law amending Act No. 20/2011 of 21 July 2011 on the Civil Registry amending the Organic Act No. 6/1985 of 1 July 2011 on the Judiciary]] We are voting in the first place on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 105 plus 188 telematics votes, 293; against, 52 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u73	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u74	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 105 plus 189 telematics votes, 294; against, 52 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u75	The proposal for an organic law was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u76	Senate amendments. Proposition of the organic law regulating euthanasia. The whole text was voted on because it was of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 241 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 64 plus 138 telematics votes, 202; against, 40 plus 101 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u77	The text was adopted as it stood. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government present, stood up.-The ladies and gentlemen of the VOX parliamentary group, stood up, show different electronic devices in which it is read: We will repeal it.-This situation is prolonged for several minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have expressed what you wanted. I remind you that we cannot use banners in the House, that freedom of expression is through the word. [[Rumors]] I think they've already expressed it enough. I ask you, please, that we can continue with the votes. [[Rumors]] - DRAFT LAW ON EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR PREVENTION, CONTENTION AND COORDINATION TO BETWEEN THE HEALTH CRISIS OF COVID-19 [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 21/2020 OF 9 JUNE]] [[File number 121/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u78	Draft law on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19, from Royal Decree-Law 21/2020 of 9 June. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment adding a new additional provision concerning the possibility of extension of employment contracts concluded in the field of research. The vote will begin. [[Several ladies and gentlemen are leaving the Chamber.]] I ask you, please, to take your seats. We cannot enter or leave the Chamber in the middle of a vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 105 plus 170 telematics votes, 275; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u79	The amendment was therefore adopted. Amendment adding a new additional provision concerning the temporary abolition of the medical inspection visa required for the prescription of triple COPD therapy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 242 votes in favour, 346 votes in favour, 104 votes in favour, 190 votes in favour, 294 abstentions, 52 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u80	The amendment was therefore adopted. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; 64 plus 135 telematics votes, 199; 41 plus 50 telematics votes, 91; abstentions, 57 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u81	The amendments were therefore adopted. REQUEST FOR THE PROGRESS OF RESEARCH COMMISSIONS : [[VOTING]] - REQUEST FOR A MONTH'S PERIOD FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OPINION OF THE RESEARCH COMMISSION ON THE ACCIDENT OF THE JK5022 SPANISH VOICE. [[File number 152/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u82	Request for extension of commissions of inquiry. Request for an extension of one month to carry out the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK5022 from Spanair. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 105 votes in favour, 242 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 105 votes in favour, 242 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour, 347 votes in favour and 347 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u83	Accordingly, the extension of the period granted to the Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved. - REQUEST FOR THE PURPOSE TODAY 30/06/2021 OF THE TERM FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPINION OF THE RESEARCH COMMISSION ON THE ILLEGAL USE OF EFFECTIVES, MEDIA AND RESOURCES OF THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR, WITH THE FINALITY OF FAVOURING POLITICAL INTERESTS OF THE PP AND ANNUALING IMPLICATIVE TESTS FOR THIS PART IN CASES OF CORRUPTION, DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTY. [[File number 152/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u84	Request for extension until 30 June 2021 of the deadline for carrying out the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior, with the aim of favoring the political interests of the PP and nullifying incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the government mandates of the People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; 64 plus 194 telematics votes, 258; against 41 plus 48 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-18-CD210318.u85	Accordingly, the extension of the period granted to the Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved. Thank you very much and good morning. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 50 minutes from noon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
