ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September of urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas on retail gas and electricity markets. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and thank you very much for your presence at this session, which aims in this first part to present to you for validation the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September of urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas on retail gas and electricity markets; a decree-law which includes a set of temporary measures and structural measures to cushion the impact of the price on the wholesale market of natural gas on the final electricity and gas bill of consumers. We have witnessed a sudden, extraordinary, unprecedented rise in the price of gas in international markets, which has been rapidly and unexpectedly transmitted to the price of electricity in wholesale markets. It is a situation motivated by external factors undoubtedly, but to which the Government has an obligation to respond in favour of the general interest in order to prevent a decline in the competitiveness of our productive fabric, the deterioration of domestic economies or the disruption of the recovery, transformation and modernization of our productive systems. Let me remind you of some data to put into context and figures what we are talking about. The electricity price of the European wholesale markets, after marking a monthly minimum in February 2021, has recorded historical values never seen, unprecedented prices that happen week after week. The maximum point was the one marked on 7 October, a historical maximum daily of 288.53 euros the megawatt/hour in Spain, which, however, remained below other countries with higher values, as was the case in France with 298.3 euros megawatt/hour, Germany with 302.5 or Italy with 300.7 euros. The tension has even led the UK to live megawatt/hour prices of over £1400, China to order its industry to shut down 33% of hours, or India to take on power cuts for two or three hours. In the European case, we can see some circumstances associated with the design of the wholesale electricity market. In some ways it has been questioned by the huge cost differential of the different technologies, reflecting deorbited and sustained prices, however, for weeks, for months. The price of fossil fuels and their volatility generates an amplifying effect, which, sustained over time, makes the functioning of the market unfeasible as initially designed. The extraordinary increase maintained over time in the costs of a technology cannot be translated into the generalised increase in the price of all electricity, it cannot be assumed. It equals how much cheap energy there is in the system: the market marks the price of the most expensive. Our commitment as a government is to prevent this from having a sustained impact on consumers' bills. We know that every increase of one euro per megawatt hour in the cost of natural gas results in an increase in the price of electricity in the wholesale market of two euros per megawatt hour. It is true that what we are experiencing is largely due to a mismatch between supply and demand, in addition to other geopolitical factors. The lack of investment in gas infrastructure, the rapid recovery of global demand above the forecast after the pandemic, leading to a 35% growth in Chinese demand in the first half of the year in relation to its pre-pandemic demand, or the incidence of other geopolitical motivations have led to alarms among analysts, institutions, industry and governments. From the supply side, the hibernation of certain plants, the slowdown or even the reduction of investments in recent years has temporarily reduced the production and export capacity of natural gas, in addition to the smallest injection of natural gas from Russia to Europe. On the demand side, the faster than expected economic recovery, as indicated, has meant an increase in consumption above forecast. The truth is that Asia and Europe, with low levels of stocks to cope with winter, demand a volume of natural gas above previous years to minimize any supply risk in cold months. In other words, we find ourselves in a scenario in which supply does not correspond to demand, we all compete in the same market, promoting the quotation of natural gas upwards, and, as a result, we stress the price of electricity to the design of the electricity market; an unprecedented situation due to both its magnitude and its duration. Our conviction is that it is not feasible to maintain shortage prices for a long time, especially when the actual generation costs do not correspond to the increase in average system prices. Any recent forecasts regarding the evolution of gas prices, including the most adverse scenarios of analysts and international agencies just weeks or even days ago, have been out of date. It is therefore important to avoid or minimize the contagion of gas prices in electricity, as this would eventually be reflected in an increase in our goods and services and in the comfort of families. In this respect, we agree with the analysis made public yesterday by the European Commission. The impact of natural gas has an impact on the economy as a whole, especially on the most vulnerable groups and industry, which in our country, unlike in others, does not have sufficient long-term coverage. The mismatch between the supply and demand of natural gas and other raw materials on a global scale not only explains the tensions experienced, which I have already described, but also warns us of several things to which I have referred, but I want to summarize in a systematic way. Firstly, the September forecasts have been out of date; we do not know how long or how intense this situation will be, forcing us to review the measures taken and adapt them to the new circumstances. We trust that this will be temporary effects, but we must be prepared to deal with them. Secondly, the regulatory design of the electricity market has facilitated the amplification of the cost overrun of natural gas in the electricity price of the wholesale market. Thirdly, we are convinced that the most appropriate level of response is European, and that is why this is a matter that needs to be addressed with sufficient agility in order to be able to agree on exceptional responses to exceptional situations such as the current one. We are grateful for the proposals contained in yesterday's notification to the Commission on response measures. However, we are convinced that further work is needed. From Spain we have sent a number of proposals to the Community authorities. Firstly, reform the rules of the internal electricity market to prevent large cost differences between different generation technologies from burdening the final prices paid on the market. Secondly, limit the participation in the market of emission allowances to agents and operators subject to the obligation to deliver these rights and their representatives in order to avoid to the greatest extent possible distortions in the signal of CO2 prices motivated by speculative behaviour. Thirdly, to activate a centralised purchasing mechanism for natural gas and to create strategic gas reserves at European level. As I said, certainly our preference is the coordinated response at European level, obviously complemented by the necessary national measures. In parallel, it is necessary to update the mechanisms for governance and global coordination in the face of the simultaneous demand for the same goods in international markets. In any case, they have no doubt, speeding up the energy transition is the solution to this volatility. There is a need to adequately monitor the pace of supply and demand transformation. Against this backdrop, this Government continues to work to provide adequate responses to vulnerable families and consumers, to industry, particularly exposed to the price of electricity given its level of coverage, and to investors through the development of attractive investment frameworks that facilitate the acceleration of transition through the development of energy efficiency, electrification, distributed generation or penetration of renewable energy and storage projects in the system. This is not a novelty of this decree-law. In June, when the wholesale market set an average price of €83.3 megawatt/hour, far from current values, the government adopted a 10% VAT reduction for consumers with less than 10 kilowatts hired and the 7 % tax suspension per generation. These two measures reduced the price of electricity in the wholesale market in a cross-cutting way, so that the final bill for all domestic and industrial consumers felt a significant relief during the summer. In September, with the same commitment of June, we adopted the royal decree-law that I present today for validation. This is a shock plan in an extraordinary context with which we want to ensure that households, self-reliant, SMEs, industries and businesses can tackle economic recovery and, above all, we can protect the most vulnerable groups. In the coming weeks we hope to be able to complement it with additional measures to ensure coverage through bilateral contracts and reasonable prices prior to the spiral of natural gas for the industry, simultaneously reinforcing the position of vulnerable consumers receiving the social bonus. Allow me to briefly describe the measures included in this Decree-Law. Firstly, in the tax field, the 7 % tax suspension is extended during the fourth quarter of 2021 and the excise duty on electricity is reduced by 90 %, to the minimum permitted by the 2003 Directive establishing the Community system of taxation on energy products and electricity. The combination of these two measures, together with the temporary reduction of VAT and the injection into the electricity system of additional revenues linked to the revenues of CO emission auctions, represents an unprecedented fiscal effort: more than EUR 4 billion, an unprecedented figure from the public budget, to cover the electricity system. And to these measures of public spending are added others, such as the limitation of the rise of the regulated rate of natural gas during the last trimester of the year 2021 and the first trimester of 2022. The current regulation provides for the automatic quarterly review of tariffs based on the evolution of gas prices. This implies that the impact of the automatic review would have entailed an average increase in the last resort rate of 30 or 40 % compared to the update carried out in June 2021. Undoubtedly, this is something that is not easy to assume for any family, for any domestic consumer. This automatic increase would mean a huge economic effort for domestic consumers and SMEs precisely in the months in which gas is most demanded, during the autumn and winter months. That is why we have decided to adopt this temporary and exceptional measure, limiting in the next two quarters the increase in the tariff to an average maximum of 4.6 per quarter. On the other hand, the Decree-Law provides for the creation of long-term energy auctions with the intention of increasing the liquidity of the future electricity market and facilitating competition in the retail market, making it easier for these small traders to have access to electricity at reasonable prices other than those of the pool. One of the most important factors contributing to the lack of liquidity in future markets is the lack of incentive to participate in parallel to the marketing of electricity offered by vertically integrated groups. This lack of liquidity has a negative impact on competition. Independent marketers and large consumers have difficulty acquiring a significant volume of energy in the long term beyond a quarter without high premiums, holding back their investment decisions and putting their business plans at risk. That is why we believe it is appropriate to have a new instrument that will encourage entry and retain the development of companies with marketing activities, increasing competition and, therefore, seeking incentives, lower prices for the final consumer. Thirdly, the Decree-Law amends the Water Act to include criteria for the rational use of water resources. This reform specifies the criteria for the application of the regime laid down in Article 55.2 of the consolidated Water Act to ensure a rational use of the resource, compatible with its adaptation to the consequences of climate change and for the benefit of the environment and of all water users. For reservoirs greater than 50 cubic hectares of total capacity whose main uses are not the supply, irrigation and other agricultural uses, in cases where it is appropriate to attend to the reservoir of water and the seasonal prediction, the reform provides that the basin body must fix at the beginning of each hydrological year, on a proposal from the commission of the reservoir, a series of hydrological variables that maintain in an orderly manner the capacity of disassembly and turbine. In addition, the Decree-Law states that rational exploitation must be compatible with the development of sustainable economic activities linked to the dynamism of coastal municipalities, always within the framework of the order of preference for uses established in the relevant watershed hydrological plan. On the other hand, we create the concept of minimum vital supply. In line with the Energy Poverty Strategy and in accordance with our coalition commitment, with our government commitment, this royal decree-law creates the figure of the minimum vital supply, extending the four-month period provided for in the current legislation to ensure that vulnerable consumers do not see their supply interrupted at a minimum essential power to ensure comfort in homes. Perhaps the most mentioned exceptional measure in recent weeks has been to recover in favour of all consumers the extraordinary benefits that could have been obtained by electricity companies as a result of the natural gas price rally, a measure of a temporary character in the face of an aggravated situation over time regulating the ex-post reduction in the remuneration of non-emitting sub-marginal power stations up to 31 March for an amount proportional to the value of the contribution of gas on the Iberian market, excluding those receiving specific and small remuneration schemes. I want to make it clear, first of all, that it is a minority applicable only to those who have internalised those extraordinary benefits, not to those who have not; to those who have guaranteed stable prices before the escalation for those final consumers with whom they have hired him. And we do not want it to be for those who guarantee new stable prices that do not internalise the evolution of gas prices. On the contrary, we need to boost reasonable price coverage for our industry and that is why we are working to ensure its correct application and development. I am grateful for the efforts of all those who, from civil society, from the parliamentary side, from the industry from the very beginning, have helped to identify how to help in these exceptional circumstances. We will ensure above all that the consumer's interest, whether domestic or industrial, simultaneously favouring the acceleration of the energy transition, more investment in efficiency, distributed generation or electrification. I am sure that with the commitment and constructive will of all we will be able to mitigate the harmful effects of the evolution of the rise of natural gas quotation. Finally, in line with all the previous measures, the Decree-Law provides for the reduction of charges until 31 December 2021 by 97 %, thus instantly reducing the final bill to consumers. Beyond the specific content of the measures, as you may have had the opportunity to analyse and evaluate, I would like to emphasise the following aspects common to all of them: firstly, they are measures with a direct impact on the electricity and gas bill of the final consumers, aimed at counteracting the expected rising prices for this winter, with particular attention to vulnerable consumers; secondly, we identify those which are eminently temporary, extraordinary measures for an exceptional situation, and therefore different time horizons have been established in each case; and thirdly, they are measures that respect the principle of reasonable profitability, reliability and viability of new investments, i.e. measures with the triple objective of protecting consumers, ensuring that long-term contracts for industrial consumers are maintained and that new ones are closed at pre-spiral prices and developing an attractive regulatory framework for investments in energy transition, while last mentioning that our preference remains a coordinated and urgent action at European level to solve this problem alone, but rather laying the foundations of a current energy model in transition that responds to flexible and volatile resources. For this we will continue to work within the Community framework, for this we will continue to work within the national framework. Taking into account all the above, I request all groups to support the validation of this Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September of urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas on retail gas and electricity markets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u3	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. On behalf of that group, Mr Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I will refer in this speech to the royal decree that you have presented in this House, Madam Vice-President, not to the amendments that you have announced you are going to submit later. Its responsibility as Vice-President and Minister of Energy is to ensure a supply of 24 hours seven days a week - supply guarantee - an adequate price for families and businesses and the sustainability of the energy system in the environmental field. That's his obligation. Answers, results. Supply guarantee - then I'll explain it -: risks with gas. Price? What do you say? Since they announced the shock plan, the electricity market has risen by 48%, Madam Vice-President, from 15 September to 15 October; more than 200 % in the last eleven months, 36 euros megawatt/hour in October last year, and this October 200 euros. Therefore, prices are also bad, Madam Vice-President. Sustainability, reduction of CO2 emissions: investments in renewable energy are at risk, as you well know, because of the decree you have come to present, putting at risk the decarbonisation that we all share in this house, because it is an intergenerational pact between those of us today and those who will come. Why all this? For bad practice, for the lack of knowledge of the electrical system, for arbitrariness, for a prioriism, because you depend too much perhaps on an ideology that forces you to make and practice these policies. Either way, bad politics, Madam Vice President. [[Applauds]] We presented a text that intended to bring the charges, the non-energy costs to the general budgets of the state so that it was the budgets and the government that assumed those costs, not the citizens or the companies. What are you guys bringing here? An initiative that, in our view, is insufficient and generates more risks than benefits. We told him that he should extend the tax rebate over time, and limit it to 31 December. It effectively suspends 7%, and we said that 7% must be definitively removed from the invoice. They lower VAT from 21 % to 10 % only for some, not for all, not for the self-employed, for example, and it is a trap because lowering VAT when the term energy rises makes it safe for budgets. And, in addition, we are proposing and we are going to propose that there should be super-reduced VAT for the electricity bills of the most vulnerable families and people. They also bring CO2 emission allowances auctions from the electricity system to a limit of $2 billion. Why not everything, why not take those auction revenues to the most vulnerable? Why not? And then there's the famous star measure, the pay cut. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a guilty one with regard to hydraulic energy, nuclear energy, which produces 20% of the energy we consume in our country, and renewables as well. This is a wind and sun tax, Madam Vice President. When are they going to learn that when a tax is applied it is automatically transferred to consumers? Do they not realize that if a tax is imposed, the person who receives it automatically transfers it to the consumer? When are you going to learn, ladies and gentlemen? Minister, do vulnerable people pay more or less since you are Vice President of the Government? Do they pay more or less? In France there is a check, in Italy they have reduced taxes, we put a social discount bonus of 25 and 40% on the electric bill. What have you done? Nothing. They have not set a limit, for example, on the electric bill, a limit price, which they could have done. That's right, we're here talking about they're going to reduce the price of gas. But why not electric power? Why that asymmetry? There is that asymmetry because they are continually improvising and there is no planning at all. That's why you're here today. And what about the industry? They have transferred a new tax to the industry. What is Mrs Díaz going to say to you when the workers in these industries are seen on the street because of the EREs and the closures of companies that cannot bear the cost of electricity, which in many cases is higher than the raw material they use? What do you plan to do? Don't you realize that it is a brake on our country's economic recovery that is happening with industry? Without chemistry, without steel, without paper, without basic industry the energy transition in our country is not possible, it is impossible. There is no transition, no decarbonization without basic industry that works in our country. [[Applauds]] The price differential in a globalized and interdependent world like the current one is unusual. The price of electricity in Germany is 34 euros lower than in Spain, and 55 euros less in France. Without basic industry, Your Honor, it is not possible to decarbonize. Why do you not protect industry as the European Union has agreed, Madam Vice-President? Why don't you protect the industry? And I say this especially by referring to the Galician, cantabrian, Basque and Catalan Members of this house, to Esquerra, PNV, Together Cat, CAT, PRC and the Block as well. Abstaining or voting in favour of this royal decree makes them co-responsible for the results that this royal decree will have in the Spanish industry. [[Applauds]] The most perceptive, perhaps the most disastrous, is what has happened with renewable energy. This new wind and sun tax has caused the first weekend of October to have photovoltaic, solar and wind installations that had to stop 13 hours. For 13 hours we were importing energy from France, EUR 1 300 000, because these technologies had to stop; in the case of production, they would have to have paid for production. Is the energy transition possible without renewable energy, Madam Vice-President? Of course not. It is already being said in the European forums that the European Union could derail its energy transition process if it follows its steps, Madam Vice-President; that, in addition, it has recently also innovated in the judicial, legal and parliamentary fields. They recently placed an explanatory note of this royal decree on the ministry's website to explain it and at five days they removed it. This is the rigour with which they are handled in the ministry you lead, Madam Vice-President. Look, it's a very simple economy lesson that I'm going to explain to you now: if you reduce the supply with a rigid demand, the price goes up. That's always the case. And what did you do? Reduce energy supply in the market. You said close the coal. It closes the coal. There is no longer, even, coal reserve as is the case, for example, in Germany, and you know it. He wants to shut them down in 2035, we shut them down. What about the hydraulics? I'm not worth it either. Everything to gas, which in an interdependent globalized market is a message of buying gas. Do you not realize that you have sent that signal to the markets, Madam Vice-President, that you are co-responsible? I'm not Nostradamus, but I told him on January 26 this year, nine months ago. I said: The problem is in the gas reserves. As you've been betting on gas, you'll have some way out, some way out. I ask you: Do the current underground gas reserves in Spain cover all the time we could cover or do we lack seven days of consumption, for example? The pipeline linking Algeria with Spain is two. Morocco closes on 1 November. Congratulations! This has a lot to do with international politics and what has happened to the Saharans recently. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I, in view of the fact that we are on an energy island that has reduced pipelines, will you have opted for interconnections? Since she is vice president the interconnections have grown zero; zero in three years, not a kilometer. We have liquefied natural gas facilities: six in our country. Are they at full performance to guarantee eighteen days of supply in our country? No, no, Have you promoted, through Cores, that it is an institution of public law that you supervise, that the reserves are greater and guarantee that winter is not a terrible winter like the one that awaits us with these prices and this international demand? No, no, You have therefore not taken the steps you must take as responsible for this matter, Madam Vice-President. He must rectify, like his companion Yolanda Díaz, who is sitting here with us today. I will explain it to you only once, Mrs. Díaz, because I believe that once you will understand it perfectly. He has, on repeated occasions, in control sessions lacking the truth, and I take this opportunity to rectify. Endesa's first shares as a public company were sold in 1988; he was President Felipe González. Endesa's definitive privatisation and the switch to a company based in Rome took place between 2005 and 2009; José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Let's see if it's recorded in your head and you stop missing the truth in the control sessions, Mrs. Díaz. [[Applauds]] They have therefore created instability in the markets, they have frightened investment, there is no planning, there are no reforms and they do not talk to anyone, Madam Vice-President, nor to the agents, not even to the main opposition party, to anyone. So you can't get a consensual, intelligent, just transition. Don't you realize that you must accompany the actors on this journey to transition, to change in a productive way, encouraging changes to introduce green energy capital? Don't you realize that you have to go with tax incentives and not punishing as you do? Correct it, Madam Vice President. This royal decree is the paradigm of politics practiced by Mr. Sánchez. It's a perfect three-point equilateral triangle. The first, pride: I don't listen to anyone and I don't talk to anyone, regardless of whether this measure seriously harms the vulnerable and seriously harms industry. On the other hand, they have not evaluated the results of these policies. They are surprised when they find that disappointment, they do another measure, a spiral of measures and so, successively, to the worst in each of them, as I have shown, with the result of the rise in the price of electricity, Madam Vice-President. The third point, an absolute irresponsibility. You're never responsible for anything. Aznar, Rajoy, Putin, tomorrow I don't know who it is. Now, apparently, photovoltaics and wind are also responsible for what is happening in our country, Madam Vice-President. I believe that it must be rectified, and that it must not be lacking in the truth in this House. You have submitted a royal decree that you did not speak of when you intervened. You are putting on the table the amendments you intend to table when you know that this royal decree is absolutely inefficient, detrimental to the economy, that it is going to subtract and laminate economic recovery and that it is therefore serious for the future of our country. The People's Parliamentary Group will therefore vote against, as it cannot be otherwise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno was the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u6	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support validation. We are alarmed and deeply concerned about this rise in electricity prices and are, like many citizens, overwhelmed. However, we demand that the Government and the electricity companies provide reliable and clear information through concepts that are understandable to all citizens. We believe that the envisaged mechanism for reducing the excess remuneration of the electricity market caused by the high price of natural gas quotations on international markets is necessary, at least on a provisional basis as planned. In a public concession such as, for example, hydraulics can never be a right to speculate with that good or with natural resources. We are therefore concerned about the way in which the deployment of renewables is taking place in the territory. The increase in electricity cannot be used as an excuse to do so without respect for the natural and cultural heritage of our territories. The power plants take the benefits, but leave the impacts and the industrial machinery in exchange for nothing. The rise in prices is due, as you well know, to the international market, ineffective regulation and unlegitimate practices on the part of the actors, but this cannot be an excuse to justify the arbitrary and disorderly occupation of the territory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u7	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u8	I just want to say that precisely to defend this distributed generation model and to denounce the impacts on deployment, the Aliente platform and one hundred and seventy citizen organizations, among them Teruel Existe, are going to manifest on the next day 16 for an energy transition that benefits people, to claim once again 'Renewable yes, but not so'.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mr Martínez Oblanca, whom I thank for making his speech, for a minute, from his seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs Ribera. At the beginning of June 2018, when you had not yet taken office, since Moncloa they warned the European Commission of the turn that the new government was going to take in energy policy. Equilicua!: three years and four months later the Spaniards paid the receipt of the highest light in history, more than double that on the arrival of Pedro Sánchez, and today you present cosmetic measures that barely mitigate the economic calamity that the lack of light has for families, businesses, industry and for the shopping basket. Madam Vice-President, instead of promoting competitiveness, innovation and employment, the impacts of its radical ecology, closures and untenable demagogy have harmful direct consequences, with closures, desertification and industrial damage. In Asturias, too, we are particularly affected by the intransigence of its management and by the enormous energy failure of the Government, which has also lost all credit in this area. That is why I will vote against validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u12	Good morning. Thank you very much. We are going to validate this decree because it is something that citizens have been demanding urgently, but we think that an important retouching is necessary. I am not going to repeat the arguments in favour or against. I can say that we value the tax reduction positively in a situation like the one we live in. It is logical for the Government to act in what it has competence and can act directly without problems with third parties. There are other more questionable measures. I just want to make a small point about the minimum vital supply. Energy supply is important for all families and not only for those in extreme vulnerability. It's such a basic product that all families would have to have a minimum. All families receive the light every month, therefore, a universal minimum with an affordable fixed price for at least all households and from there progressive market prices I think it would be very beneficial also together because it favors and would encourage energy saving. I think it's a matter of getting to it. We already know that it is very complex, but everything is possible with the means we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that every day we have a historical record in the price of electricity and there is only one thing that grows more than the price of electricity, which is the government's incompetence. They make a decree to lower the price of electricity and since it was approved electricity has risen twice as much. There have been days when we have reached the price of 300 euros megawatt/hour, something absolutely unacceptable, but it is that, above not being able to reduce the price of electricity, they increase the price of gas or of hydrocarbons and, moreover, they cause the hack that you put on the electricity-related companies to impact other customer companies that have to stop production, as we are already seeing in some companies in the Basque Country, which means, of course, destruction of employment and economic paralysis. That is, in a colloquial language, you are making a bread like cakes with this decree, because you cannot have more incompetence than the decree that brings us here today for your approval. It is true that Mr Garzón when the light was growing in this country 5% was talking about the poverty of the country we have. Today you should not worry too much that the light has grown by 300 % because here it is not, with which, much poverty since being a minister should not worry you. Just as long as he has a ministry, he no longer knows what poverty is. But the Spaniards know very well what poverty is, because they have to choose at what time they iron or put the washing machine, because the price of light, electricity, has increased by 300 % since you are in the government. And what you have clearly is that with you you can; you can get worse every day, because it's nothing that we've seen with electricity for what we're going to see this winter with gas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u16	Good morning. Good morning, Minister. For us this royal decree is a good step, a first step for the control of the situation. We know that the situation is not easy, that IBEX companies have even dared to threaten to shut down nuclear power plants and therefore seems to us to be a first step, but insufficient. In fact, your analysis of consumer price control does not seem to us to be sufficient. We think that the issue of access to energy as the main democratic pillar is, therefore, not a topic of scarcity, but of common resources: who has the capacity to access and what limits companies that make money with energy have. In fact, there are companies that are stopping production right now because they can't pay the bills for light and there are families that can't pay either. We wanted to talk about water today. You, in Article 10 of the Royal Decree, speak of the efficient use of water resources; in fact, you amend the Water Law, but we miss a fundamental element, and it is that you say nothing about hydroelectric power plants. In many villages in the Pyrenees, hydroelectric power stations should already be in public hands, in the hands of citizens, but they continue to be in the hands of companies, despite the fact that concessions in many cases have expired. Next week we will present a non-law proposal here on hydroelectric power stations and on the need for them to return to public and common hands; we hope to obtain from you the favorable vote, which is the vote that would extend this royal decree to the needs that citizens have. It is unthinkable that in the midst of the climate crisis hydropower companies make money instead of guaranteeing energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with the observation of a fact, of a reality: the elites, in this case the electric oligopoly, have launched a pulse of blackmail to the government to keep their profits at the expense of the citizenry. This is something that we pointed out five or six months ago from this very rostrum the Basque sovereignist independenceist left towards the whole of citizenship and, unfortunately, we have seen that this thesis that we hold then has only made itself confirmed day by day and thanks, that must be pointed out, to the sincerity with which the heads of the electric oligopoly have manifested themselves. On what basis are we to say that this is the finding of a fact? Very simple things. In view of the first measure, which involved a reduction in revenue in the public coffers by tax exemption or tax reduction, in one case 21 to 10 % and in another, 7 to 0 %, how did the electrics react? By announcing the threat of stopping nuclear power to make energy capture more difficult. We also do not forget that during all this time, to the calls of the Government and the people for those who had obtained more benefits during the period of COVID even extraordinary will bring more, what was the answer? Make deaf ears. Nor do we want to forget that emptied of swamps or of affluent reservoirs and with 'agstity'. What was the electrical response when they were asked to come here to explain why they had done that? That they didn't have to show up here. And it should be remembered that they were able to do so or say it because in this Chamber there were majority political forces who decided that Mr Galán, for example, did not have to appear before those who claim to be representatives of popular sovereignty. And now, when this government, around mid-September, focuses on the measures it wants to announce in order to put an end to this situation of kidnapping that the citizens live by the electric oligopoly, how did the electrics respond? Well, at first saying that we had to ask for rigour in the analysis and not for timely heating; perhaps this is the only statement with which the people of Euskal Herria Bildu can agree but, of course, the same person who said this, who was the president of Iberdrola, said four days later that the dialogue was open for the continuation of the terrorist interventionism in the electrical system. The same person, Mr Sánchez Galán, that very day, perhaps to balance this from the terrifying interventionism, said: in Iberdrola we have been demonstrating our empathy and commitment to the well-being of citizens for decades. They may have been tired of showing empathy for decades and now prefer to be tremendously unfriendly to citizens. But the same person, Mr Sánchez Galán, on 9 October, four days after these statements, charged the Government with saying that with extremists it cannot be ruled, and the last offensive they have launched against this decree is to put companies, industries, as a ram at their service to charge against the Government. And that which this royal decree only raises, as has been pointed out, temporary measures - i.e. with an expiry date, it seems that there is no need to explain it -, short-term - i.e. that it does not seek structural changes - and extraordinary - i.e. of a limited application while the extraordinary time lasts. That's why they launched this offensive. This decree only proposes to operate or act on three fundamental elements: the one that has to do with gas, with water and with fiscal policy, with taxes. We believe that it is a boonist decree, not a bad one, but rather a rather innocent one, because to propose that exempting the electrics from the tax on the value of production of electric energy will serve so that they can offer again at more competitive prices is simply innocent because, if this can allow, why have they not already done so, if they are already enjoying that exemption and what they have shown us is that they do not care or that they think little of that exemption and that they do not intend to reduce their escalation in the increase in the search for benefits? More tax cuts are proposed for electricity companies, more money for electricity companies for greenhouse gas emission allowances, in short, more public money for them to make some gesture, some gift to citizens. Are you required to bet your money, make less money? No, surely because they live in godliness they think that their kingdom is not of this world and they probably do not propose that they have to see their benefits reduced, they suggest that in any case it is the Government, the citizenry, who pays for their benefits to be maintained. This royal decree is going to have a certain continuity, let's hope it comes out and we will vote for it, without changes, I say so too. We believe that this decree is the minimum required floor, which cannot be lowered, but, as I say, this royal decree is going to be the landing ground for another more important debate to which citizens will not lose their eyes. How can companies that have earned more money during the COVID, and even when there was no COVID, be opting to rescue or recover EUR 58 billion from European funds? Of the 144 billion that the Spanish State is going to receive, they opt to receive €58 billion from funds that everyone knows as recovery funds.What do those who have not lost anything but earned more have to recover? In the light of this picture, what we see is that the electricians do what they do is to pass on their expenses to consumers, they said it yesterday in this rostrum and it is true. But what do we plan to do? What can we do? Because it was also said yesterday in the debate in this House that it was necessary to prevent electricians from playing at their will or that it is not acceptable for them to use ram companies for their own interests. For if all this is so, and it seems that in that there is a great consensus, what we would have to ask ourselves is something that a certain Vladimir wondered more than a hundred years ago, what to do?, because two things can be done, or yield to the blackmail of the electrics - because there are those who pointed out from the banks on the right to see what has happened, that by attacking the elites they have punished the popular classes -, look elsewhere and yield to the blackmail of the electrics so that they do not continue to punish the popular classes, or confront them with clear policies. We and we, the Basque sovereignist independenceist left, are in that second position. We do not go as far as a Government of this country was able to go a few years ago. I'm going to talk to you about 23-F, but I'm not scared, I'm not going to talk about 23-F of 1981, but about 23 February 1983. On that day a decree of two articles, signed by which he was then the king and now is a traveler and then the president of the Government, pointed out the expropriation of a company because this expropriation was due to public utility or social interest. As I say to you, I am not going that far, but what we do propose is that the blackmail of the electrics be stopped, because someone pointed out yesterday that this can bring down the government. What can bring down the Government without any doubt is that the electricians continue to be allowed to earn all the money they want at the expense of the popular classes, because it was the popular classes that put this Government, not the electric ones.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u20	Egun on. Good morning. Vice-President, this decree contains measures aimed at reducing the bill on the tax side, on charges and even on tolls, but not on the price-fixing side, since the marginalist system is in Europe's hands. It is a system that was created when the fixed and variable costs of technologies were similar and should be reviewed today, because the costs of current technologies differ greatly from one another. In this regard, we must recognise your efforts, Vice-President, together with that of other countries, to open up the European Union to this possibility, even in the long term. Having said that, we are also concerned about the measure concerning the reduction of the excessive remuneration associated with the price of gas, not because of the reduction itself, because we have always said that the transition has a cost and that we must pay it among all - consumers, economic and industrial sectors - and help those who need it most in this process, but because of the impact this measure has on industry at a time when it is trying to get out of the pandemic crisis. It is a measure which mainly affects large electricity companies, but which, as the current decree states, also affects producers of renewables that are financed with PPPs or with closed roofs and that has had to be clarified in order not to affect this minority, an interpretative rectification that is collected with clamps. I have been hearing for several days with amazement that the debate only revolves around positioning itself with or against electrics, as if everything else does not matter, forgetting the repercussions on the industry, forgetting about equity, because these measures, although positive, help almost equal all domestic consumers with different incomes and even benefit more those who have a light contract with a fixed price - those who do not affect the rise of the pool - than those of the PVPC; not forgetting also the existence of instruments used to stabilize prices, we forget that, without wanting to do so, the price of the industry will be increased. The debate goes much further, because the underlying problem is still there, which is nothing other than the electricity market, a market that does not work as well as it should. In this sense, as our spokesman said yesterday, it must be ensured that companies that have a diversified generation mix, with all kinds of technologies, do not play with them by putting them in place or making them to achieve greater profit or that even, with the revenues of that mix, they could possibly modify market prices. By the way, a public or private enterprise cannot lower prices if it has only one technology, if it is monoculture. We understand that it may be reasonable to want to deduct certain benefits for reasons of general interest in an exceptional situation, but I believe that, driven by the need to try to lower the invoice, we have not taken into account the existence of all the type of bilateral contracts or PPP that the industry uses to have a competitive and stable price. We have also assumed that all generators and marketers receive the pool price, when this is not the case, because not all the energy sold refers to the wholesale market price. If this measure is not modulated or corrected, what is going to happen - and in fact is happening - is the opposite effect of what is intended, that this additional cost for the large ones is passed on to the companies, to the industry, which have signed stable prices and is worse the remedy than the disease. It is not a question of giving in, and there is no reduction, but rather of modulating, correcting the measure so as not to harm those who already have a fixed price through a PPP. Nor is it acceptable for electric companies to try to use their own interests to defend their own interests, but the reality is clumsy and all of us believe that we are aware that it is the companies that will ultimately be affected by this proposed reduction, in addition to a context in which we have a fragile economy, recovering from a pandemic, and with companies with still tight margins. If we join this with the supply crisis, we'll finish up. We already have the first warnings: halting Sidenor's production in Euskadi. Is this what we want to get? Do we want to put the industry at risk? This measure can serve in the short term to reduce the charges of the invoice, but it can be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, because the electricity market is the same, they are the same rules of price fixing, a marginalist system, where the price of balance will continue to mark the opportunity costs of the generation. However, if the problem is the exercise of market power on the part of the big ones, let us take steps in this direction, let us make the future market more liquid, let us negotiate more volume, so that all the traders can access it, we can close positions giving rise to much greater competition and a certain price construction, because what is clear is that the big companies, when carrying out the price coverage between them, do not have incentives to go to these markets. In this regard, we certainly appreciate that the decree provides for the promotion of long-term procurement through auctions. And as long as there is no redesign of the marginalist system, the market for term contracts, PPPs, in a more transparent, physical, financial way, should also be encouraged to achieve price stability, as well as to develop capacity mechanisms. We are aware of what this decree implies in positive terms, especially at the level of domestic consumers. We have no doubt that it will go ahead, but my group understands that we cannot afford to overburden the industry. The easy thing would be to make a speech in black and white - we just heard it - without nuances and vote without worrying about the concrete consequences. It's not our style. Consumers must be protected, but also industry must be protected because it is essential if we are to ensure economic recovery, investment and employment. If anything has taught us the pandemic, it is the need for a strong and resilient industry. We cannot afford decisions that further undermine their competitiveness and, of course, threaten their viability. Although we also know that if they come wrong, some will stand in front of companies with banners. This is not simply a reduction of some profits to electricity or a public enterprise, or that by lowering taxes or passing charges to the State General Budgets the high prices will be solved by a plumage and the problems of the electricity market will be solved. I wish it were that way! But it's not. This energy shock has shown us that there are no easy solutions to complex problems, let alone in the electricity market, and has demonstrated the need for all of us to understand very well the functioning of energy markets in order to carry out any kind of reform. Therefore, we believe that in the case before us and since the Government has opened up the possibility of clarifying, modulating or correcting this decree, this correction must come from the dialogue and agreement between the Government and the companies concerned: how much to minimize, to whom to minimize, how to divide the minority among the most vulnerable consumers, etc. This is the way and on it, minister, you will certainly be able to count on our collaboration. For all these reasons, we will abstain in the validation of the decree and vote not on its processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u22	Thank you, President. The problem of the continued rise in electricity prices weeks ago has become a state problem and at this point, Minister, you should recognize it. It is a problem that affects all Spaniards, all of them, families, self-employed, SMEs, industries, farms and livestock, all of them. Today, the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 comes to Congress, a royal decree that does not like the Government itself, which has had to go backwards as the criticisms were coming. What is happening is that the Government is not able to take an effective step back and acknowledge that it has not done so well once again. Today the megawatt/hour price will be at 215.63 euros, being this the fifth highest price in history, the fifth highest price in history! We paid 487% more today than on the same day last year. If so good is this royal decree, if it was a royal decree to take immediate action that reduced the bill, how come we still can't see the supposed positive effects on our bill? I say that, after several weeks in force, we should have seen a significant drop in our bill and the effect of this measure is to pay 487% more today than on the same day last year. I'm sorry to say that this royal decree is a failure from the very beginning. In Citizens for weeks we have proposed the urgent creation of a state energy table, in order to achieve a state energy pact, where all actors have something to say and can do so there, where political parties can also propose initiatives and discuss them with the most affected sectors, and where we come to consensual decisions that allow families and businesses to minimize the impact of this rising price of light. Do you think it is normal for the government to meet with the electricians the day before the debate of this royal decree, the day before the validation of this royal decree is voted here? Well, maybe it's that until Mr. Carmona got to the electrics they didn't have a way to close a meeting, I don't know. What have the representatives of our country's industry told you? Because without industry we won't get out of the crisis, without those jobs we won't get out of this crisis. The truth is that, once again, we see how the government subordinates the interest of the Spaniards to their prosperity and their own political interests in order to satisfy their partners in the United Nations Podemos. Some of the measures contained in this royal decree are positive - of course, there are some - but we also find one that creates more problems than benefits. The remuneration reduction mechanism introduced in Title III is little less than unjustified and arbitrary market intervention, which is hardly compatible with the market economy and free competition. Furthermore, we are extremely concerned about the precedent that this sets for the Government to decide, at its discretion, in the future to cut the benefits of an entire sector. The mechanism for reducing unissued CO2 remuneration is a tool that, although it is certainly better - and we will do so at the amendment stage - has room in our social market economy at the time when it cuts off extraordinary benefits of purely regulatory origin, the CO2 emission allowance market, which companies could not have foreseen when planning their investment. But in the case of this royal decree-law is completely different - the government knows it well - first because the reduction of the remuneration it proposes, unlike that of CO2, is made on the basis of a totally arbitrary criterion, which has nothing to do with the one with the regulatory benefit, but with the natural increase of the relative costs of different technologies. Hydropower does not affect gas and benefits from its major cost, yes, but like a solar plant it does not affect the cost of the radioactive material or the wind energy sector it does not affect the rise in the wage costs of the coal agreement. If we start cutting back on the gas, why stop there? What it seems is that they want to dismantle the marginalist system by the back door and, instead of proposing another system - this debate would be legitimate and, in any case, should be done at European level - they make a splash that destroys the advantages of the marginalist model and does not bring any advantage to alternative models. What does the European Union say about the measures we are implementing with this royal decree-law? Because it was you, Minister, who said that we would have to implement measures that were within the framework that the European Union defends, and here we know that the European Union does not even want to talk about those measures. This measure, in force since the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law in the Council of Ministers, is already having very negative consequences for our country's industry. We have seen how companies in the industry have already decided, rather than producing losses, to paralyse their production. That brings about job destruction. We have seen how many companies have already done so, for example Fertiberia or the ceramics industry in Valencia. Does the government know the consequences of all this? They know them perfectly well. In fact, in a few weeks we've been able to meet them, but they want to hide them. It puts the employment of our industry at risk, it puts its survival at risk, it undermines the competitiveness of our country, it puts the investments that can reach our country not only in renewables but for all kinds of industry; it also puts the achievement of the CO2 emission reduction targets at risk. Yes, minister, it puts them at risk. If we are to make an ecological transition, we must be careful about the measures being taken. This royal decree-law supposes a blow to renewable energies, which you are supposed to try to push, but for them they are collateral damage, and you do not care. This Government has been promoting long-term recruitment in the sector for months and is now giving an inexhaustible hack to those who had entered into short-term contracts to reduce prices and volatility. There have already been the first cases of wind and photovoltaic power plants that have had to stop production and disconnect from the network in periods when they did not, precisely because of the government's improvised measures. And, if that were not enough, they jeopardized the bilateral contracts for energy supplies, which gave our companies, our industry - especially the most consumers of electricity - stability in the face of market price changes. Let's get in full swing at structural reforms, minister. If they have detected - and we all know it - that there are structural problems in the electricity market, they really bet on facts, but without collateral damage reaching renewables. If we want to make a fair transition we have to take fair measures, we have to respect free trade, we have to give legal certainty to the...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u23	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u24	I'm on my way. ...people who have to invest in our country and there will be Citizens, but not with measures that they only do is to waste our competitiveness... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Vice-President, given the harsh reality of an uncontrolled escalation of electricity prices and social pressure, the Government was forced to act, but it does so with palliative or containment measures, because it does not seem willing to face the real problem: a regulation of the electricity system that is designed to promote the interests of large companies and their profit accounts, rather than putting electricity production at the service of the public interest and of fair economic and social development. In June, it adopted first measures which were clearly ineffective. By the way, the BNG then warned that it seems to us an error to suppress or reduce, even temporarily, the electricity generation tax. What needs to be done is to prevent companies from having an impact on the bill, because if not, we are the consumers who are paying for it and not the companies. It is true that this decree-law goes a little further - for something raised the public threat of the big electrics - but it is no less true that it remains insufficient, to begin with, because these are temporary measures, such as the intervention of the gas price, which is planned to regularize from March 2022. We need determination to change things and we have to say that, unfortunately, we do not see it in the Government, on the contrary. We are concerned about his latest statements when he talks about revising this proposal if Europe takes other measures or yesterday's of the President of the Government. The question is whether they respond to the pressures of electric oligopoly. Finally, we will vote in favour, but, as I say, we understand that it takes a decision to act and to continue taking steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u27	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes has the floor for the same parliamentary group. Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u28	Thank you, President. From More Country-Greens Equo we will vote in favour of the royal decree and, in addition, we support it to be transmitted urgently. This urgent decree is necessary, but we cannot delay the permanent and structural measures, which are absolutely necessary. As we have repeated many times, this Government is going to receive the same toll for blunt measures as by accumulating measures, so it is better to make them permanent, effective and courageous. Because it is not serious that a key sector for national security, for industry and for consumers is in the hands of those who are willing to use blackmail on our country. And why are they blackmailing us? Because they can, ladies and gentlemen, because they can; because as a result of the privatizations of the 1990s and especially in their times of government, they gave them the common heritage, they gave them the ball, the referee and even the field and, logically, they now believe that they can dominate and decide how this party is played, and it is not possible. It is clear that in a situation where the price of gas and emission allowances is rising, they have looked for their profits, not for the common benefit and, if necessary, taking industry and companies hostage, and that is what cannot be allowed. The oligopoly companies are liberal in packaging: interventionism, but at the same time going to the funds. They are blackmailing us all, ladies and gentlemen, and we should not allow it in this House. No one should be doing the oligopoly work, because that is a betrayal of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u30	Thank you, President. Even in the face of an energy price crisis such as we are experiencing, it is not justified that urgent measures end up being improvised measures, generating regulatory insecurity and re-injuring renewables, as the sector in Catalonia has told us. The Royal Decree provides for the reduction of the remuneration of installations that do not emit CO2 - including renewables installed on the peninsula - by more than 10 megawatts and that have not recognized a remuneration framework. This situation has caused great disconcerting because it goes against the ecological transition. For citizens to understand, renewables benefit economically by not emitting CO2, and that's good because it stimulates their implementation and makes them more attractive to investors. The Royal Decree limits their benefit even in cases of supply contracts already signed as PPP. In the face of the confusion, the sector asked the ministry to issue a clarification note ensuring that the royal decree would not affect photovoltaic or wind installations. The note was published and published. Since Junts, if I may be ironic, we would have voted in favour of the ephemeral note, but let us abstain from a real decree which, in addition to punishing renewables, is not very efficient for consumers in the medium term and also generates clear regulatory insecurity for small traders for the benefit of oligopoly. This royal decree, moreover, is born out of date. It was recorded two weeks before Algeria's announcement that at the end of the month it stopped exporting gas to Spain through the viaduct that passes through Morocco, which provides a quarter of the gas consumed in Spain. Therefore, it does not take into account the new outbreak of the market. Between 1 September and 1 October the price of gas planned for November doubled, already close to 100 euros megawatt/hour. Days ago it reached 150 euros. Then Putin spoke to reassure Europe, promising more Russian gas and the price fell by 40%. And the worst thing is that the price may come down again, but not because the gas supply problem is solved - with Algeria, in this case - or because Putin talks again, but because demand falls when many intensive spending industries close down when they can't afford to pay for energy at this price and remain competitive. The Royal Decree establishes a series of patch measures that attempt to contain, with little success, the price of the invoice. They start from 70 euros megawatt/hour and we are already at more than 200. Winter is coming and, in addition, returns the VAT of 21. Once again, we ask them to revolutionize the market to achieve a sustained reduction. Put a stop to the price of nuclear, such as France; leave out the auction of the wholesale market spot nuclear and large hydraulics, so that they do not sell their electricity at the most expensive price marked by the combined gas cycle; remove the current restrictions on self-consumption and make it possible for energy communities to be more than 500 metres away from the installations associated with their self-consumption. Blockchain technology and digitization today allow it. In short, put the end consumer at the centre of the energy model change and help me to become independent from oligopoly. That is an adjustment that guarantees the energy transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u32	Good morning, good morning. Mr Mariscal came a minute ago - who spoke as well as wrong - to hold on to my seat that we would vote for this royal decree and I wondered why, and I told him that I would answer it with a joke, although the thing is not for jokes. They tell of a minister who had an assistant who asked him: Minister, is Valladolid written with axe? And he answered him, Of course. And he that was with him saith unto him, But, minister, how sayest thou this unto him? Vice President, to see where you put it. [[Laughter]] It's complicated weeks, very complicated. This summer we were shocked when the price of megavatio exceeded values... [[Applauds]] I've only got seven minutes, forgive me. As I said, we are shocked when the price of megawatts exceeds values of 100 euros megawatt/hour, spraying all kinds of records, and here we are, in the middle of October, reaching prices that already exceed by more than 200 euros the megawatt/hour and with paradoxes of solar plants stopping for hours, as has already been mentioned. The situation is, of course, worrying. Small businesses already devote 30% of their production costs to paying the bill for light, 3 out of 10 euros. Thousands of families do not know how they will be able to pay a bill for light, so necessary to cook or warm up, which has multiplied in a matter of months. Because we cannot and must not forget, Minister, Vice-President, that electricity is not a luxury, it is a basic good. Ensuring access to all citizens is a priority for any Government that is considered to be minimally progressive. And, given this situation, the impotence; the impotence seeing that in the face of this escalation of light prices the benefits of electricity continue to reach billions; the impotence seeing that, in the face of increasing energy poverty, the rotating doors that connect the political class with electricity continue to work. Without going further, the example of last week's socialist Carmona to Iberdrola. Our analysis of the situation is as follows: the short-term factors of which, of course, no matter how much one engages, the Government cannot be blamed, such as the escalation of gas prices, explode in an outdated, oligopolistic energy model, for which the general interest has never prevailed. We are therefore facing the perfect storm. The solution it proposes, for the moment unsuccessful, Republican Left for the unsustainable increase in electricity prices is through a comprehensive and courageous reform of the electricity market. We have defended it in countless occasions, and so we had it approved to you in an amendment to the Climate Change Act, which gave you a year of time - and it was approved in May - for reform. We must accelerate the deployment of renewables, we must promote energy efficiency policies, we must invest more resources to combat energy poverty, we must clearly increase competition in all segments of the electricity market, separating generation, distribution, transport and marketing businesses in order to put an end to the electric oligopoly. We must speed up measures which may seem small, but which certainly help, for example, to no longer entertain the regulation of closed networks. And, of course, already put to order, put an end once and for all to the rotating doors. Esquerra defends an energy model that drives 100 per cent renewable energy, zero kilometre and the democratization of the electricity market. Not having done so on our own time, too, to the current situation. That is why we will continue to work for a democratised, cheap and clean energy, because we understand that the more democratised, the cheaper, the cheaper, the cleaner. We are concerned about the legal uncertainty that measures can cause in the renewable energy sector, as has already been said, and there are a number of issues that need to be changed. Please do the calculations well, measure the consequences of hasty and insufficiently rigorous decisions which, in turn, produce price increases for consumers, reduce the number of operators, thereby reducing competition, and stop investment in renewable energy. We are also concerned that electric companies impact their losses on fixed contracts for industrial customers. Industry is experiencing a serious raw material supply crisis which, linked to this unusual increase in energy prices, can cause unprecedented damage in the sector. It is vital for the economy to take decisive measures to prevent the collapse of an industry that maintains thousands of quality jobs. Madam Minister, we are one step away from inflation and two steps away from stagnation. We therefore hope that these aspects will be remedied in the nearest parliamentary procedure, in our case the law on CO2 compensation. Moreover, that the aid to the productive fabric is not at the expense of the rest of the consumers; apostles the necessary aid compatible with the State aid, such as its windfall profit for greater tax collection of CO2 auctions. No one in your right mind, Your Honor, will invest in plates at current prices.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u33	Mr. Capdevila, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u34	It says eight here.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u35	It's been eight, yes; fifteen at the moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u36	Too bad! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u38	Thank you, President. Vice-President Ribera, ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree that we are now subject to the approval of this House is very important; I would dare say that it is historic. For you to see that I'm not exaggerating, I'd like to start with a historical anecdote. No less than Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, who, at the beginning of the transition, meets one day the Council of Ministers of Adolfo Suárez to study the energy plan to be approved by the Government. Suddenly, a minister warns that the authors of the document, the authors of the plan, had been forgotten to remove the logo - the logo of Unesa, the lobby of the electric oligopoly that is now called Aelec -. Fernández Ordóñez does not tell what happened next, but we can all imagine it: they simply removed the logo, which would have been very ugly in the BOE, and approved the plan as drafted by the electrics. The problem is that this anecdote is not really an anecdote, but quite the contrary, because it is clear that this same operation has been repeated throughout our entire democracy. With the rotating doors pouring smoke between the councils of ministers and the oligopoly, it would have to be very innocent not to see also the Unesa logo in the evil so-called liberalization of the electric market, in the privatization of Endesa, in the robbery to full hands of the Castor project or in the sun tax of the PP. That is why this royal decree-law is historic, because it is very possibly one of the first in democracy, and certainly the bravest, that does not carry the electric oligopoly logo. It is enough to see the rabid statements of the President of Iberdrola, Mr Sánchez Galán, to understand that this is true. This royal decree does not bear the logo of oligopoly, and I want to recognize it, Vice President Ribera. I think it is no coincidence that the first time this happens is with the first coalition government; I think it is no coincidence. I also think it is obvious that the measures that have been adopted are very similar to those proposed by my political formation and we were told that they were impossible because they supposedly contravened European legislation. But there is well what ends well, and I want to acknowledge that this royal decree-law contains courageous measures. The most important, in our view, is a drastic reduction in the fallen benefits of heaven. For people to understand: the current design of the electricity market, the so-called marginalist by the experts, is quite similar to a scam. In this market the different plants offer energy at different prices to cover the country's demand, and the trick is that in the end all the plants receive the most expensive price, regardless of their cost of production. For example, if producing a megawatt/hydro hour costs between 3 and 8 euros, when the megawatt/hour of the gas plants is 200 euros, the hydroelectric plants receive an overpayment of more than 2500 %. More than 2500 %. This is what is called fallen benefits from heaven, for obvious reasons, and it's very similar to stealing. Well, in this royal decree-law of the coalition government, 90% of those fallen profits from the electric sky are withdrawn and all this cut-off is intended to lower the bill for light. Should additional measures be taken? We think that a cost audit should be carried out, because oligopoly is very opaque. We also argue that Spain must have a public energy company. Of course, we must protect the most humble families, improving the social bonus, we must be very attentive to the evolution of the bill in case we have to take more measures and, above all, we think that the reduction of the fallen benefits of the sky adopted in this royal decree-law should not be temporary, but should be permanent. But I want to be very clear, this royal decree-law is brave and it's a royal decree-law that we have to defend. That is why I want to end by asking you, Vice-President Rivera, not to give in to the pressures of oligopoly, whether these direct or by interposed parties, not to give in to blackmail. I don't know what you talked to Mr. Sanchez Galán about yesterday. I guess it won't be easy to talk to a guy who hires Villarejo for his shady business and earns a million euros a month; I guess a guy like that is used to giving orders. What I do know is that behind the coalition government there are almost ten million Spaniards and we are only given orders by the people through the vote. [[Applauds]] That is why, from here, from the seat of popular sovereignty, I want to tell Mr Sánchez Galán and anyone who wants to listen to me that, while the seats of the United We can be decisive, never again will a real decree-law of the Government of Spain carry the logo of the electric oligopoly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Legal security is going to be the driving force, more or less, of this intervention, because legal security is an essential element in every society, especially in Western societies, which basically live not from our natural resources and so on, but from the legal security that our markets provide. Legal certainty is greatly violated by many actions of politicians, among others, this royal decree, but also by other actions; for example, when a politician who is sentenced to a final sentence with disqualification for passive suffrage is stuck to his seat and does not abandon it. [[Applauds]] This subverts the legal certainty of Spain, because it seems that judicial judgments do not affect the Legislative Power; this subverts legal certainty, like other issues, such as this royal decree. Before we get to the point, it is important that we all understand how the Spanish energy market, which is a very complex market, is a market that has been changing for a long time. Basically, all energy producers and suppliers are remunerated according to the price of the last kilowatt that enters the auction that is produced, which is the most expensive kilowatt; that is, all the energies produced with the cheapest technologies receive the remuneration of the mask. It seems that Mr Echenique, despite his studies in physical sciences, does not understand the market very well, but this at the time made a great deal of sense. Why? Because it was a way to encourage the efficiency of the energy system. If we get all the energies to be as cheap as possible to try to get the maximum benefit, the system will become more efficient every time. That made sense, but the system has changed and it's obvious that it's got us into some kind of mousetrap from which it's very difficult to get out. It is a system which has been imposed on Spain; it has been imposed by the European Commission, by the way, by those mandarins which no one has chosen, which no one has voted for and which, much less, no one here can control. Those are the ones who have imposed this system on us, and the Government, instead of defending Spain, instead of defending the interests of the Spanish, in short, what it does is to pray, to be submissive to these Mandarins. This system has another positive aspect, which is the possibility of creating long-term contracts. As there are energies that get a pay far above cost, they can afford to sell at lower prices in the long term than the selling price would be. These long-term contracts are going to be broken, basically, by this royal decree that you want to pass. Mr Baldoví - I see you are not here -, the community of regents in Valencia, for example, will be particularly affected. Our farmers are going to be affected by this royal decree, they are going to be harmed. It is important that we understand that, within this marginalist market, the latest technology that enters, the one that sets the price, today is gas. The electricity generated by gas accounts for approximately 13% of the energy consumed in Spain, and this is the one that sets the price, I repeat, this is the one that sets the price, which is the highest. And we will ask ourselves: Why does the gas come to have these prices so high? It is relatively simple: because gas is internationally at the highest prices in its history. This occurs for a number of reasons. The gas that comes by pipeline to Spain comes from Algeria and Morocco, countries with which, unfortunately, we have harmful diplomatic relations, because of you, Minister. This increases the gas; this increases the energy of all Spaniards. Socialist voters, please come to their representatives for explanations. [[Applauds]] Why else is electricity in these high prices? For the costs of CO2. Madam Minister, in a very high proportion, the cost of gas energy comes from the cost of CO2. It is the European Commission that decides how much CO2 can emit Spain, and you, gentlemen of the government, instead of assigning that CO2 to those who really need to use it in their inputs for energy production, take it out to auction, take it out to a surreal auction in which all market speculators can choose to buy CO2. Madam Minister, you have built - and you, gentlemen of the PP, as well, because you have collaborated in the creation of this mousetrap that has trapped Spain - a system in which, basically, speculators are who determine the price of CO2 and who in turn determine the price of light that the Spaniards end up paying. And again you, Minister, instead of protesting in Europe, instead of saying that Spain needs more allowances or that Spain needs to allocate allowances or that we need to facilitate the mechanism for allowances, are more climatic than anyone else, more climate religion than anyone else, more dogmatic than anyone else. And who pays that bill? Spanish energy consumers, who, by chance, have an absolute identity with tax-binding people, because everyone in Spain is forced by nostrils to consume electricity. [[applause]] You speak, Mr. Echenique speaks of oligopoly. It is clear that the electrics are no angels - of course, they are sharks who are stuck in this fish tank and that if they can eat the small fish, they eat it - but who is getting the most benefits out of this whole system, out of this entire mousetrap, is the Government. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, in 2020 the government raised some €9 billion in taxes on the electricity system, while the electricity sector received a profit of about €6 billion. It's just that the government gets more benefit than the electrics from all this! The government with its taxes, which you of a pen could eliminate. We already have two administrative costs that you, Minister, could decide to eliminate, which are CO2 and taxes, and you prefer to stand idly by. The concrete situation is that you are trying to create a new tax, a new tax concept - call it what you want - that will basically charge those energy producers who do not consume gas the proportional part that they would have had to pay if they had consumed gas. So, you charge taxes, you charge CO2 emission allowances and now you come and charge those energy producers that don't consume gas. [[Applauds]] You've squared the circle! The fiscal sadism in which you are involved is superlative. [[Applauds]] You come and raise this rule in the form of a royal decree-law, as if there was an extraordinary and urgent need. Minister, we saw this coming in January. With the Filomena storm we arrived at record prices of light and thinness, and you stood idly by. You have been reminded that the Climate Change Act obliges you to change the electricity system since May, since May!, and you continue to stand idly by. That's right, his Socialist Party colleagues are already in the vice-presidential office of Iberdrola, and so they will follow the rotating doors; a former deputy of the Andalusian Council of Podemos is already on the Board of Directors of Navantia, etc. In the end, the beneficiaries here are politicians, not citizens, and that is legal insecurity. Just as Mr Rodríguez sits in his seat, this royal decree-law collaborates with legal uncertainty in Spain and harms all Spaniards, not only the electric ones, but especially the consumers. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u41	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u42	Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, ladies and gentlemen, stood up.- Some Members: Thank you! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs García Chavarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we endorse Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, by which the Government sets out measures to mitigate the effects of rising electricity prices on the pockets of all consumers. That Government could not stand up to a problem that threatened to make a dent in family economies, especially those facing greater difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, we really are debating here today whether we want consumers to have paid for their electricity bill at the end of this year the same as in 2018, that is, whether we want the impact of electricity prices on citizens' pockets to be the same or not in 2018. I sincerely believe that this objective should be shared by all the groups represented in this House. We also need to stop certain bad practices that we have been seeing from some electrics, such as the scandalous emptied of swamps to generate cheap energy, as has happened in my land, in Galicia, by the way, in the face of the total passivity of Mr Feijoo's Government. In this way, companies carry out a market intervention that increases their profits, paying for that cheaper energy the same price as for the more expensive energies. And you are going to allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to ask you a question: Do you think that acting to prevent such interference in the market does not really mean defending the free market, which you believe in? This royal decree is not a timely measure, it is part of this government's courageous and determined strategy to distribute the efforts of the electric bill and achieve a 30% reduction. Don't worry, Mr. Marshal, our gas reserves are in no danger. Do not misrepresent, Mr Mariscal, that you are very fond of alarming and disinforming. For your information, I must also tell you that we are dealing with the interconnection of the Gulf of Biscay, and there is already an agreement with France to approach that 15% of the European objective. [[Applauds]] This Congress will also have to express itself in the coming months on the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System and on the draft law on the remuneration of unissued CO2, but the rise in the price of energy, which, by the way, as you know, is a phenomenon shared throughout Europe, needs an urgent and immediate shock plan. We therefore vote today if the emergency measures, which include, inter alia, the reduction of the excise duty, the suspension until 2022 of the excise duty on electricity and the reduction of VAT until the end of the year to 10%, continue to apply, provided that the price of the megawatt/hour exceeds, as you know, EUR 45. And something very important, we are here to create the figure of the minimum vital supply, so that families who are going through economic difficulties do not see their supply cut by default for another six months. In short, it is a guarantee of supply for the most vulnerable. This royal decree-law also includes the return of part of the extraordinary benefits that electricians get from having an impact on costs that they really do not bear; it will be 26 billion euros that will be dedicated to reducing the bill of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, especially right-wing ladies and gentlemen, as the Vice-President said, exceptional moments require exceptional measures. Tell me which side you're going to be on. Are you going to be or continue to be with the big power companies or are you finally going to be with the families and the small and medium-sized companies? I ask you because so far, when you have had to position yourself, you have always done so on the electric side, but today, here, you finally have the opportunity, if you want, to rectify. If you vote against, you will once again be on the wrong side, you will once again be against the people, the people of this country and, therefore, you will again be against Spain. Hard months are approaching as far as energy consumption is concerned. What are you guys gonna do? Tell me. Are they going to take the side of the citizens of this country or are they going to follow the path of VOX and end up also denying until the 2030 Agenda? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u46	Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - quiet -, here we do not expect anything from you; you are only for demagogy and for patriotism of the pack, a manipulated patriotism and postin. [[applause]] Look, as Miguel Azaña said, no one has the right to monopolize patriotism or to say that their solutions are the best because they are patriotic, because it is necessary that in addition to patriotic they are right, and you, in your case, are not right in their patriotism or in their solutions. [[Applauds]] So I don't ask you for anything, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you allow me a piece of advice? Distances, distances you from these anti-system ideas. I am aware that when it was up to you to govern, you carried out the electrical reform, which is guilty in much of the situation that we are going through today. I remind you that it was you who approved strong cuts to the renewables, raised the receipt of light, raised taxes and created new ones, such as the sun tax. The sun tax was created by you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and it was you who privatized Endesa. [[Applauds]] The socialist governments held public participation in Endesa, it was you who privatized it and it was you who also refused to face energy poverty, which already threatened many families in difficulty in 2012. Look, that is precisely one of the measures that we are going to vote on today. So now they have, as I say, the opportunity to amend themselves and pass by to visualize themselves as what their right-wing competitor will never be: a state party. Put aside the confrontation and the crooked arguments and, above all, stop talking bad about Spain, please stop disinforming the Spaniards. I conclude by thanking the Vice-President for her courage and commitment by proposing these measures and telling her that she has our full support and cooperation in the absolute certainty that this Government and this parliamentary group are not going to profile themselves when it comes to defending the interests of the citizens of this country. After this royal decree more measures will come to fulfill our obligation to all, which is nothing but to put our work and effort at your service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u47	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u48	Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2021, OF 28 SEPTEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE PROTECTION OF EMPLOYMENT, ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE WORK MARKET. [[File number 130/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u50	We turn to the next item: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 of 28 September of urgent measures for the protection of employment, economic recovery and improvement of the labour market. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u51	Thank you. Good morning. I compare with you to outline the content and scope of Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 of 28 September, which constitutes a further extension of the exceptional mechanism of ERTE articulated by this Government during the pandemic. It is, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the sixth social agreement in defence of employment, signed hand in hand with the social agents of our country and the expression of a desire for dialogue and meeting that is not circumstantial, but is projected in each and every one of our decisions. It is not necessary to remind them of the exceptionality and urgency of this rule, nor of the fact that the protection deployed by the ERTEs in the acute phase of the pandemic remains necessary to continue to protect companies and workers in certain sectors and activities, as they have done so far. Let me remind you of some figures which, I sincerely believe, are very eloquent. The ERTEs, which are decisive in the rapid and intense recovery of activity and employment, have led to the fastest recovery in our history. Faced with the ten years and eleven months of the financial crisis, this time in fifteen months we have returned to levels of social security membership prior to the crisis. ERTEs have ruled out employment as an adjustment variable, avoided layoffs, business closures and permanent damage to the productive fabric. That's why recovery is faster now. In line with the European response, we have opted for an internal flexibility mechanism agreed between businesses and trade unions. At the harshest time of the crisis, in the phase of confinement, the ERTE protected more than 550,000 companies and 3,617,000 workers, a shared effort by trade unions, businesses, workers, the Government and this country. By April 2020, 24% of wage earners were covered by an ERTE, one in four. Today it barely reaches 1%. This is the measure of the success of the ERTEs. There are only 230,000 regulated people left, of whom one third have a partial suspension, that is, they are working part of their day. In this year and a half, almost three and a half million people have returned to work and have done so in keeping with all their rights. The ones that follow at ERTE are people who work in very localized activities, concentrated in tourism, hotels, air transport or travel agencies, who, as you know, have not yet regained full normality. Protecting people is not only a matter of social justice, we have also shown that it is the most efficient way to deal with a crisis. The evidence of these data that I have presented, ladies and gentlemen, shows us that the ERTE system has worked, which has the backing of reality, in the same way as another measure, such as the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, was validated this week by the Nobel Prize in Economics, scientifically demonstrating that such an increase does not result in more unemployment. The protection deployed by this royal decree takes into account all these figures and evidences and also acquires a new face, far from a health emergency that, with great collective effort, we are leaving behind. The ERTs that are defined here are new generation ERTs, a bridge that anticipates this structural and solid response to which we have committed ourselves to Europe, in which training will take on a decisive and transformative role. We are at the same time laying the foundations for a new business and work model that is already pushing us out of the crisis, but which will also arrive at a healthier socio-economic context, more respectful of the rights of working people. The proof that without cuts or austerity we were able to grow efficiently. The rules are composed of objective precepts, it is also, but there is an argumental, intangible and valuable element that underlies this whole articulated: tranquility, certainty, the effective response that comes from social dialogue to reach every home, every family, every company, the workers of our country. It would not have been possible without the help of the social partners, as I have already mentioned so many times, and it would not have been possible without the groups that have understood these measures and have accompanied the Government always in this House. Once again, as I say, I want to thank you for your high-mindedness and your involvement in the search for collective solutions. That same concern, that desire to give tranquillity and certainty is what has urged us in this royal decree to articulate protective measures for the working people, for the enterprises, for the autonomous people, also for those of the island of La Palma, affected by the emergency caused by the eruption of the volcano of Old Summit, but also for the whole of the Canary Islands, conscious as we are of its economic and labor singularity. I begin to detail briefly the main features of this royal decree. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 maintains the centrality of ERTE as a priority coverage system until 28 February next year. It is a period that leads to this calm that I have been talking about and that already leaves us at the door of the holiday period of Holy Week, an annual milestone, as you know, of the revival of tourism activity in our country and, in parallel, of economic activity and employment. The 31st of October is established as a transitional bridge date for the ERTE which until now were automatic renewal. Companies will therefore have the deadline this month to overcome those emergency ERTs born from the initial Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 and join this new modality that places training as a priority mechanism of sustainability in employment. The ETREs of impediment and limitation will remain linked to force majeure, with similar scope to those of the previous royal decrees, and the simplification of procedures for moving from an ETRE of impediment to one of limitation and vice versa is also maintained. I would like to dwell in particular on the formative nature of this new generation of ERTE, which aligns itself with the legislation of those countries that support companies from within, from their own capacity, to create confidence and also stability. This efficient and future-sized training is the cornerstone of this royal decree-law, because it is the gateway to social security exemptions that distinguish and recognize this corporate commitment. Thus, Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 has established mechanisms to encourage training by companies. It does so primarily by significantly increasing training credit, setting a significantly higher amount for small businesses, which are traditionally the furthest away from this mechanism. The exemptions are designed, in short, to encourage training without penalizing small businesses and trying to attract them to a system that has not so far attended. We are sensitive to this reality and we are aware of the need to integrate these small enterprises, which form the basis of the Spanish economy, into the training dynamics that are being generated. The training that allows for increased exemptions is therefore, as you know, both the subsidized and the subsidized. And he announced that on the latter the government will make special calls in the coming weeks for people working at ERTE. This royal decree maintains the already known limits and conditions that relate to corporate social responsibility. They are limits and conditions consistent with the high public investment involved in the application of the ERTE and which, as you know, oblige the maintenance of employment, establish the prohibition of the distribution of dividends, shape the need for fiscal transparency, determine the impossibility of performing overtime, prevent the practice of outsourcing or new hirings with identical professional categories to those existing in the companies. Of particular relevance is the extension of the popularly termed 'zero meter' that extends throughout the year 2022. Workers who receive a benefit during an ERTE will be able to keep intact their accumulated unemployment benefit throughout the next year. That is also conducive to peace of mind and certainty. The 70% guarantee of the regulatory base is also maintained; that is, we are not applying the previous legislation designed by the People's Party. They are measures that have proved essential during the pandemic and are now involved in the new recovery phase by generating that confidence in the future that is so necessary for life and for our projects. To this same end, in the present royal decree-law the same benefits are maintained in the provision of cessation of activity of the autonomous persons, who during the pandemic, as you know, have allowed the professionals and small entrepreneurs to survive their projects. We thus set the necessary adaptations to effectively accompany the autonomous people in the return to their activity and in the reconfiguration of their business initiatives. It was also essential to maintain special coverage for discontinuous fixed persons engaged in regular fixed work. It is also necessary to maintain the special unemployment coverage of artists from all over the world of culture, of those who carry out their activities in the performing arts and public shows, which also extends until 28 February 2022. I would also like to point out this Government's commitment to the structural and future improvement of the living and working conditions of these groups. For this reason, as you know, the elaboration of the artist's status is progressing at a good pace and so the fixed discontinuous, rights and guarantees will be an essential part of the modernization of our labour relations system, as is being proposed at the Social Dialogue Bureau, which, as you know, held a new meeting yesterday. I would also like to highlight the extension of the Care Plan until next 28 February in this Royal Decree-Law. The maintenance of this plan, which reinforces the right to adapt work to people, has a very special meaning. We hope that care will play a central and structural role in the business dynamics of the future, as will ERTE itself. I would like to conclude by making special reference to the measures taken in this Royal Decree-Law to address the exceptional situation of La Palma's enterprises, workers and self-employed persons. It is a specific ARTE that contemplates the emergency situation caused by the volcanic eruption of Cumbre Vieja and that also values the labour and economic singularity of the Canarian community. We will accompany palm trees and palm trees with everything in our hand as long as necessary, despite the fact that there is a first deadline until 28 February. In fact, a total of sixty-five companies in La Palma have already hosted these specific ERTEs, currently protecting 514 workers. We are aware of the impact that this situation will unfortunately have on all businesses, the economy and work on the island. We have also just approved the extraordinary employment plan for the island of La Palma, which amounts to EUR 63 million. It is a whole coverage that will be adapted at all times and immediately, as the present royal decree-law does, to the evolution of the situation. I have already asked your ladies and gentlemen to validate this royal decree-law which extends the ERTE until 28 February 2022 and which places the formation at the epicenter of our effective response to the recovery process that we are now facing as a country. I am talking to you about training throughout the life cycle, which is solid and adapts to change and which involves companies daily in the response to crises and transformations. I am talking about investing in scientific and technical innovation, in expert knowledge, and in the end, in qualification. All of this must be among our priorities. I speak to them of social equality, of strengthening the link of all working people, and especially of our youth, with the welfare state, with measures such as those that include this royal decree-law, whose title is clear in its objectives: the protection of employment, economic recovery and the improvement of the labour market. I am speaking to you, as I said at the beginning of my speech, about calm and certainties, which are so necessary at the moment. I speak to you about what Hannah Arendt taught us, the right to have rights; this is democracy. And I ask you, with your vote, to support this new step towards a recovery that must be fair in order for rules like this to be a decisive lever. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Second Vice President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. A series of measures are being extended to contain and alleviate the occupational calamity that the coronavirus pandemic has impacted on hundreds of thousands of workers and their businesses. The problem is not the measures themselves, because in fact the validation of previous regulations was made virtually without votes against, which shows the sensitivity of Congress or the height of view, which you said, to an emergency situation that affects hundreds of thousands of workers and their families. However, one of the problems with these protection measures is that, once again, within the Council of Ministers, they have had to adopt and implement them. It should be recalled that there were inexplicable ministerial talks in the face of meetings within what has been called the social dialogue, i.e. the talks between the Executive and the social actors to conclude agreements in the situation of extreme labor emergency resulting from this year and a half of COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, tensions, frictions and feuds between colleagues in the blue bank to take measures to protect workers and businesses do not seem to be the best environment to deal with a very large labour crisis, which has not yet been completed and which adds to the precariousness of the labour market in Spain, a market which has population sectors, as in the case of young people, to which you referred, with 40% unemployment - the highest unemployment figure in the whole of the European Union - and which will have greater difficulty, if any, in accessing stable and decently remunerated employment if the pension reform as proposed is approved, particularly in terms of extending the retirement age and penalising early retirement. [[The Lord]] I will support with my vote the measures of this royal decree-law. I have no doubt that the majority of Congress will do the same, but it would be advisable for everyone in the blue bank to remain in the same direction and make job creation the high priority of this legislature. For now, it's not going well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u54	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u55	Good morning. Thank you very much. Madam Minister, it is not pleasant to intervene to validate decree-laws like this, which seeks to extend measures to protect those who are in an extremely serious situation, but at least we see with satisfaction the agreement between the government, the unions and the employer, which is always to be thanked, especially in these times when it seems so difficult to reach political agreements. The truth is that this extension of the ERTE is a mandatory measure; therefore, we welcome you. But we particularly welcome the extraordinary measures that have been taken with the island of La Palma, with which there is little solidarity. We are aware that these measures are not the end. We do not know how long they will have to last, because in the face of these geological phenomena so unpredictable in their birth and duration it is not possible to take definitive measures to recover the economy, because the personal, unfortunately, has no remedy anymore. Moreover, in general, I am talking about all palm trees, because this will affect the whole island and, unfortunately, we will have to wait for the phenomenon to fade and pray that it will not happen again in many centuries. At least in this case we are seeing that all the institutions and all the citizens of all the Spanish regions are like a pineapple with palm trees, with the Canary Islands in general. I've always said that the Canary Islands are the best people I've ever met in my life. I was lucky enough to start working in the Canary Islands and it hurts me that it is precisely one of the most disadvantaged regions in terms of income. Returning to the ERTE issue, in addition to wishing to see it done as soon as possible for businesses and self-employed people, it is to be hoped that they will not be an alibi for some of them to use them for their benefit, because that always ends up harming everyone. It is costing a lot of money and, therefore, it is to be hoped that it will end as soon as possible. I hope that all institutions will be able to ensure that this does not happen. We will vote in favour of the validation of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We too will vote in favour of this decree, as we have done with all those who have come with the consensus of the social partners. Indeed, the ERTE have served to alleviate, cushion the destruction of employment and the social agreement, which is very important, has been sought. Having said that, I sometimes hear with concern some speeches by the Spanish Government, perhaps too optimistic about employment. I think we need to put things in place. Spain has 40% youth unemployment; I repeat, 40%. We are the country with the greatest youth unemployment in the European Union; 495 000 young people in our country do not study or work. Today there are 3.5 million unemployed in Spain - this is a drama - and 2 million of those unemployed are women, and we have a government whose actions are taking place is to give a check to young people so that they can buy video games, a totally cuckoo check from the electoral point of view. Young people don't want a bonus to buy video games, they want a salary to buy video games, go to the theater or do whatever they want. A decent job is what the Government has to offer young people. And the same goes for women. Look, in the last year, in this country, 27,600 men have found employment while 203,400 women have lost it. So, I wonder, why is he serving a ministry like that of Equality? It is clear that it is not giving women opportunities in the workplace, which is why it should be, among other things, a ministry such as the Ministry of Equality. For the time being, the ones you're putting on are the convicted or the accused United Podemos. For that yes, for that it is serving as a placement agency. [[Applauds]] Because it seems that the motto of Unity We can now be 'united we can place ourselves', 'united we can mock the system'. Because you came here to storm the skies, but you were very quiet when you stormed the chair. Of course, they should not be the basis of policies, cheques or placements, but rather quality employment and real opportunities for young people and women, who are especially vulnerable in terms of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group of Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u59	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, I would end your speech by calling for a vote in favour of this royal decree. We will support it, we have already done so with all the royal decrees. We have analysed it in order to learn more about the variations or updates that were made, as a result of the experience of implementation of the previous royal decrees and the very evolution of the labour market in relation to this phase that we are now going through some overcoming of the phase of the COVID, and we will vote for it because, in the end, it maintains the backbone of what was this Government's commitment to sustaining employment and sustaining the purchasing capacity of the people and workers affected by the COVID. That is to say, we agree with the exemptions from social security contributions, which must also be said here that it is not very chaste or chavista to support companies so that they have to spend less of their own money because they are exempt from social security payments, but, well, it seems to us that in any case it can be reasonable for them to maintain the pulse of their industries. We agree that the unemployment benefit period does not end - that is, that this exceptional period does not lead to the loss of the right to unemployment benefit for hundreds of thousands of people - and we agree on the payment by the ERTE State. That is to say, that the State, with the resources of everyone - I hope that with a better and more effective distribution of wealth, I will not deny it either - will be able to distribute it to people who are experiencing greater situations of difficulty. Already reading the decree in question - since this has remained unalterable as a backbone throughout all the decrees - we have seen in the drafting, justification, explanation or memory - as they wish to call it - of this decree a phrase that shows a high level of harmony between our vision and that which remains there, and it is that which has to do with what it says, and it is literal, that the health, social and economic situation still threatens to give rise to very serious consequences. We think it is right that this point of realism should be introduced, because there are those who believe that here what is already waiting for us is unlimited growth and the return to the path of unbridled consumerism, but it is no less true that the threats are there and that economic recovery is already threatening to be much slower than the government's forecast, and because inflation - we have talked about electricity before; something could count them, with its price rise, on what inflation entails - it also threatens people's pockets and makes many of the aids or increases that can be proposed remain at a much lower level of efficiency than thought, because inflation does not stop growing and, therefore, also the cost of living. But then there are some other issues with which we have doubts or we do not agree at all. We believe that in these matters we must flee from triumphalism, and the same thing I have already pointed out to you that the previous quotation seems realistic and that we agree, I cannot help pointing out that the next quotation that I am going to transfer to you does not give rise to the same level of agreement as I have previously mentioned. It is said that there is agreement on the effectiveness of the measures implemented to date to prevent such damage. That damage has been avoided is unquestionable, but that all damage or such damage has been avoided is not true. I mean, there are people who were having a bad time and there are people who are now having a worse time, and it's not a particular perception lacking any rigor or sociological analysis, it's what Caritas's latest report says, which reveals that people in an exclusion situation, that people at risk of exclusion have increased by almost a million since before the COVID until now. Then, despite the social shield, despite state aid, we have a serious problem, because there are almost 6 million people who are in a situation of social exclusion, and that means they have no right or no chance of developing a decent life project. It seems good to us, as far as the updates are concerned, that the possibility of new ERTE is open, it seems good to us that the benefits to companies are made possible for those who carry out training actions linked to ERTE itself and even that they can count on more credit to finance training; it does not seem, as I said before, that this is to mistreat entrepreneurs, I suppose they will not talk about this or blackmail the government. We also believe that it is appropriate to talk about the MeNuda Plan, which rarely occupies space; to talk about aid to artists, or - and in this case with a much more exceptional character for what palm trees and palm trees are suffering - to welcome within this decree the possibility of an exceptional aid line for palm trees and palm trees, for which all our solidarity goes in the name of the Basque sovereignist left. However, we believe that in the desire to exempt social security contributions that has always been put in place by the Government or the ministry that you are carrying forward, there has also been a trap, not yours, a trap of certain employers, and it is not a subjective issue, it is an objective issue as far as the courts are concerned. It is not worth saying here that the courts are infallible to zaherir or attack some member of the government parties and then say that they may not be very effective when, for example, they feel that in the ERTE that was made against the workforce of PCB-ITP workers in Barakaldo and Sestao was an unjustified ERTE. And it seems that to save some money the entrepreneurs decided to do this kind of thing. Or, for example, when the National Court ruled that the ERT that was made against ArcelorMittal was not only unwarranted, but that it almost bludgeoned, if not fully entered, the law fraud. I therefore believe that we must be careful here too, because from a good initiative such as the one I have pointed out, we can also benefit practices that are certainly not positive, but rather harmful. We still have some doubts or differences in terms of aid to self-employed people, we still do not understand 75% as a limit. The SMI is now established as a reference factor. It is true that the SMI is EUR 950, but it is no less true that 75% of that is EUR 712.50 and that someone who earns EUR 715 a month would be deprived of the aid and I do not know how far he could face a reality that, surely, with that money will be quite difficult. We agree that minimum living income is clearly included in this decree. There is an urgent need for correction. We agree with that reading, but we also believe that what is being proposed will be insufficient. Finally, we are talking about SEPE and labour inspections. With regard to SEPE, I believe that much more needs to be done. To ask for an appointment at SEPE, Lanbide or Nafar Lansare - to bring it to our case - is more difficult than to get out successfully and well stopped from Jumanji today, and that is something they would have to try to avoid. And with the Labour Inspectorate we ask them what we have done on many occasions, that they provide resources to the Labour Inspectorate and that there be more labour inspectors, because if there were more labour inspectors and at the same time - they will understand that - the labour reform was abolished, they would not have had to, for example, carry out a struggle of more than seven months the workers of Tubacex, that fortunately and, above all, thanks to their work, not to the gifts of anyone but to their effort and their struggle, because sometimes to strike is worth it, because sometimes to fight is worth it, they have managed to restore their labour rights, which were also undermined by taking advantage of a situation of exceptionality, such as that of the COVID, and the exceptionality that it itself generated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u61	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of this royal decree-law, if we had to summarise it, we would say: given the persistence of the effects of the situation of COVID, given also the situation of agreement in the Bureau of Social Dialogue, we transfer to order the present precepts... By saying so, it seems like an axiom of other times. But, after all, what we are doing is responding to certain social demands, but also to the needs and concerns that arise as a result of an extraordinary situation, and I say this now and will end with it. This royal decree-law, in application of the 6th Agreement in Defense of Employment of the Bureau of Social Dialogue, transfers, more or less, these issues. You have summarized it, Minister, and I will give you a summary of your summary. It contemplates the extension of the ERTE in two stages: until 31 October of those that were in force on 21 September, and from there until 28 February with new conditions: exemptions in the contribution to Social Security which in this case is linked to an action not so new as necessary, tremendously necessary, which is the connection to the training field; second, other complementary contents that also came in other royal decrees-laws, but which are, I believe, weighted and necessary, as are those related to the division of dividends, fiscal transparency, the safeguarding of employment, the realization of overtime or the prohibition of new contracts or outsourcings, to which the Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 referred, one of the precedent, or some measures of the labor field of 3/2021, and the extension of unemployment benefits contained in the Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 and its form of calculation for the workers affected by ERTE extended in this royal decree-law. It also has another area, namely the protection of the self-employed. There the motion of the People's Party on self-employed persons referred to it - I do not know if it had the opportunity to listen to it -: it envisaged an attempt to assimilate the measures envisaged with regard to the group of workers and undertakings also in the field of self-employed and self-employed workers, entrepreneurs, in the form of exemptions from contributions on the basis of cessation of activity, extraordinary unemployment benefit also for seasonal self-employed workers or benefits compatible with self-employment or other benefits of an exceptional nature, such as workers in the artistic field, etc. Moreover, and in a novel way, unfortunately, it also contemplates a replica of the measures contained in other royal decrees-laws for those affected by the eruption of the volcano on the island of La Palma. With regard to this initiative, few things need to be commented upon that have not already been said in previous royal decrees. I will say that this, as on previous occasions, probably has measures that are somewhat uncertain or insufficient in some cases, especially because they do not contemplate from the beginning a clearer temporal horizon. I've been repeating it since the beginning of all these royal decree-laws. We thought that this should have a clearer time horizon precisely to provide security, to provide greater certainty, and therefore the possibility of taking decisions in a more appropriate way, to the recipients of these aids. They are managed with a horse's fingernail and, therefore, with all the mistakes caused by urgency, but also - and I want to highlight it - with the wisdom and tremendous effort of many public servants who have striven to do things right; not only well, as they usually do, but much better and with greater effort. Also, and that is another criticism, concerning the mismanagement - for me - from the point of view of the Toledo Pact, in which you and I have participated, of the calculation of those aids, which are not clear. It is not pointed out, it is not determined what is the formula in which the social security system and the pension system will be able to be rewarded, to say the least, for taking on these things. In conclusion, I would say that it is a necessary but also fair and balanced package of measures. And today, unfortunately, it turns out that we have no choice but to extend it also to a much more differentiated and unforeseen area, which is that of the island of La Palma, to the victims or to those affected by the eruption of the volcano on the island of La Palma. That is precisely what I want to think about, and it is that we have to think about the need to establish emergency response mechanisms. Losing health, work, walking freedom, your whole life, as happens in the case of many palm trees and palm trees, but also in the case of many small self-employed and entrepreneurs, deserves to have a collective response prepared. I wish this was the last time, but I think we are all aware that at some point there will be some unforeseen situation and, in such a case, or rather, for such cases, it is our responsibility to have contingency plans, response measures, urgent aid, etc., prepared, at least in part, because solidarity is the value that this and any collective response should be characterized. A few days ago, Minister, I heard in a very interesting forum, also very collective and very particular but appropriate, a phrase that said so: Solidarity flourishes when there is little. I thought the sentence was beautiful. Let us add something from the public sphere: May solidarity always flourish, even more so when much is missing. And with the pandemic and in La Palma, many people are far short of it. We shall vote in favour of this royal decree, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President. Go ahead that Citizens have supported all the real decrees of extension of the ERTE. Moreover, thanks to our efforts, our efforts and our negotiations, we managed to untie the ERTEs from the states of alarm and, therefore, have been able to extend until today. In all these extensions of the real decrees of the ERTE we criticize that they were always lame, that they lacked measures to be complete because, despite being a temporary mechanism that avoided the destruction of employment in companies or sectors that suffered some temporary stop, if they were not accompanied by other measures, they could end up perpetuating the ERTE and creating enterprises and zombie workers. We then asked - I don't know if you will remember - that the ERTE were evolving to a ERT for conversion, so that we could avoid situations in which workers could be seen outside the labour market, those ERTE with training that we see today embodied in this Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 and we see it with good eyes because, as you have pointed out, they introduce incentives for the training of workers. We continue to think in my parliamentary group that if we do it right, all together, we have an opportunity with this mechanism to avoid the destruction of jobs, but also to increase the productivity of our workers. This Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 also talks about aid to the self-employed, which we support, as it cannot be otherwise, but we continue to insist that they remain short, and the same must be said about aid to La Palma. How can we not support, in the face of this natural disaster, that this Government, on the part of all society, should make a decisive effort and help to do all it needs, and we, Citizens, will always be there to support it. But we don't all like this royal decree, Vice President. I want to denounce again in this rostrum the ways in which you work. We meet again with another royal decree-law approved on the edge of the expiration of the previous deadline, keeping companies and workers alive and creating tremendous legal insecurity, because their way of working, to which you have us used, not only increases the anguish of companies and workers, which is the most serious, but also produces, let us say, a legislative jam in the General Courts of difficult justification. It was understandable the improvisation, the patches, the doubts at the beginning of the pandemic, when no one knew how the situation was going to develop and no one had the Fierarás pocima, but today its forms, the way of working only speaks of cowardice, of the carelessness of a government that does not think beyond a short-term project and not in the medium or long-term. Taking as an example those ways of working, it is not a thing of receipt that has been included in this Royal Decree-Law 18/2021, which is the modification of the conditions of access to minimum living income, not by the content itself of the amendment, but because you know perfectly well that right now this draft law on minimum living income is being processed in Congress, in which this and other issues are being debated and negotiated between the various groups. It was as easy as putting this amendment through amendment in this legislative process of minimum vital income as passing the government roller, by royal decree, over this House and its legislative work. But do you know what's going on? I will repeat again, that you abuse the royal decree without justification in many cases, that you steal Parliament's right to participate in the legislative process, that you use the deadlines to negotiate as a bold weapon, to present the tragala to this House; you come now, at the last minute, and you say: it is this or chaos. [[applause]] Look, Parliament has an obligation to legislate, to propose improvements, to be the voice of all the Spaniards represented here, but with you it is impossible. You continue, again and again, putting at risk the separation of powers and the rule of law. Show respect for the legislative procedure. Let all groups contribute, in order to achieve laws that we adopt among all and are the best possible. Why do you continue to extend deadlines without any motivation? The last time was this week with the extension of 17 legislative projects, which are paralysed in this House for no reason and without anyone asking for it. You have - I insist - the Chamber blocked when some want to work. And since you have brought Hannah Arendt here to remind us that democracy is the right to have rights, I remind you that the right of these Members is to have the right to participate in the legislative process and to work. Stop blocking us, because that is also democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u65	Good morning, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The validation of the royal decree-law and ERTE measures would be the holder in which we are, and you were also talking, Madam Vice-President, about the question of the minimum wage. I am interested in mentioning this issue of the minimum wage, because it is true, we have all thought in life that we should raise it and reach more European standards on the issue of the minimum wage. The big question in this context is whether this is the best time to make this rise in the minimum wage, because, in the midst of this situation in which we are extending the ERTE because we come to the conclusion that people cannot work yet, a question that we should ask ourselves is whether this is the best time to raise the minimum wage, because in the end it ends up rising fifteen euros, which is a symbolic amount more expensive to the extent that it is taken than to large projects or demands to match the minimum wage to European standards. You pointed out - and I cannot stop asking you that too - that a Nobel Prize in Economics has validated this issue, but, of course, we are going to put things a little bit. It is a Nobel Prize in Economics, but it does so on the basis of a 1992 study in New Jersey; instead, in 2019 we have an analysis from the Banco de España that says that in 2019 the rise of the minimum wage means the loss of 170,000 jobs. Therefore, it is good to say that the rise is supported by the thesis of a Nobel Prize, but it would still be better to say that the analyses of the Banco de España with the same method reach a different conclusion in the case of Spain and not in the case of New Jersey. That is why we in this matter ask you for a full picture. It's a complex issue. When you raise the minimum wage, you have collateral derivatives: the Fogasa benefits also rise because they are linked to the minimum wage; the special work centres suffer, because with the rise of the minimum wage in the special work centres, which do not perform productive work, there are additional costs that at the moment have no response from the Administration; these increases in the minimum wage put at risk the costs of the special work centres. And also, small and medium-sized enterprises point out that this puts jobs at risk and increases the submerged economy. We therefore agree on the subject of minimum wage that a long-term strategy must be drawn up, but that it certainly needs a more complete picture and more in-depth analysis. With regard to the royal decree law, you also pointed out that we renewed this measure until February 28, 2022 and I pointed out that this is almost two years after the pandemic began. If one analyses the six agreements and the two years that have passed, it turns out that every six months we are reviewing the measures of the ERTs and the extensions. I have told you many times - and you know it and I tell you with the utmost affection and respect - that we are always playing the last minute, from patch to patch, on this issue of ERTE and that this has more structural than circumstantial. It was also pointed out earlier that this is always solved through the royal decree-law. When I was at the university, they explained that the Royal Decree-Law was the measure by which the Government could make legal regulations with the rank of law in cases of extraordinary and urgent need. Here the extraordinary and urgent need is because we are running out of time, not because we don't know what's going on. We know what the scenario is: that the economy has not just started, that companies need this instrument, but the extraordinary and urgent need we generate when this measure is renewed one month before it wins. And I have to tell you that I do not agree that this generates tranquility and certainty. All economic operators, companies, workers, even professionals - managers, economists, lawyers - are awaiting what renewal will be, what the renewal will be, and in a month they will have to adapt to the new government rule, which, as always, implies the extension of the deadline, but there are also always improvements, changes, different mechanisms in each of these cases. Therefore, I agree that the instrument is valid, the instrument has saved many jobs, but I do not agree that it generates this tranquility and certainty when we go to royal decree-law every six months and when every royal decree-law includes new measures to be taken into account by all professionals linked to the world of work. There are some unresolved issues in these two years. The Plan Take care of me. One can take advantage of the Plan Me Care and reduce the day, but it automatically involves the reduction of salary. At the beginning of the pandemic we were talking about what solution we could give for when the children are confined, with a benefit like a discharge, but in two years of pandemic, in two years of ERTE, this benefit has not come to light. As far as the retention clause is concerned, we sincerely believe that the penalties in the area of job maintenance are disproportionate. It is a necessary clause, it is an instrument that has to exist to guarantee jobs, but it is true that a sanction such as the loss of contributions from the entire workforce we understand that it ends up being disproportionate and putting many small and medium-sized enterprises at risk. Finally, in the few minutes that I have left, so that it is recorded and so that the topic can be focused, the ERTEs are tied to another great figure, which is SEPE, and to previous quotes. Citizens suffer from major problems in the management of pre-dates. Getting a prior appointment in a public administration does not end up being the easiest thing for citizens; it does not end up being the easiest thing when it comes to SEPE, benefits or tax agency. The whole question of the public administration's attention to its administrators, to the citizens, I think it deserves a thorough review. There are problems to find a previous appointment or to be served by the telematics media or to be served in the same office. Today the rest of the activities continue to cater to people: businesses, establishments, shops, shops cater to people with the necessary mask and distance measures; this in the Public Administration seems to have disappeared, either you have a prior appointment or you cannot access a Public Administration. I sincerely believe that this has to be reviewed, because, although it is true that the previous appointment improves the management of time and planning, it is no solution when in the end it results in a stoppage that does not allow citizens access to public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u67	Good morning, President. Thank you, comrades and companions. In 2008, the price of oil, by the clouds and real estate rates blow up everything in the air. What do governments decide to do? To cut public spending, facilitate redundancy and give money to banks, an idea that proved magnificent to move from two million unemployed people to six million people and, along the way, thousands of broken businesses and hundreds of thousands of self-employed without seeing a hard to help. Fine work, yes, sir. [[Rumors]] Ten years later, many people have not yet raised the head of that social scavenge. By 2020, a virus plagues the entire planet causing almost total paralysis of world economies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u69	GDP collapses and recent experience tells us that when this happens millions of people go to unemployment. What does the government decide to do? To legislate a set of measures to protect working people, self-employed people and businesses. The data - I repeat that they are not opinions, they are data - show that today, contrary to what could be expected, the number of people with work is practically the same as at the beginning of the pandemic. Casuality, the work of the Holy Spirit? No, it simply shows that the measures worked and function - with all their shortcomings, of course - that the ERTE saved many people and many jobs and businesses and that the cessation of activity has helped thousands of self-employed people, who had never, ever received any kind of government assistance. That is why it is so important to vote. The difference between 2008 and 2020 is so great and the suffering avoided for many people is so much that they make voting worthwhile, it's free, it's fast and it's fifteen minutes every four years that can help change many things. With this I do not say that the measures are the panacea, that everyone is covered and that this is Alicia in the wonderland, obviously not, I am not blind and I know perfectly well that the situation on the street is very complicated, but to hide or demerge that for thousands of people these measures have meant relief and protection on the part of public policies, I think it would be unfair and dishonest. As I said earlier, this is not an opinion, it's data. Today we come here to extend some measures that work, to improve them and to expand them so that palm trees and palm trees have a small source of tranquility within hell that they are living, besides, a hell that is not known when it will end. Therefore, for the people affected on our beloved island of La Palma, access to the ERTEs is facilitated, to aid for the cessation of activity of the self-employed and also to the exemption of payment to Social Security, at least, until 28 February 2022. This extension and extension of protection measures also introduces training aids to improve the ability to find work for people who are still in ERTE today, who are approximately 200,000, and who come mainly from the services sector and the hospitality industry. Training is a sacred right of working people and, in addition, we believe it is good news for their future and for the country's economy in general. In short, those who vote against these measures today will be voting against the working people, against the viability of many companies and, more importantly, against the island of La Palma. Only hatred and sectarianism can lead someone to do something like that. The good news is that they are minorities because the vote of the citizenry constituted a parliamentary majority that allows for the adoption of measures such as this. We will continue to push and squeeze so that the institutions, all, do not forget neither the working people nor our neighbors and neighbors of La Palma for when the volcano ceases to be news, that one day will pass, and only the terrible consequences remain. That's what we were voted for, and that's why we're here. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up.-Applause from the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Vice-President, I see that you welcome the speech by Mr Rodríguez, Mr Alberto, whom I also congratulate on which I hope will be your last speech in this House, since the Supreme has communicated to the Presidency of this Congress the sentence which obliges you, Mr Rodríguez, to leave your seat. Although my speech may be of particular pleasure to you, I may prefer to leave the Chamber voluntarily before it is forced to do so, because I am confident that the Bureau of this House at its next sitting will take the appropriate steps to give effect to this sentence without trickery and traps. Although we already know that Podemos is the greatest threat to democracy in this country, I still trust that the Socialist Party will believe in the rule of law. I wish you the best, Mr Rodriguez, but outside this House. [[Applauds]] Minister, in April last year, at the very beginning of the crisis caused in Spain by the arrival of the Wuhan virus, you assumed an achievement that is very revealing of your political project. You boasted that you were the minister who shared more subsidies, subsidies and unemployment benefits in the history of democracy. He boasted of it without any disguise, proud, he did not hide that he was living his particular dream, very typical of communists, which is that of a dependent society, subsidized, poor, but, in your opinion, egalitarian. In fact, there were never more unemployed in Spain, more people forced to remain inactive in their homes, more self-employed without activity, more companies closed, and for the first time there were more people receiving a benefit than they did with their work, but that, as I have had occasion to say on some other occasions, far from being a merit, was a terrible failure, the worst possible government at the worst possible time. Pedro Sánchez starred in the worst health and economic management on the planet and the Spanish have paid him dearly, very dearly. To the deaths caused by the coronavirus, whose real figure we still do not know, to the - as the Constitutional Court has recognized - the greatest trample on the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards in democracy, was added the most devastating collapse of any economy in the West. Then you decreed the most severe confinement of the developed countries and we kept more than four and a half million jobs suspended, Spain produced one out of every three jobs destroyed in Europe and there was the destruction of more than 130 000 companies, more than any other country in our environment. From the outset, the VOX Parliamentary Group insisted on the need to articulate mechanisms that would provide greater liquidity and guarantee all employment to those who had been banned from working. Perhaps you remember, then what we said to you was: it would be pointless to remove water from a plant to water it once it is dry; what needs to be done is to prevent the plant from drying out. You refused and now, eighteen months after the arrival of the coronavirus in Spain, you bring to validate a royal decree-law with a further extension of those measures. It is already loud that these measures were not enough and, Minister, they are still not enough. Today we raise the bandage, but the wound is still there, we can't just cover it up again. You have preferred to settle in euphoria, but hiding reality never brings good results. Moreover, it is impossible to hold the lie in time. We were able to check it a few days ago at the press conference held after the publication of the unemployment and membership data. The Secretary of State for Labour was moving with great enthusiasm what for him was spectacular data, as never before in the history of our country, he came to say, but a few minutes later, just next door, just a meter away, another Secretary of State, on this occasion that of Social Security, muttered him: the return to the work of the employees at ERTE is already produced with drop-outs, he said. And it is that reality is imposed. Despite the creation of 226 000 public jobs since the arrival of the coronavirus, the private sector is languishing, more than 400 000 jobs are still lacking to recover effective employment before the crisis and, according to the latest data, only 18,000 businesses were destroyed in August, the vast majority of SMEs. According to the Banco de España, one out of every four is at risk of insolvency, but you are still committed to acting as if nothing happened. Not only do they not offer anything else, but they insist on driving our country through this ideological drift that brings only stagnation, unemployment and exclusion, with smile, with talent, with a soft tone, with all that, but you are sowing chaos and destroying Spain because the same government that approved these measures has dedicated itself to hindering recovery. [[Applauds]] It is the Government that has decreed the most extemporary measures and the most inopportune tax increases. The aim was to relieve those who created jobs, Minister, not to increase burdens. On the contrary, you pushed the only tax hikes in Europe, you did not leave a tax without going up, there you did not leave one behind and with it you have torpedoed the recovery. The Government has condemned Spanish companies to be the only ones in Europe without access to direct aid, and they did so for months, for a long time, because during that time Spain was the only country in Europe that had not approved them and, when at last, months later, they were announced, articulated so inefficiently that they still did not arrive. This Government has perpetrated a harmful economic policy, which has condemned our productive fabric at the worst possible time. Its energy policy destroys employment. They have caused the price of the highest light in our history, which impoverishes Spanish households and forces the electro-intensive to close their production lines. But you are also condemning the entire industry to ruin. Its measures in the automotive sector cause unemployment. Enrolment falls above 15%, but you go and present in the General Budgets of the State an increase in the enrollment tax and you remain in your senseless attack on diesel, Spain being the number one producer of such fuel tourism in Europe. As you are completely unaware of the functioning of the industry, it does not matter to you. They are not aware of how difficult it was to attract this industry to Spain, they are not aware of how difficult it is to retain it. They're not conscious because they're unconscious. Its agricultural policy condemns our farmers, farmers and fishermen. They have sold them to globalist interests and left at the stake the Spanish rural world with their myopia to detect the needs of the productive fabric, so typical of whom he has never worked, of whom he has never opened a trade, of whom he has never had to strive to find a customer. Madam Minister, this crisis required a historic determination to move in the right direction, but with its sectarianism they have endeavoured to push us in the opposite direction. If we don't fix it - and believe me we're going to fix it sooner than later -, which could have been limited to a liquidity problem arising from the economic stoppage by the pandemic can now become a structural solvency problem. Minister, a few days ago the deputy of VOX Rubén Manso recalled some words full of honesty that he was secretary of the Treasury with Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Henry Morgenthau, and said: we have tried to spend money, we have tried to spend more than we had ever spent and it has not worked; now we have exactly the same unemployment as at first and a huge debt to pay. I would like that, in view of the certain threat of high inflation and a rise in rates, we should not have to say the same in Spain, although I am afraid that, with the government of Pedro Sánchez installed in the lie, it lacks any honesty, also intellectual. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u72	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who speak to you are not inclined to believe in conspiracy theories, but believe me, Mrs Díaz, that I am a step away from believing that you, the party that supposedly leads and Pedro the Abucheado are conspiring day by day to impoverish this country more and more to levels of misery that do not remember even the greatest of our grandparents. Either you have a plan or you have no shame, or both at the same time, because, if not, you would not have been breaking your nerves again to the self-employed, to the businesses, to the workers at ERTE approving a new extension at the last minute, in the discount time. Again, Mrs Díaz, the sixth; the sixth agreement of the so-called social dialogue in favour of employment. And again he has caught the bull; that, to be you anti-taurinos, they live in a perpetual San Fermín. I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree, and we will do so because in this matter this House is being subjected to a kidnapping, in which you have taken as hostage the workers, the self-employed and the businesses, those who know that they have special value for Spain and for the People's Party and those who have no doubt that we are going to defend and we want to defend at any price, because their labour policy is a spur; and this speaker, as Europe tells us, has told us again this week by the International Monetary Fund and has also been told by bodies as prestigious as Caritas, which warns of the dramatic consequences of the terrible social policies of its government. His report literally says that it sees an unstoppable escape to a more unequal society and says that it is a phenomenon that is being facilitated by an incomplete and insufficient social protection system. Since the rule of Pedro Sánchez there are more than two and a half million people in social exclusion, eleven million in our country, and more than six million Spaniards live in severe exclusion, nearly two million more than three years ago. Your star measure has crashed, it's a failure. The minimum living income for those who need it most in households with severe poverty has only been granted to 26% of applicants. And you come with the mantra that you're not leaving anyone behind. Of course it's true, of course it's true that they're not going to leave anyone behind, because they're going to take them all, people and institutions, forward! You have changed, Minister, the stability framework that companies, the self-employed, the workers in this country today require for the picture frame with which you come here to bring us each agreement, because Yolanda Díaz is only concerned about Yolanda Díaz. And I'm afraid this is just the prologue; but I don't mean that prologue of that Communist Manifesto, which you so much like and your partners so much worry about. Your management, Mrs Díaz, is the prologue of new forms of misery, because, while you are creating jobs for four of your comrades convicted of criminals who are going to cost the public coffers 267,000 euros, the workers of this country ask themselves several questions. They wonder what their work will be about tomorrow; they wonder what it will be about them and their children tomorrow, when it's cold and they can't put the heat on because they can't afford the price of light, because that communist manual policy is putting fear of misery in Spanish families. I don't know if I think I'm overreacting, but you can tell more than four million people who want to work and can't work, or you can tell more than 1 300 000 Spaniards who are unemployed, are unemployed and no longer receiving any benefits. Since the beginning of the pandemic you have only been able to create public employment, 280,000 jobs, while there are about half a million private jobs in the air. And today I am not going to defend labour reform, because I could not defend it with as much passion as you have defended the labour reform of the People's Party. He has defended the EREs that have managed to save the job, and he has done so with a passion that he would not be able to match. Thank you, Mrs Díaz, for acknowledging today that the Labour Reform of the People's Party is good for Spain and good for employment. [[Applauds]] While you, Minister, are more concerned and busier to become the leader of the new version 2.0 of Podemos or a new platform called More Yolanda for example, in the last month 18291 companies have been destroyed, 6000 young people have gone to unemployment and we still have 240,000 workers in ERTE and 226 000 self-employed in cessation of activity. While France and Germany are already recovering levels of gross domestic product prior to the pandemic, Spain is following the line. Because you spend more time riding chicken to your government partners than looking for solutions so that companies don't have to stop because they can't pay the energy bill. And I'm sorry, minister, I'm sorry for the word chicken, which, after the one you've got tied up with Pollo Carvajal, I know it gives you cold sweats to listen to. But it is also giving the Spaniards cold sweats the month-to-month rise in the CPI or the increase in the price of electricity. Because you are talking about boosting a social lift, but with you investment in education in relation to GDP is below the OECD average. And now you intend to make up for it by giving a pay of 400 euros to the eighteen-year-olds, those very young people who live with their parents, to whom you raise taxes and the bill of light in more than a thousand euros, that is, first put your hand in the parents' portfolio, and then do electoral with the children, those young people that your Government is bringing to a future without opportunity. We are leaders, as has already been said in this rostrum, in youth unemployment and we are at the tail of youth emancipation. That is why I ask you to stop with so many frivolities and start working, because there are many things you could and should be doing, Mrs. Díaz. I recommend that you let yourself be less counseled by Mao's Red Book when it says that poverty drives the desire for change, for action, for revolution. Madam Minister, the Spaniards do not deserve you to push them into misery to fatten their ideology. But in the meantime, the People's Party is going to say no to you and yes to the workers of this country, who, despite you, are going to take your families and this country forward again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u74	Thank you. Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. Almost four million workers have been affected by an ERTE during this pandemic, more than one and a half million self-employed workers have been accommodated for the cessation of activity. These are not just figures, Your Honor, they are people, families that we all face, who have felt that in this crisis a government has finally - our government - stood on the side of those most in need for no one to stay behind; families and workers who have felt that on this occasion public money, the billions of euros invested have served as a social shield and containment dam to prevent the closure of businesses and the destruction of employment in certain activities, such as hospitality. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, while this government has built this social wall against inequality with bricks like ERTE, the cessation of activity benefit for the self-employed, the minimum living income, the ICOs, the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the Me Care Plan, the measures to contain the price of light and a long and so on; while we put bricks on that wall against inequality, you were throwing stones, without appreciating that you are not against the government, but you are throwing stones at the citizens who need these aids most. But I have to tell you that you look very small in front of that dam that this government has built, and very small to its leader, Mr. Casado, in front of our president of the government, Pedro Sánchez. Today we validate the Royal Decree-Law 18/2021, which contains the extension of extraordinary measures in relation to contribution and protection for unemployment, a further extension of the ERTE until 28 February 2022 - about 250,000 workers are pending the validation of this Royal Decree-Law - the extension of the cessation of activity for self-employed workers, and, of course, measures specifically directed at workers affected by the eruption of the volcano on the island of LaPalma. This time, instead of a pandemic, it has been an environmental catastrophe, but from the first minute this government has worked to cover the thousands of families, workers and businesses affected, and it is a real decree-law result, again, of the sixth social agreement in defense of employment with the employers' associations, CEOE and CEPYME, and the unions, UGT and Commissions, together with the Ministries of Labour and Inclusion. Throughout this October, the EERT mechanism will be extended on the same terms as in force until 30 September, and from 1 November to 28 February the new system of bonuses will be put in place, increased for companies offering training to their EERT workers, as the Minister has explained, bonuses that will go from 40% to 80% of the quota and that have been agreed with the social partners. It also creates tranquillity for workers, who know that they will keep their unemployment benefits intact. It is inevitable to analyse the two recent crises that we have had, the comparison between the two ways in which the Government can act to get out of them: its 2008 crisis of rescuing large banks, reducing redundancy, increasing unemployment, cutting unemployment benefits, freezing wages and pensions, and its 2008 crisis of rescuing people and businesses, putting resources at the service of citizens, raising wages, updating pensions under the CPI, vetoing redundancies. It is an objective fact that in this crisis in our country there have been lower levels of job destruction and increased unemployment than in previous crises, thanks to the increased protection of employment via ERTE. Paraphrased the minister, I will give you a figure, Mr Movellán: during 2009 the unemployment rate grew by 6.5 percentage points, while in 2020 it only rose by 2.3 percentage points, and currently employment levels are as before the crisis and we are recovering. ERTEs are a mechanism that has worked, and they know it. That is why it is not understood that there are groups that do not vote in favour. Do you not believe, gentlemen of VOX and the PP, that the best way to love Spain is to support the measures of the government, such as the validation of this royal decree-law, where the ERTEs are extended, which have served to save jobs and businesses? Don't you think it's better to be patriots working, as this government does, to make our country stronger out of this crisis, getting $140 billion to invest in the modernization of our country, legislating not to increase the inequalities that every crisis entails? That is the patriotism that we socialists understand, that of the struggle for equality and social justice. [[Applauds]] You take heart by the measures taken where you rule. In Andalusia, aid to self-employed people and SMEs has been left on wet paper. Of the 1109 million that the Board has received from the central Government, a historic aid never received, it has distributed 330 million and the deadline ends on 31 December. Many have to run, and I hope they do and put the batteries on, to run a hundred percent. Now, I have to admit to you that there is one thing that is good for you: to lower taxes to those who have the most. The Andalusians and Andalusians did not come out of our astonishment with the announcement of the President of the Board a few days ago. [[Shows a press clipping]] Marriage that earns 80000 euros point to their son and daughter at an English and computer academy, they pay ninety euros per course and, thanks to the Government of Change, they deduct 108 euros. This is to support the middle and working classes, gentlemen of the PP! That's his way of acting. Faced with this, the Socialist Group will vote yes to this royal decree, it will continue to support the Government in promoting measures to support workers, families, self-employed people and businesses, because for us it is important how we get out of the crisis all of us and social investment is fundamental to the survival of society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u76	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u77	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the bill dealing with the remuneration of unissued CO2 from the electricity market. For the introduction of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u78	President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you today to defend the draft law on unissued CO2 compensation from the electricity market and, therefore, to ask you to support it and to vote against the amendments to the whole presented. And I have to say that I have listened carefully to Mr Movellán's speech, as concerned as his group says it is about the consumer light bill, and yet with the light with which they vote against - as they have always done - the reduction of taxation, the reduction of the cost and the impact of the wholesale market on the Spanish bill. Surprisingly, an exercise of coherence proper to those who have been practicing this opposition, and therefore it is not surprising that they do the same with this bill. This instrument that we are discussing today, together with the creation of the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, helps to reduce the electricity bill of families, industries and SMEs, accelerate the energy transition and promote the necessary electrification for decarbonisation. The CO2 reduction mechanism designed by the law seeks to recover part of the infra-marginal income attributable to the carbon dividend in favour of all consumers and seeks to facilitate the participation of the whole system in the dividends generated by the CO2 price. As you know - and we have been talking about this this morning - the Spanish electricity market, like that of the other members of the European Union and the vast majority of OECD countries, is a marginal market, in which the latest technology covering demand is the one that determines the price for the rest of the technologies. The most common thing is that this price is marked in the wholesale market by CO2-emitting installations, and therefore a part of the final price paid to all generators corresponds to these emission allowances, which pay those who must comply with the polluter-pays principle and receive those who do not issue or have to report for it. This is a cost that also pays for all infra-marginal technologies, and it is about this additional remuneration that has internalised the cost of CO2 emissions allowances on which the law acts. The recovery of part of the income does not alter at all the regulatory framework for price fixing designed in Europe; the marginal market will continue to operate and determine the price and order of sale on the market, to which all electricity is remunerated through the usual supply and demand check, as laid down in Articles 3 and 7.2 of the European Union Regulation 2019/943. Emissions trading has been enormously important, it is an engine of change in the investment decisions of companies, it has allowed since its start more than fifteen years ago adequate signals to drastically reduce emissions in electricity generation and encourage investment in renewables, becoming today the lowest operating cost technologies, the most present in our energy system. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal seeks to recover part of the dividend, as I told you, which has received non-broadcasting facilities in operation since before 2003 in favour of the system as a whole, and stressed before 2003 because many of the non-broadcasting plants have been operating since before Directive 2003/87, which created the European Union's emission allowance market. Therefore, when they decided at the time to address the necessary investments, they could not take into account the impact of the European system on their investment and profitability calculations. As I said, it is a proposal compatible with the European framework, consistent with the principles of the internal electricity market, the carbon market in the European Union, legal certainty and the legitimate expectations of investors. It is a proposal similar to that applied between 2006 and 2009, which was expressly validated by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 October 2013 and by the Supreme Court on 1 April 2014. Both the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that the marginalist system of the electricity market generates'situations of - I quote literally - undeserved gains in so far as the internalisation of the value of emission allowances and the cost structure are reflected in the price of electricity received by all electricity producers active in the wholesale electricity market'. The Act also incorporates the recommendations of the Council of State's opinion of 21 July 2021, strengthening legal certainty and the principles of reasonable profitability, legitimate confidence and proportionality. According to that opinion, this is a solution that is respectful of the principle of legal certainty, which adequately protects the legitimate expectations of operators, but prevents any rise in emission allowances from benefiting those infra-marginal technologies that do not incur emission costs, thereby protecting consumers from rising electricity prices. Our Government is committed to consumer protection. We believe that the changes introduced after the opinion of the Council of State reinforce the situation of consumers, also reinforce the situation of electricity companies. What are those changes with respect to the initial version? First, the establishment of a floor price of 20,7 euros/tonne, which coincides with the average quote of allowances on the market from 2017 until the time when the preliminary draft law was adopted. In this way, the recommendation is incorporated that the amount of the reduction be linked to the difference between the price of allowances at each time and an average price, a market reference in recent years. Thus, trust in investment is not linked to the time of initial investment, but to the average value of rights in recent years. On the other hand, we advance the reference date for the application of the reduction to the facilities concerned. At first we had introduced the date of 2005, because it is the year in which the European system comes into force in our country. Faced with this, we incorporated the year 2003, when this directive was adopted and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, thereby reinforcing the principle of legitimate confidence. In this regard, the Council of State affirms that this progress has logic from the perspective of the principle of legal certainty and the protection of legitimate confidence insofar as it excludes from the minority all those operators who invested after that date, 25 October 2003, which could already have the economic expectation of profits, as a result of the emissions trading regime and have internalized this value in their accounts when making the investment calculations. The Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, has no doubt supported this mechanism in its opinion. The planned mechanism for reducing the over-income received - the High Council points out - is suitable both for the purpose pursued, to reduce the price of electricity and to promote the electrification of the economy, as well as for the general lines of its design and justification. The opinion confirms that the law is in accordance with European Union law and the criterion of reasonable profitability and argues that the marginalist nature of the market does not mean that interventions cannot take place, provided that they are justified and are not discriminatory, as is the case here. With regard to the development of the law, I would like to point out that the non-stationary power stations that came into operation after 2003, as I have indicated, are excluded from the minority. It therefore does not apply to investment in new renewable plants, which is key to the decarbonisation process of our energy mix and to the achievement of the climate objectives we have set as a country. It shall not affect this mechanism either to non-stationary power stations which are hosted by any regulated remuneration framework or to installations less than 10 megawatts or located in non-penisular territory electrical systems, regardless of their date of commissioning. The annual revenue received by this reduction will be intended to finance capacity mechanisms and charges in the electricity system, among other things, which currently fall on consumers, thereby effectively reducing the bill for domestic consumers, SMEs and industries. In particular, they will be aimed at financing renewable energy charges, encouraging the sharing of the costs of the transition between all technologies and giving great impetus to electrification. Our estimate is that this law, together with the contribution of the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, will help reduce the bill of domestic consumers to 15%, almost 14% for SMEs or 5.22% for large consumers. In addition, it contributes to the special protection of the most vulnerable groups by establishing that 10% of the revenue is to be used to co-finance the costs of public administrations related to severely vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion. As for the amendment to the whole tabled by the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, I said before that I am not surprised, although I do not resist making a small comment. I am not surprised by those who have not supported any of the measures for the energy transition and left their duties unanswered, I am not surprised by those who have made it difficult and left behind a legacy of conflict and demands, I am not surprised by those who have voted against the coverage of coal miners and workers, I am not surprised by those who announce their vote against the tax reduction measures and the fixed costs of the invoice, what exactly they air and what they devote great efforts to, as if it were their solution. It is difficult to understand how one can change one's mind in such a limited amount of time, but also in this case it was you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who on 26 May of this same year, not a week before the preliminary draft minority law will be published for public consultation, who submitted an amendment to the Royal Decree Law 34/2020 requesting the creation of a similar mechanism. And I quote: 'The Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge will develop within three months a mechanism of the limitation of the overpayment that non-carbon emission technologies can perceive as a result of the incorporation of CO2 into wholesale market prices by the emission technologies'. I do not know whether you have repented of your own proposals or whether, as seems to be usual, you practice the policy of systematically going against everything that is said at any time with regard to any circumstance whatsoever. Ladies and gentlemen, this measure that I advocate today, along with the other structural measures that the Government has been taking for three years and the joint action of citizens and the private sector, will enable us to facilitate the energy transition in a fair and equitable way, sharing costs, facilitating access to profits and dividends and, above all, protecting the most vulnerable groups. I therefore call on you to support a measure which is highly demanded socially and politically, respectfully, legally guaranteed and proportionate to the objective pursued and which is within the framework of the rules of the national and European market and does not distort price signals. Our commitment is to tackle the energy transition in the best conditions, in the fairest way and protecting consumers in particular. I trust that this responsibility can be shared and supported by all of us in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u79	Thank you very much. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gago Bugarín, has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u80	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, the only ones who voted against a tax cut in energy have been you. It was you when you had and have, when you continue to have on the table a bill to reduce our country's energy taxation. It was you and your Government who did not want to support a proposal that we have made to you on six occasions in this House. We have been able to reach agreements with the energy sector, with the electricity sector, with the business sector. We have been able to comply with Kyoto, we have been able to comply with Paris. In short, we have been able to approve new renewable auctions. I don't know what distortion, what sticks the People's Party talks about ecological transition. Of course, you, more and more, show that you rise to this rostrum with a rite of responsibility and rigour and then tell us falsehoods. Look, the level of a government is measured by its ability to anticipate problems, its ability to dampen blows when they are badly dealt, and its ability to shift an image of solvency and responsibility to adversity. Exactly the opposite of what you have shown all this time. Rather, you have shown an absolute lack of anticipation, an absolute ineffectiveness in the measures taken and an ideological stoning bias in your ecological transition road map. It lacks anticipation because the problem we have on the table today was already seen coming, and we warned it already. [[The lady]] We warned him in January when Filomena broke in and the gas consumption and price went off; we warned him when analysts anticipated a significant increase in the price of gas in the short term, the result of tensions and international supply, and we made an offensive of initiatives, interventions and questions to increase, as much as possible, the storage of gas, gas reserves and take advantage of the gas input potential that we have as a country to close long-term contracts. We do not even know today what Mr Sánchez has achieved in practice at his meetings in Algeria after the Ghali case. There is a lack of anticipation of the interconnections necessary for the deployment of renewables and a lack of anticipation in the reduction of energy taxation that we proposed to you, as I said at the beginning, in order to tackle in a certain way the problem that, gradually, was to come and that we have reiterated to you as active and passive. On the other hand, inefficiency in management because none, absolutely none of the measures that they have adopted without dialogue with the main opposition party has managed to reduce the high aggression of our country's electricity tariff. The rate rose by 245 % in May with the Climate Change Act; it rose by 252 % in June with the approval of the preliminary draft law of the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electricity System; it rose by 290 % in August with the approval of the preliminary draft law that we are currently debating; it rose by 350 % in September with the approval of the Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, debated this morning, and today the price of light stands at 215 euros per hour, compared to 40 euros that cost the same day a year ago. Externalities yes, Mrs Ribera, but the lack of anticipation and inefficiency in management, too. But look, Mrs Rivera, at the lack of anticipation and the inefficiency in management, you have to add something even more serious than ignorance, which is the ideological bias of your energy policies in the midst of the economic crisis. An ideological bias that has led him to raise the price of diesel to eighteen million Spaniards, while eliminating the Renove Plan and while we have the oldest car park in Europe. The same ideological bias that has led you also to change the hourly pricing of SMEs and small consumers to increase the hourly range, precisely when there is more demand. I mean, it's taken him to tell the Spaniards to do at 12 o'clock in the evening what they were doing at 8 o'clock in the afternoon. And an ideological bias because Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 and this bill that seeks to impose a tax on water, wind and nuclear clearly undermines the incorporation, deployment of renewables, the reduction of CO2 and the competitiveness of national industry. Therefore, Mrs Rivera, this is not a fair transition; this is a forced, erratic and painful conversion for the Spanish as a whole. If we are talking exclusively about the bill and the sum of Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, which are being debated today, I have to tell you, Mrs Ribera, that you have made a biased reading of the interpretations of the agencies and the regulator. The European Commission literally called it an interventionist. Yesterday, a uniform from the European Commission states, with reference to the new Spanish energy measures, that decisions that affect the sustainability of the marginal market cannot be made. The Council of State and the National Commission on Markets and Competition asked him to leave the wind industry without affecting this bill by the principle of rebuttableness. The main rating agents, for example, Fitch, Moody's or Standard and Poor's, among others, published the following assessments: one, the measures demonstrate the degree of political interference in Spain; two, there is uncertainty as to whether other interventionist measures are to be replicated in the future; three, the companies need investment cuts to protect risk ratings; four, the companies had almost all their base generation for 2021 and 2022 at significantly lower prices than the current spot market, so the measure results in a loss for generators and consumers, and five, the measures taken could threaten the 2019 nuclear agreement between operators and the State, the proposed limit in the price mechanism will make nuclear plants not profitable. Mrs Ribera, look at what I just told you. Among the European Commission, the Council of State, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, international analysts, leading rating companies, agents involved in the Spanish electricity market, employers' and farmers' confederations and vulnerable consumers, Mrs Ribera, is there any agent, affected or involved in the energy sector of our country that supports it? Honestly, if there's one, tell us. The real problem is the inevitable consequences that inefficiency in measures, such as this bill, and ideological bias are generating. The mechanism proposed by the Government intervenes where it cannot or should not intervene, which is the daily wholesale market, generating potential distortions, legal uncertainty and regulatory uncertainty. However, it ceases to do so where it can, through sincere negotiations with the nuclear and hydroelectric installations sector, provide a stable medium- and long-term remuneration and regulatory framework that will ultimately allow the necessary investments to increase useful life, to increase pumping capacity, to increase and create reserve, capacity and hybridization mechanisms, in short, to mitigate volatility and peaks on the wholesale market in the short term. Look, to the extent that in the design of a marginalist market technologies do not compete for their typology but for their costs, I wonder what it makes sense to put a wind tax on the wind industry before October 2003, which accounts for 5000 megawatts and 20% of all installed wind energy, being an industry that enjoys competition and must be modernised if it wants to compete. How are you going to guarantee, Madam Minister, the security of supply and the reduction of CO2 emissions without nuclear energy, which, as you know, accounts for 22.18% of electricity in Spain? How long do they expect the nuclear industry to be able to produce losses with this tax? I wonder if you do not see the decisions your Community partners are making when they go to meetings in Europe. Mrs Ribera, if we do not have nuclear energy, as has already been said here in the first intervention of the day, we will be even more dependent on gas and we will be in the hands of gas policies in third countries. The tax on hydraulic energy, promoting the non-renewal of concessions or, which is the same, promoting the expropriation of concessions, makes sense knowing that the claims to rescue concessions from its communist government partners are to create, precisely, a public energy company. Indeed, it is inexplicable to this parliamentary group, and I believe that for most Spaniards, the energy policy of this government, which wants to lead decarbonisation, attacks the technologies that make us depend less on gas and CO2 emissions, such as hydraulics, wind and nuclear. But, Mrs Ribera, what worries us most, and I think that is what worries the Spaniards these days, in addition to the cost to their pocket of the electric charge and the price of light, is the fear that they are being led by the loss of competitiveness that companies and industry are suffering in our country. In February of this year, I quoted four companies that had closed or had planned to close because of their poor energy policy in the government's control session. I guess you remember them, don't you? I told him that if he did not take urgent action, next semester, that is, today, there would be many more; and indeed, his inefficiency and his proposals are leading to unemployment and closures, threatening to send tens of thousands of workers to the queues of unemployment. In other words, the State is going to move from the social contributions of industrial workers to increased expenditure on thermal bonds and on the minimum vital supply of workers who, with these measures, are sending them to unemployment. The announced hack of $26 billion is going to be short, and in addition to being excessive, it generates very serious distortions. President, it's over. Up to six times - it was said at the beginning - we have presented our proposal for a law to reduce the electric charge. You have started your speech by saying that we, that this parliamentary group, that the opposition leader, that the real government alternative had not proposed any alternative to lower energy taxation. We have presented it to you six times and you have voted no. How can you say this in the eyes of all the Spaniards? He has reluctantly endowed some of the tax rebates that we have proposed - he has them on the table right now - but they are insufficient, as he has seen. Our bill includes more ambitious taxation to protect vulnerable consumers and the domestic base industry. It is necessary to send the tariff deficit, which you generated, Mrs Ribera, and the rest of the non-energy costs to the General Budgets of the State, so that it is you, and not the pockets of the Spanish with new taxes, who decide where they have to reduce to cover these expenses. Madam Vice-President, today you have announced in this House some measures, some patches, some future amendments that are contrary to what you are trying to adopt here today. Do you realize the inconsistency of your decisions? These corrections were not the result of the dialogue with the main opposition party, they were not; nor were they only the result of the meetings held yesterday with important companies in our country. They are the result exclusively of the leniency of energy generators that cannot produce at the loss of large consumers who are engaged in taking on their economic cleavage. That is why I should come here today to discuss an amended and definitive text, and not this text, which, moreover, involves a litany in the processing time as we see how companies paralyze their activity or close down along the way. It should put in place genuine support for specific bilateral contracts with the industries of our country, without anyone producing losses and guaranteeing a secure energy that guarantees our competitiveness. In short, Mrs Ribera, bring a text of urgent handling up to the circumstances that our country needs because this, I can assure you, is not going to support it. Spain is at a delicate moment, the Spanish industry is at a delicate moment; act accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Gago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this law regulating the reduction in the remuneration of submarginal and non-stationary power stations put into service prior to the entry into force of the CO2 emission allowance market. It says in the preamble that, about the revenues generated by this bill, they are considered to have to revert to electrical consumers. We hope that this approach will be applied that will promote the development of distributed generation, which is the best tool for consumers, and that will also address energy poverty. But, in the same way, the funds obtained should be transferred to compensate for those land uses that enable CO2 fixation, for example, our mountains and our forests. The polluter pays is a usual principle, but the decontaminate should also be remunerated for it. In addition to the need for this and other laws, the Spanish electricity sector must, first and foremost, reduce electricity prices for consumers, which must be the main objective, but must also offer a constructive attitude on the part of electricity companies and the Government. Citizens expect from electricity companies a transparency effort on the facts, the causes of rising prices and the tools to reduce them, but we also expect from the government clarity and precision on regulatory decisions in the sector. We expect transparency, communication efforts and pedagogy on energy concepts and bills, and we say transparency and not advertising campaigns. The preamble to the bill states that electricity currently accounts for only 20% of the energy consumed. We're in a process of energy change. The decarbonisation of the sector and the economy will lead to a greater share of energy consumption through electricity, which means that a huge portion of the Spanish economy, a sector that belongs to society as a whole and not to a few companies or to specific regulations, must change in the general interest. This energy transition process must be carried out in an orderly manner, and we reiterate that it is necessary to order the deployment of renewable energy through a law that regulates physical installation in the territory and promotes the participation of local communities and landowners in renewable energy projects and their benefits. There is also a strong need to boost distributed generation by using European recovery funds to support small and medium-sized renewable energy cooperatives located at points close to consumption. We must also ensure access to electricity networks and evacuation points for distributed generation projects and modernise and digitise low-voltage networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. I greet Mrs Ribera again. The amendment of the whole with alternative text of the draft law to act on the remuneration of unissued CO2 from the electricity market concerns a matter that is vital both for society and for businesses and, therefore, for employment generation and social welfare. The initiative defended by MP Gago Bugarín is formulated at a time that is sadly historic, because the Spaniards are paying the highest rates of all time, with a devastating impact and brutal negative impact on the domestic economy, business competitiveness, industry and employment. Today, with Sánchez, with Minister Ribera, Spain becomes more and more impoverished every day. I share the amendment of the content of this bill with measures that reduce the receipt of light and transfer to the general budgets the fixed costs of the bill, as well as urgent tax action to permanently suspend the tax on generation, the permanent reduction of VAT, which in Spain has a tax rate of 21 % since 2012, one of the highest in the European Union, and the increase in revenues in the electricity system by the increased collection of CO2 rights. So timely is this proposal from the People's Group, which we have now learned that the government leaves EUR 179 million to industry to compensate for CO2, a long distance from the European Union's and similar countries' limits to Spain, such as France and Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been preceded by a preventive propaganda campaign by the Government, truncated with the registration of the paid mega vice-president of Iberdrola, the well-known socialist influencer, Mr Carmona, who uncovers the hypocrisy of the PSOE and Podemos; a campaign with which the Government has tried to camouflage the disaster of its energy policy after almost three and a half years of government by Pedro Sánchez and its short-circuit minister, Mrs Rivera, who with this bill intervenes in a liberalized market and deepens legal insecurity to protect the interests of the Government at the cost of punishing and looting consumers' pockets. Therefore, I will vote in favour of the alternative text proposed by the People's Group and concludes by saying that the calamitous results of the so-called just transition have in Asturias in the form of desertification and unemployment the most salutary evidence and economic ravages of the poor energy policy of the Government, a failure that will characterize this XIV Legislative. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u85	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Gentlemen of the People's Party, seeing this amendment tabled by your party, the truth is that you do not know what to stick to, because it is an amendment to the whole with an alternative text that really has nothing to do with the bill. I understand that you want to present your alternative on these issues of the electricity market, but really, with what you propose, I think it is very difficult to tackle the problem that we have in the short term in Spain with the price of energy, because with measures such as reducing taxes to zero, with what this entails, it does not seem the way to solve the problem. I believe that the price of energy is a matter which needs a major reform, a temporary reform, along the lines of which the Government is presenting. And it is not that I agree with all, but in this case we have already discussed also in the validation of the previous decree-law that needed important modifications. I repeat, consumers must be defended, but neither can businesses, both small and large, be persecuted. Precisely, it is the large companies that are all over the world and bring benefits to Spain. Many people forget this, and you know it, but you don't say it. Going against them would bring foreign companies to our country, as has already happened in other sectors. This project reduces the so-called tax benefits, the fallen profits of the sky, and it is fine, that it is not precisely those who have said in the previous decree-law a spokesman who does not have the very clear concepts, because it is those that some companies charge for not emitting CO2 and has nothing to do with those that derive from the marginal price. We have also heard more than one member of this government say that it is about recovering the extraordinary benefit obtained in the past by companies. Legally it cannot be or is that, you have to be very careful about statements, because the legal security of societies is no slogan, you have to take it very seriously. However, we will not support the alternative text presented by the People's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u88	Thank you, President. My group is not going to support the amendment as a whole, and I am also surprised that you have an amendment to the draft law on urgent measures to support the business solvency of the energy and tax sector, which is precisely what you want to amend today. They want to amend the plan to the Government, but the fact is that you are also amending yourself because you de facto annul that amendment to this bill. In addition, they bring us an alternative text that has already been voted on a few times here and has not gone forward, and also in coherence, because we have been voting in favour of the measures put forward by the Government. No one questions the transition to a green economy. We have been able to explain the advantages and opportunities that it will offer us, but perhaps what we have not explained is that it has a number of costs that we have to bear, as I said in the morning: society, economic and industrial sectors. And if this leads to loss of income for certain groups, loss of competitiveness for sectors whose decarbonisation process is more complex, it will have to help them along the way and seek mechanisms to compensate them and to accompany them in the necessary investments in this process. If we don't all do it together, we will hardly be able to involve society in these goals. In view of the rise in the price of light we all have to assume a share, society and companies, and in this sense two of the measures of the Government have gone, the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System and the bill that we are debating today, in order to try to lower the bill and that we are not only consumers who continue to bear all the costs of the electric bill. The marginalist market, although today it seems the opposite, has as its advantage that it sends correct signals to investors, and so, when the price rises, the incentive to invest increases, especially for infra-marginal technologies, but also this same marginalist market can over retribute to technologies that do not need that signal because no investment is going to be made in them or investments that have to be recovered in a liberalised environment have not been made. In the state we are talking about the revenues received by nuclear power plants, a large part of the installed hydroelectric power and wind farms prior to the publication of Directive 2003/87, which created the European CO2 market and which today include in the receipt the costs of CO2 emissions despite producing energy that does not generate greenhouse gases. In short, a windfall tax is applied to reduce the impact of the increase in the electricity tariff on consumers to cover the costs of the system with the extraordinary revenues generated by power plants that do not emit CO2 and are, as I said, prior to the birth of the European carbon market. A similar suggestion was already made in 2007, when it was mentioned that the value of CO2 rights internalised in the market price would be reduced from the non-broadcast generation's remuneration, although that measure was withdrawn in 2009; a measure that was brought to the courts but that however the EUJC concluded that it was in accordance with the law. But Europe also allows these CO2-related incomes to be reduced. The project estimates the amount of the reduction of around 625 million which, as the Vice-President has said, will be used to combat energy poverty, to help severely vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion and another percentage will cover the costs of the electricity system, prioritising the financing of the existing capacity mechanisms and allocating the surplus to finance the charges of the electricity system. Nor can we make it clear that the rule also had the endorsement of the Council of State and the CNMC, although the CNMC also carried out some numerals which, at best, could be considered in the process of amendments. In our view, the norm in some case also requires some nuance and improvement, so the time will come for this group to raise them. We will therefore vote no to the whole amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Vice-President, we continue to debate a matter of vital importance not only for the future of the Spanish, but also for the present. We have already had the opportunity to discuss today the situation of the electricity price and how the Spanish receive their highest bill every month. In this situation, the Government has promoted a bill to reduce the remuneration of certain power generation technologies that it considered excessive. They argue that the increase in the cost of CO2 allowances as a result of the marginalist pricing system of the wholesale market is over remunerating these companies and giving them benefits of regulatory origin that are not deserved. I have already commented this morning in the previous intervention that the unissued CO2 wage reduction mechanism is a tool that, although it is certainly an improvement, has room in our market economy at the time it cuts off extraordinary benefits of purely regulatory origin, the CO2 emissions market, which companies could not have foreseen when putting forward their investment. Still, we think it's a law that we can improve, because there are some things that don't just fit in. It seems that the Government is willing to let go of investment in renewable energy, and with this law there is a risk that many of them will be left out. There are things we want to improve and we are doing so now in the period to register partial amendments. We believe that it is a somewhat rigid and arbitrary project in some respects, the minority does not adapt to the reality of the market and, completely unjustifiedly, its modification is left in the hands of the ministry, which seems to us, at least, striking. Spain needs to continue to attract investment and mechanisms like this, but measures like this create enormous legal uncertainty. Then we have the People's Party which, today, in the rostrum they say that they have presented this same initiative for the sixth time and today they bring back the same text, the same measures and we say the same thing again: gentlemen of the People's Party, I expected much more from you. What did they want to do, present the same thing and that we, all of a sudden, wanted to support them? Among those measures is, for example, the elimination of the electricity tax that you yourselves have set up, and it seems to us that you do so in a rather unresponsible way, because in the end what you want is for those revenues that come through that tax to fall on the State's General Budgets and what you do not tell the citizens is that we will have to pay it equally. So if you want to introduce new measures, we'll be happy to look at them, but no matter how much they repeat them, they don't make them any better. This whole amendment is also based on forecasts of the evolution of the emission market, sometimes inflated to double or triple what the CNMC envisages to fit with the calculation of the budgets of this amendment. As liberals, we believe together in the elimination of any unnecessary tax, of course, and those that are unnecessary too, and we believe in the best management of governments, of course we do, but, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that you aspire to propose such tax reductions, as I said, just by going to the General Budgets of the State. Moreover, they use it politically, because what they want is for their measures to be implemented in 2021, 2022 and 2023, just in time for an election and being able to say that they have wanted to do things and have not been allowed to do so. Let us be, please, a little responsible because the economy of our country, the economy of citizens and families is at stake. Bipartisanism once again shows that it always puts its partisan interests before the general interest of the Spaniards. The two parties have been ruling Spain for forty years and use such a sensitive subject as this, which affects millions of Spaniards in addition, to simply campaign. The Spaniards deserve to see their politicians and their representatives working to achieve that rapid, real and sustainable descent. That must be the objective, not to fight for elections that have not yet arrived. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the truth is that, although this project seems to us to allow some progress, we do not think it is enough. Why? Because it aims to eliminate the overpay that some generation technologies that do not emit CO2 but that because of the marginalist operation charge the price that marks the cassation of the electrical system by which since 2005 other broadcasting technologies have to internalize the cost of CO2. The reality is that in the days of the highest electricity prices almost never marked the highest price the combined cycles, natural gas or thermals, coal; almost always it was the water that, surprisingly, is the cheapest of the entire electrical system. That shows the perversion of the marginalist system. For this reason, the BNG insists that if we really want to reduce the electricity bill, we need to act more decisively, by re-regulating the electricity system that is designed to give priority to the public and social interest in the interests of a few large energy companies. The Government should introduce into Congress a new law on the electricity sector, which will, inter alia, eliminate the current marginalist market, provide for greater public intervention capacity and set specific electricity tariffs for surplus electricity-producing communities. Because we do not give up that Galicia can have a Galician electric tariff in its status as a surplus producing country of electric energy that, as I have repeated many times, already pays the social and environmental costs of that specialization that we do not decide. From our perspective, the bill establishes a modification that is not bad, as I said, but that, like others that are being addressed, will be limited. In any case, this problem is not solved by the amendments of the extreme right and the extreme right, which seem to be more concerned about the results accounts of the large electricity companies than by reducing the bill of light to the social majorities, to the popular classes and to the small companies. So, we'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u94	Good morning, good afternoon. Alberto, mate, see you soon! Good morning again. Hello, minister, I'm the one before. We are discussing the umpteenth amendment to the whole undynamic duo of PP and VOX. After the Waste Act and the National Electricity System Sustainability Fund Act, as there are no two without three, they are now opposed to the law that acts on the remuneration of unissued CO2. No surprises. The proposal of the People's Party - let me say - is not too original. They are again taking advantage of this amendment to put their entire battery of measures to lower the price of light; measures that obviously do not touch the pocket of the electrics - it will not be that we lose the opportunity to sit on some board of directors - and focus basically on fiscal measures. It is already known that it is the right answer for almost everything, it is his balm of Fierabrás: in the face of any problem, lowering taxes, it gives equal to who, because pensions, unemployment benefits, ERTs, health, education and housing policies are paid alone. And the other star measure is the reduction of charges by transferring the tariff deficit and extrapenisular costs to budgets. I mean, they don't solve anything, they just move the problem from one side to the other. That's also very typical of the right. But what can we expect from the party that precisely pushed the reform of the electricity sector, Mr Aznar's party, from the party that privatized Endesa, which started the tariff deficit and devoted the costs of transition from competition to nuclear, all of which we still suffer and which have their share of responsibility in the current situation of high prices. The old people of the place do not forget that it was Rodrigo Rato who started the tariff deficit precisely. They had time and opportunity to adopt concrete, surgical measures, without cost to the public, in a PNL that sleeps the dream of the righteous and which Esquerra proposed to them at the last session of the Climate Change Committee. We propose to boost the actions necessary to ensure the divestment of the value chain by the integrated groups to increase asymmetry in the market and reduce barriers to access. We propose to amend Article 5.3 of Royal Decree 216/2014, to limit the subjective scope of the PVP to micro-enterprises and domestic customers. We propose to set up an auction process for customers of merchants who lose their license due to loss of economic capacity and send to CNMC. We propose to take advantage of the transposition of the Internal Market Directive to open up all energy markets, such as primary regulation or RCF; to adapt shared consumption to a power of 5 mega and to a distance of 5 kilometers - no invention, this is done in France -; to amend the Law 49/1960, on Horizontal Property, to facilitate the implementation of self-consumption; to amend Article 20.1 of the VAT Law, to add the remuneration of the excess energy of self-consumption up to 15 kilowatts, so that it is an external VAT activity and thus to facilitate to the maximum the dimensioning of the self-consumption facilities. And that you did not accept, but it turns out that these gentlemen neither So you announced that all these measures are being amended - where we will put our axe, Minister - when you are pleased to bring to the Bureau the bill that we hope the House will see soon. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[pointing to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] For its part, VOX criticized the bill for its interventionist nature. They make an amendment to the whole, with a negationist and scientific ode which, frankly, we do not think is worth the penalty of spending more time on the stenologist or the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u96	Thank you very much, President. I like the parliamentary debate, and that is why I think we must listen carefully to the speakers and adapt our speeches to the dialogue as it is taking place. In that connection, I was surprised by Mr Gago's speech, whom I know of the Ecological Transitional Commission and whom I respect, because he has actually said things that are unmatched and that had not been heard in this House. For example, it has linked the rise in the price of light with various legislative initiatives that have been taken in this country, for example, the Climate Change Act. We have been discussing the issue of the price of light for weeks and we all know the causes of the rise in the price of light, which has to do, for example, with the rise in the price of gas in international markets. He has also referred to the ideological bias of government initiatives. If this means that we do not kneel before the electric oligopoly, for I accept it and recognise that it is so, indeed. However, to speak of ideological bias, he mentioned the issue of diesel. Look, diesel pollution is not an ideological thing, it is that, according to the World Health Organization - in particular, according to the IARC - diesel smoke is a degraded carcinogen 1. It is that the microparticles in the cities come from diesel combustion; it is that a diesel vehicle emits twenty times more microparticles than a petrol vehicle; it is that the pollution by diesel causes 90% of the nitrogen oxides in the cities. Where is the ideological bias of trying to solve the problem of diesel pollution? Where is he? Are these data false? Of course they're not. By the way, speaking of another question that does have an ideological component, speaking of the need for a public energy company, this morning I saw the spokesman of the People's Party, Mr Mariscal, denying with his head when it was said that the privatization of Endesa was done by the Aznar government. It seems good to me that the People's Party rejects its actions and refuses to privatize Endesa. And, by the way, referring to the company Enel says: a company headquartered in Rome. Well, it's called In, we all know it, and besides, it's an Italian public company. But if it seems wrong to you to have privatized Endesa, then, listen, here you have the exit to create a new public electric company, which we believe is absolutely necessary. Therefore, I think it is good that you refuse to privatise Endesa and, in that sense, I think it is time to rectify, because the situation requires a public energy company in our country, because we are talking about a strategic sector and a question that directly affects the pocket of all citizens. This was previous notes because in reality what we are discussing is the set of two bills submitted by the Government and now in the process - the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system and the remuneration of CO2-, which will, once approved - as the Vice-President has said - a 15% reduction in the bill for light. I believe that both should be processed as quickly as possible in order to avoid further influence by the wholesale market on consumers' electricity bills. We are therefore faced with initiatives that will bring decisive structural changes and that will benefit all and, in particular, the most vulnerable. I understand that in this debate what should move us is precisely the objective of reducing the price of light, thereby benefiting the social majority. That is at least what motivates the government coalition to implement these measures in addition to those already taken. It is also surprising that in their amendment to the whole, what they basically propose are initiatives that have already been taken by the Government: the reduction of VAT, the elimination of the energy tax and some expenditure to the general budgets of the State. In short, these are measures, which you propose, in which only the State assumes the burden of the cost of reducing the price of light. It draws attention to the fact that an amendment to the whole of this bill is being tabled, which seeks to ensure that part of the burden of measures to reduce the price of light falls on the electricity companies themselves. The whole effort cannot be done by the state as long as the electrics get far too many benefits. Yesterday the president of Iberdrola, Sánchez Galán - today has been mentioned repeatedly - said many things and, among other things, warned the government that it cannot be ruled by radicals. I understand that he was referring to United Podemos, to whom he blames us for initiatives that can have a small impact on their economic benefits. No wonder he says so, what surprises us is that there are parties around here, by Congress, always willing to pick up their demands. In recent weeks the Spaniards have learned a lot about the electricity market. We already know that the electric oligopoly controls 80% of electricity production and that it is obtaining extraordinary benefits from the sky, due to the high price of gas in the wholesale market. No one should be surprised, therefore, that we do not ask for empathy from the electricians, but that we share with them the burden of the cost of light with a small part of those benefits. Of that and of no other thing goes this proposition of law. We already know that electric oligopoly does not run for election; it is very easy for them to blackmail threats. Thus, they have moved from the threat of shutdown of nuclear power plants to the cancellation of investment in renewables or to explain to the President of the Government what the composition of his Government should be. For politics they already have their spokespersons here, always willing to meet the demands of oligopoly. But they have no doubt that we and we will continue to work to ensure that there really is an energy policy independent of that electric oligopoly, so that there is an energy policy designed by and for the citizens because, I insist, the energy sector is a fundamental sector, it is a strategic sector for our country and, therefore, it must be governed by thinking of all the people who need that energy every day, that electricity. That is what this Government is doing with these proposals, which today the People's Party is amending as a whole. Thank you very much and good day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u97	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I mentioned in my previous speech, legal security is an essential element of every democracy and, above all, of European democracies, insofar as we do not have great natural resources to live on; in the end, we have to live on the legal security that we provide to those who want to do business in this country. We have to understand that legal certainty is subverted by many issues, many threats, and one of those threats that is becoming more and more clear is this state of the welfare of politicians, these irresponsible politicians, whether by actions, omissions, or even by legislation, which ultimately destroys the Spanish economy, destroys the work of the Spanish and, finally, generates very serious damage, and those politicians, moreover, in their welfare state, do not pay the consequences of their actions. Mr. Rodriguez, I see you're still here. You have been convicted by a final decision of the Supreme Court for kicking an official, and yet instead of leaving your seat, as the ruling says, you are stuck here. Why? Because the welfare state of politicians is very nice, treading carpet is very nice and that is why it is hard to comply with the sentence and go home, which is what you should do and what would support the legal security of Spain. [[applause]] Because that legal certainty is also subverted by a part of the government's action that is based on pure lies, pure fallacies, pure nonsense, because you are falsehoods. Madam Minister, you come up here and, clad in pomp and rumor, you point out to us with absolute severity issues that are absolutely false. You come and bring a rule that is called: to mitigate the impact of the gas price escalation, and what you intend to do is to put your hand in the pocket of the Spaniards to put it back in your bag. You bring a rule that is called: on the remuneration of unissued CO2. Anyone would think that you want to avoid a remuneration that is given to CO2 and it is a lie; you are inventing a new type of tax, a new tax, a new tax, a new public price to charge those power generators that do not emit CO2; it is surrealistic. And you come here and tell us a battle of lowering the price of light and it's all a lie, because the real decree you bring, the rule you bring, the bill only talks about tax hacks, it just talks about putting your hand in the pocket of companies, of the Spaniards, etc. They say absolutely nothing of a discount of the price of light, nothing. You, basically, are stealing money from us with the excuse of in the future, perhaps, lowering the price of light, but the reality is that you don't bring it here, you don't allow it to be debated. The question of all this comes from the CO2, which is at some deorbited levels, implies an increase in the excessive light, and you now want to put your hand in the pocket of those who do not generate CO2 and, therefore, are not subjected to that axe that ultimately generates you. Because, let's get back to the question, CO2 has the prices it has because you are subject to an auction which can be attended by any speculator passing through Spain. And that is not fair, Minister, because you record those who issue, you charge those who buy CO2 rights to emit CO2, and now you come and intend to tax those who, by fulfilling your instructions, started not to generate CO2. Because, if this were a career, minister, instead of helping those runners who go in the last position, who have more difficulties, you what you intended to do would be to beat those faster, more agile runners. You intend to tarnish the system and, in the end, that will mean a reduction in the energy supply in Spain and, necessarily, an increase in the prices of light. And that's what any first-rate economics student knows. It seems a lie that you are not predicting what the consequences of your regulations will be, and proof of that is that every time you open your mouth there is a new peak in energy prices. So, for their negligence, all the Spaniards are suffering and paying. All, including Socialist Party voters, because they also consume energy. [[Applauds]] You come here and pretend to put this new regón with the excuse, in the end, to lower the price of light, because you say that there is no money for it. As I have already told you, Minister, you have pocketed 9 billion in tax through the light. They could put it down a little bit, just a little bit. So, you come with that excuse that there's no money and you want to put your hand in the pocket of the Spaniards again because there's no money. However, for ransoms to Plus Ultra, to give paydays to young people and buy wills, for that it seems they do have money. In the end, you are welcoming these climate dogmas, those criteria that are imposed by the European Commission and you are welcoming them because it is ultimately serving them as an excuse, among other things, to destroy Spanish industry, to destroy the Spanish energy market. If there really was a fight against that climate situation or that climate emergency, maybe we could buy the argument from them, but it is that while Spain has reduced its emissions by a small 16% in ten years, China has multiplied its CO2 emissions by 300 %. What makes no sense is that you, together with the Brussels bureaucrats, come to Spain to ruin the Spanish, to ruin our industry, and to force us to pay the prices of the record light of all history. Meanwhile, they are leaving the quick way for China and India, which are, among others, the world's most polluting countries, to conquer the entire industry of this globalized market in which we live. That cannot be tolerated because you are subverting and destroying Spain's energy sovereignty. While France has 58 nuclear reactors, we buy them energy. If a nuclear reactor in France explodes or has an accident, will it not affect us in Spain? Of course I do. While you close thermal power plants in Spain - let's think about the central of La Felguera or the central of Soto de la Barca, with about a thousand people on the street - we buy the dirty energy from Morocco. Doesn't that energy produce CO2 and that CO2 has no impact on Spain? And now you come to open the door to expropriate hydroelectric power plants, power plants that do not consume, power plants - we have the example of the River Navia - that with the same drop of water generates energy three times, one of the most efficient energies in Spain. You want to expropriate with the excuse to lower prices. What are they gonna do when they expropriate them? Shut down those power stations? Less energy, more cost. What are you going to do if you don't, manage them yourself? Either they change the pricing system or there's not going to be a way to lower the price either. In short, the only one proposing real alternatives is VOX. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u99	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u100	You have left us alone because we are the only ones who propose real alternatives, alternatives to really reduce the cost of light to all Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I will allow myself to read to you a few lines: the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge will develop within three months a mechanism to limit the overpayment that non-carbon technologies can receive as a result of the incorporation of the CO2 price into the electricity wholesale market prices by the electricity technologies. And it goes on: This dampened the pernicious effects of extreme volatility and speculative practices on CO2 prices to mitigate those that have come to call windfall profit, benefits from or fallen benefits from the sky, which can generate technologies that do not need CO2 emissions. Of course, listening to Mr Gago's speech, I understand that this seems to you to be interventionist, Bolivarian, Bolshevik, but this is from the People's Party. [[Show a document]] This was recorded, as the Vice-President said earlier, on 26 May: an amendment to a royal decree. I understand that that day seemed very important to them to have a mechanism to reduce CO2 compensation and no longer today; but, well, we are already used to it. This incongruity of yours is neither new nor strange. They also feel it is important to lower the VAT on electricity or suspend the tax on electricity production, but then, when this comes to this House, they do not vote for it; they did so in July. Their political emergencies seem much more important to them than the needs of the citizenry, don't they? Today you bring here a complete amendment to a very necessary law, so much so that you yourselves stoned; a law that will serve to lower the bill of light for all consumers. VOX, on the other hand, withdrew its own amendment to the whole. You must think that the PP's is better, so you already qualify yourself and so today I won't have to waste time with them. Look, the CO2 rights market is very important, because it allows us to control the amount of emissions by helping in a task as important, as urgent, as essential, as decarbonisation, but in the electricity market this makes some installations that are already amortized are receiving extraordinary benefits by unfairly internalizing these CO2 costs, and these benefits come directly out of the citizens' pocket and go directly to the dividend of large companies. This law serves to correct this situation, and it also does so by ensuring the reasonable profitability of these power stations and by maintaining the necessary signals for further progress in decarbonization. However, the People's Party brings an amendment to the whole that has nothing to do with what this law says. What they do is bring us back their fetish energy initiative. I used to say that on 26 May they tabled an amendment expressly asking for what this law does, but the day before, on 25 May, we discussed in this House a proposal for a law presented by the People's Party, and it was the same text, the same one, point by point and coma by coma. I thank Mr Gago - who is not here now - for saying that she was brought in six times, because I had already lost count. We discuss it six or seven times in a few months. They have brought it as a proposal for a law, as a motion, as a non-legislative proposal in three different committees - I have had the opportunity to discuss it with Mr Mariscal, with Mr Requena and with Mr Gago - and, if that were not enough, today they bring it as an amendment to the whole of a law that has nothing to do with what he proposes, nothing, absolutely nothing. It would have been understandable for them to bring this amendment to the national sustainability fund as a whole, because it kept a little bit more of a relationship, but, well, it must be that they were passed the date and did not arrive. What they have done has been to bring it as amendments to the joint text: amendment one, this complete text, unchanged; amendment two, deletion of all the other articles. Be a little serious, be a little serious. I think you can stop this now, leave this text alone, get us out of this day of the marmot you're trying to keep us on. Really, I told you last time, do you bring him in so many times to see if anyone got the wrong thing by voting and coming forward? Since we have this text, let's see what they propose. They insist, insist and insist that everything is paid for from the general budgets, everything. At the same time, in this and other initiatives, they call for as many taxes to be lowered as possible or even eliminated. I wonder: If you have to pay more from the general budgets and, at the same time, you have to enter less with taxes, what do you propose? What do you want? I guess all they know how to do is cut. In addition, cut into social policies and cut into rights, because it's the only thing they do and it's where they'll never find us, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. [[Applauds]] In this amendment to your totality, in this proposal in which you do not at all talk about the content of the CO2 compensation law not issued, they simply intend to transfer, as I said, all the costs of the electricity system to the general budgets, and say - Mr Mariscal said this morning in another debate - that the government pays them instead of the citizens. But you know how the State General Budgets work, don't you? Sometimes they make me doubt. I will try to be very clear, very explanatory, so that everyone understands it, so that you can understand it even. So, rounding up, so that we can understand, for each euro that the families of this country pay in regulated positions in their invoices, the companies are paying, roughly, another euro With their proposal to transfer all those costs to the general budgets what it proposes is that for each euro that the companies pay the families pay five euros This is their proposal, it is. [[shows a euro coin in one hand]] [[shows one euro coin in the other hand]] [[shows a euro coin in one hand]] [[shows a five-euro note in the other hand]] Are they trying to stop all the measures that lower the bill and propose this? Is this your proposal? Really? I just have one thing to ask you: Who are you defending? And more importantly, who are they trying to deceive? I'm telling you, they don't cheat on anyone anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, in order to recognize the character of a customary and traditional court at the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela and Peoples of its Framework. [[Alicante/Alacant]] As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 16 hours.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u105	We continue with the following item on the agenda: Discussion of the entire democratic memory bill. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has called for this bill to be enacted. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendments as a whole. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u106	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to present the democratic memory bill which, as you know, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. I also take this speaking time to thank my predecessor's work in the ministry, Carmen Calvo, who devoted so much effort and so much work to this project. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, objects have memory. I am not referring only to the monuments and museums that keep the memory of societies, of civilizations, of times; I am referring above all to the objects that condense the memory of a person or of a family. Two years ago, the excavation team that was investigating a pit in Cevico de la Torre, Palencia, found a surprising object: a rattlesnake. The researchers were surprised that an object so linked to joy and life was found in a place so marked by hatred and pain, and wanted to know the history of that object. That rattlesnake turned out to be the last thing Catalina Muñoz took when she was taken from her house; a house she never returned to. It belonged to his son Martín, who in 1936 was nine months old. The memory of objects, ladies and gentlemen, is so powerful that in just a moment it can evoke whole lives. You can return us, even for a moment, to the people who are no longer there. Martin was never able to meet his mother, but he recovered that rattlesnake, eighty-three years later, which allowed him to meet her again. It allowed him to rescue her, as if the memory contained in her sonager was the intimate form of justice and reparation in her case. In Spain we have the fortune of having filmmakers who have reflected the history of thousands of people and families hit by the Civil War and the dictatorship. Recently Pedro Almodóvar has taken to the cinema precisely the story that I have just told them; Parallel Mothers is the film - a few days ago I could see it in Barcelona - that tells the story that I have just told them. It has an impressive realism the need that many families and people have to recover the remains of their loved ones. Unfortunately, this case is not exceptional, it is very common. While we are here debating, there are so many people in your house watching an object or photograph that contains a contradictory memory: they evoke an irreparable loss and, at the same time, they keep people to whom they remember safely from forgetting. Our duty, ladies and gentlemen, is that that evocative and restorative power that has memories also extends to the laws. That is natural and necessary in an advanced democracy like ours and that is the ultimate goal of this law, designed especially for people. The draft law on democratic memory presented to you is based on three pillars that make sense and make it possible to understand in its full dimension the objectives and the importance of their regulation. First, the project is based on democratic values: harmony, coexistence, political pluralism, the defence of human rights, equality between men and women, and the culture of peace. Secondly, it is anchored in the four fundamental principles of international humanitarian law: truth, justice, reparation and duty of memory as a guarantee of non-repetition. Moreover, with this law Spain will be located where, with the countries of our environment, the countries that have suffered dictatorships like ours and that have homologable laws to which I present you all today. [[Applauds]] It is a law that puts the victims, the victims of the 1936 coup d'état, the victims of the Civil War and the victims of the dictatorship, at the centre of all the victims; victims of different ideologies that suffered that black stage of our history. This law keeps his memory alive and seeks to morally repair his families. We are therefore taking a step further towards the improvement of our democracy. This is recognized by the statement of reasons for the rule, which proclaims that the conquest and consolidation of our constitutional framework has been the most significant historical achievement of Spanish society and defines the Transition as the basis of the era of greater splendor and greater prosperity that our country has experienced. The commitment of this law to the values of the Transition and the Constitution is indisputable, and that is precisely why we must continue to deepen those values. We need to update that commitment, and we need to do so with the legal possibilities of every time. Our transition was exemplary, it was done in an orderly manner in a very concrete historical, political and social context, but if we want to maintain the value and prestige of that process, we are now obliged to align with current international standards. It is necessary to promote and strengthen democratic memory policies in order to neutralize the forgetfulness and avoid the repetition of the most tragic episodes that our country has suffered. With the advent of democracy, the process of reparation, justice and forgiveness began. However, with the turn of the century, the memorial movement revealed the reality of thousands of Spanish families who continue to live and suffer in silence; a reality that had not been among the priorities of the first stage of our democracy. The Historical Memory Act of 2007 was one before and one after, addressed for the first time public policies in the field of democratic memory and gave a first democratic response to that void. The project that we are now presenting gives continuity to that law, and it does so by introducing improvements that are necessary. It responds to the requests of the memorialist associations, includes the recommendations of the international human rights agencies and also captures the contributions of the autonomous norms and political groups that we have received in recent years. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we work together on a text that is new, that is not a modification of the previous law, and that therefore allows us to build among all. It is a text with which we want to take a step forward, with which we want to settle a debt of democracy with our past and promote a discourse based on the defence of peace, pluralism and the condemnation of all forms of political totalitarianism. We too often hear that any initiative linked to the memory reopens wounds, and I have to tell you that I think it is exactly the opposite. It is a law that seeks to close all the wounds once and for all, that tries to heal the pain that still drags many people who suffered the war or repression of the dictatorship or suffered it from their parents, grandparents, uncles, relatives. It is about calming down the damage that silence caused to thousands of broken families. We want to end the uncertainty about the whereabouts of loved ones or simply restore their honor. It is also about opening the files to document hundreds of personal episodes that are known, but what legal limitations of access have prevented them from being documented. The memory for this Government is a state policy, and all political forces, all of them, should understand that condemning the dictatorship and honouring the victims is not ideology, it is justice, it is democracy. [[Applauds]] Today, the events that triggered a war that marked the destiny of the twentieth century in Spain are indisputable. That is why we put for the first time in a law the condemnation and repudiation of the coup d'état of 18 July 1936. [[Applauds]] It will be a way of reaffirming our democracy and of ceasing to be an anomaly in the European countries in our environment, because for many years now countries in our environment which have also suffered dictatorships, which have suffered Nazism, which have suffered fascism, have laws which we are presenting today in this House. It is also an indisputable fact, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is still the country of Europe with the most missing people buried in mass graves, and when the remains are exhumanized and returned to their families, many people tell us that they can now die peacefully. That was the case with Ascension Mendieta. His father's only crime was to be the leader of UGT in his village. They took him away and he never came home. Ascension lived decades of silence waiting and before he died he had the fortune to fulfill the desire to recover his father's remains. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are compatriots who continue to wait for that moment, who have been suffering for eight decades, who have been waiting for it for eighty years because they have not been able to give a decent burial to their loved ones, and that suffering, that uncertainty has often also moved their descendants, their children, their nephews, their grandchildren. The State has to help them more than it has done so far, without any doubt. Another undisputed issue is the oblivion of the role of women in war and in the dictatorship. Therefore, the Government's proposal in this bill is to devote specific attention to women, who occupy a cross-cutting and very unique place throughout the law. Women played a very prominent role as active agents in the conquest of rights and freedoms that we all enjoy today. The law also provides for recognition of the double and specific repression suffered by many women simply and plainly by being so. [[Applauds]] Similarly, the project recognizes and strengthens the active role of the memorial movement in keeping the memory alive on the public agenda and on the social agenda of our country. It is also indisputable - we understand this from the government and I am sure that the democratic forces of this House will also understand - the incompatibility of democracy with the exaltation of the 1936 coup and the post-war dictatorship. It is no longer possible in public space to exalt its leaders or to discredit, humiliate or scorn the victims of war and dictatorship. It is also indisputable that the remains of the 1936 coupts cannot continue in pre-eminent places of public access other than cemeteries. [[Applauds]] An advanced democracy like ours cannot be allowed acts of exaltation or exaltation of human rights violations committed during the war or during the dictatorship. It is also indisputable to consider that all those who one day discovered that being babies were abducted and adopted without the free consent of their biological parents. [[Applauds]] Put yourself on your skin for a moment and tell us if we don't have the obligation to do something with all those victims of the dictatorship as well. These and many other situations deserve and justify a law that honors victims and meets their demands according to commonly accepted international parameters. I would like to point out, as you can imagine, that this is a very thoughtful and hard-working project, with great historical and legal rigour and with a fundamental role of the Secretariat of State for Democratic Memory, but it is also a project flexible enough to accept the amendments and incorporate the improvements that you all have to incorporate and propose during the parliamentary process. He then transferred some of the most relevant aspects of the law that I present to you. First, it highlights the express assumption of State leadership in the search for and identification of missing persons and the impulse to exhumations, responding to the legitimate demands of families that are not yet aware of the whereabouts of the remains of their loved ones. This search must be carried out by the General Administration of the State, without prejudice to the powers of other administrations. It is a collaborative process of collective dignity. Our country can no longer afford to have unworthy burials in its coves. [[Applauds]] Who can oppose locating, identifying and handing over the remains of a victim to their family members? Who can object to a daughter recovering the remains of her loved ones, her grandparents? It is not, ladies and gentlemen, a question of ideology, it is a question of justice, a question of democracy, a question of humanity and reparation. [[Applauds]] The law also provides for the creation of resources and institutions of indisputable value for their purposes. The Office of the Public Prosecutor for Human Rights and Democratic Memory is established in the Office of the Attorney General of the State, with different functions of investigation, coordination and conduct of investigations. A national DNA bank of victims of war and dictatorship is established. A register and census of victims is established, responding to the fragmentation and dispersion of information that we currently have available and creating a stable structure for the participation of the memorial movement through the council of democratic memory. We created two official days of memory, on 31 October, for the memory and tribute to all the victims, and on 8 May, for the memory and tribute of the people who went into exile. I want to tell you that the law does not differentiate between victims, I want to tell you that it does not discriminate against one another, I want to tell you that what we want is for all the victims of the dictatorship, all the victims of the war, all the victims of the coup to feel that this law honors them. We created a public census of all the victims of the war and also of all those who died in combat during the war. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u108	It includes a thorough regulation of the alleged anti-democratic memory, be it symbols, places, decorations, noble titles, associations or foundations that still advocate Francoism today. In addition, with the law we make significant progress in the documentary heritage, in order to protect documents and facilitate access to these funds and public archives; we address the declaration and regulation of commemorative functions of the places of memory, and, finally, we modify the regime of the monumental complex of the Valley of the Fallen as a step before their resignation. All these predictions are articulated around the four principles of international humanitarian law: truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. It is also an indisputable fact, ladies and gentlemen, that for forty years selective silence was a state policy. Silence and oblivion for the victims of the losing side, while the victims of the winners were repaired economically and morally and honored in all the peoples of Spain; a selective oblivion based on a biased interpretation of history. The story on the part of the victims was eliminated and that memory has become a ballast for several generations. As Mario Benedetti wrote, forgetfulness is full of memory. The victims of the dictatorship never forgot, because no one knows or can forget, even if they want, those memories. Neither helplessness nor pain are eliminated, and thousands of compatriots have clinged to the portraits of their parents, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers so as not to lose hope of finding them. I would like to point out that this project is also based on the concept of restorative justice, expressly guaranteeing the right to the truth of victims and of society in general, the right to investigate human rights violations and the right to judicial truth through a procedure of voluntary jurisdiction. It does not focus on punitive justice or economic redress, but it is true that, until December 2020, the last one completed, reparations have been made to more than 600 000 beneficiaries, for an overall amount of more than EUR 22 billion. Today more than 18,000 people still perceive economic reparation. Our law also advances the need for an audit, an inventory of seizures, spoiled property, paper money and sanctions imposed on individuals as a result of political responsibilities. In any case, we try with this rule to obtain moral reparation for all victims and the recognition of the truth. No one can fear the truth and the right to know it. As much as you are looking for it, ladies and gentlemen, you will not find in the text of this project an ideological account or a rereading of the past or a imposition by law of a single version or a single story; it is exactly the opposite. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: No, what's going on!]] We want to create the channels and enable mechanisms for that complete truth, which for forty years was omitted, to be known. As the poet Marcos Ana has said so many times, it is a matter of passing the page, but having read me before. Finally, the duty of memory as a guarantee of non-repetition is a firm commitment to the pedagogy of never again, which has become an ethical imperative for advanced democracies like ours. Therefore, in line with the Constitution and international standards, the text provides for measures in the field of education and teacher training for pedagogical purposes. Consolidating a shared democratic memory, based on principles of international law, based on the democratic and constitutional values of our country is a pillar in any modern democracy. We understand that the recovery, safeguarding and dissemination of memory are essential in our democracy and we want to promote cohesion and solidarity between generations. It is a commitment today and it is a commitment to the future; it defends democracy and defends fundamental rights as a backbone of our Constitution. The project overcomes confrontation and deactivates hatred. It is a law of concord and for concord; it is a law inspired by principles of international law and constitutional values and fundamental rights. Memory, ladies and gentlemen, is Chaves Nogales; also Clara Campoamor, and the Machado brothers, the two, and Max Aub, and Lorca and the Thirteen Roses. [[Prolonged applause]] Memory is looking through The Tragaluz, by Antonio Buero Vallejo, our past and our present. Memories are those religious who suffered violence during the war and also anti-Franquist fighters who suffered torture in police stations and prisons; they are women who set up the feminist movement; they are homosexuals, lesbians, transsexuals who led the first demonstrations in defense of their rights. The memory is Madariaga and Tuñón de Lara. The memory is the Guernica of Picasso and also the Christ of Saint John of the Cross, of Salvador Dalí. It is, in short, memory as we understand it, as the draft law understands it; The embrace, of John Genovese, that is memory. [[Applauds]] Spanish democracy is coexistence in peace and freedom, coexistence of 47 million Spaniards who think differently and live differently. And the Government has a responsibility to try to reach agreements with everyone as we have done well today. It is not a law against anyone; it is a law of all and for all. It is a law that reaffirms the commitment to our democracy and rejects a black historical period that we must overcome once and for all. That is why we believe that no democratic force, ladies and gentlemen, can oppose a text that approves the developed countries of our environment and pays tribute to the victims of the dictatorship and the war. I have also mentioned that it is a flexible project, but let me make one observation: what is not flexible is the time that many victims have; we must ensure that all those who are still among us today can see the dream of recovering the remains of their loved ones fulfilled. Many of you will be demanding in your positions and from the government I already announce that we will be flexible. We have to talk, we have to talk, we have to agree. But when you have to vote today and in the period of amendments be aware that there are people who no longer have so much time, that this law is an imperative for us, it is an almost moral obligation to fulfill a dream of so many people who have been victims of Francoism. Let us honour the past so that it will never again be forgotten; let us take a step forward to build a better democracy, a better Spain. It is a law for reunion and to strengthen the foundations of future coexistence in peace and freedom, a law that makes us better as a country. At the beginning of my intervention I wanted to refer to the evocative and restorative power of memory. Unfortunately, a law itself is not capable of repairing all the pain caused by the coup d'état, the war and the dictatorship, but what can be done by a law is that the memory of its loved ones is not limited to the family sphere, that is a public policy, that remains in the collective memory, that our democracy remembers them and honors them. Just two years ago a simple sonarist served as a meeting between a mother and a son who never came to know each other. If such a small object could achieve something so great, why can this law not achieve reparation for thousands of victims? [[Applauds]] These Courts, ladies and gentlemen, have an obligation to make the Spanish society meet again and those who have been forgotten feel that they are being repaired by a rule that your legitimate representatives - who are you - dictate and approve. We want to share this with all - I insist, with all - the victims of that black period of our history. It's in your hand, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Three amendments have been tabled to this bill in full, two of which are amendments to the full refund and one is an amendment to the entire alternative text. For the defence of the amendments tabled, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor by the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is not a normal amendment, it is an amendment in self-defence; in self-defence of the victims, of the country that they stole from them, of the values that they have always sworn to defend, of the memorialist entities, which have never surrendered, had a stellation or had a republican tricolor, and, above all, of the Member who has always honored them and who has always represented them. A Member who fourteen years ago - fourteen - has already broken his face, literally alone - for many of the things that I will defend here today. Of course, I'm talking about Joan Tardá. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious that you say that you are in a hurry when it has taken fourteen years to resubmit such a law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to address the Government here today, nor am I going to address a minister, nor am I going to address a party, I am going to address everyone and all the anti-fascists in this House today, they are militias, think as they think and vote for those who vote. All those and those antifascists know for sure that this country has a historical debt with truth and forgiveness; with truth and forgiveness. Because if your country, if your patriotism is opposed to truth and forgiveness, you don't defend a country, you don't defend a patriotism, you don't defend a place to live with the other, you defend a ring to break your face with the other. And that's the story for the right and the right, an arsenal with which to attack the other. Do you know why the right and the right don't want to pass? Because it embarrasses them; it makes sense. [[Applauds]] But what does the left want? What does the left want in this country as far as historical memory is concerned, as far as democratic memory is concerned? Positioning or repairing? Let's see. Ladies and gentlemen, anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a democratic memory law that is incapable - incapable - of calling illegal a regime that has emerged from a coup d'état? Simple, eh?, of first antifascism: declaring illegal a regime emerged from a coup d'état. At the moment they remain null and illegitimate; a regime that in 1946 the UN has already declared a fascist. [[pointing to the banks on the left]] [[pointing to the banks on the right]] Do you believe, I repeat, that the most progressive government in the history of a democratic regime does not have the right to declare illegal a regime declared fascist seventy-six years ago by the United Nations? What can be the motive, beyond cowardice? Which one? Ladies and gentlemen anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a law of memory that would speak - because it speaks - of the recognition and reparation of the victims, but - careful! - without fixing a single mechanism or quantity of actual recognition and reparation of those victims? Would you vote for a law of memory that did not set a single compensation, nor one, or that did not open the door to a single property claim of the same? And you know why I don't fix it? Do you know why you're not talking about any compensation? Because it's very good to give a diploma to the granddaughter of a buried or badly buried murdered in a gutter. A diploma is very good; now, return the house, money or land that he stole from his grandfather a fascist ninety years ago, no longer, because it is worth money. We are in a hurry, but it is worth money And for those who say yes, that it would be very good, but that there is no money, I want to remember that the compensations to the victims of Nazism in Germany were paid voluntarily by companies that collaborated with fascism and that the German democratic government published on a list, public!, and the companies 'voluntarily' collaborated in the compensations. How many Spanish companies - current, huh? - were made of gold during the franchise? How many proms, presidents of football clubs some of them, were made of gold during the franchise? How many? Would any of these companies not be able to pay voluntarily if the government were once again to publish their names? [[laughs]] I think so. Ladies and gentlemen anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a law of memory that creates a Chamber Prosecutor's Office - because it creates it, it is true; the cause - specific that you can investigate, but cannot denounce? Investigate yes, but report no. What's a courtroom prosecutor who can investigate and can't report? A private detective, isn't it? What's the point? Postureo, one more time. In fact, they talk about voluntary responsibility, that there has to be a voluntary responsibility on the part of criminals, torturers, in a country where Billy the Child walked with medals until he died. Really, anti-fascist ladies of this House, does it not embarrass you that in this country the heirs of the victims of Francoism had to go to Argentina to complain? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Does it not embarrass you that in this country you can be brought before a court of war criminal of the Chilean or Argentine dictatorship and not Spanish? Of course, it is that in fact some of the criminals of the Franco dictatorship have a bust, a painting or a room in this house. You speak, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of the recognition of the victims. Do you know how the victims are really recognized? Judging - judging - his executioners, from the commissioner who tortured in the basement of a police station such as Via Laietana to the company that hired Republicans as slave labor. That's how the victims are repaired. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a law of memory that does not courageously and unequivocally recognize or repair the damage caused to the Catalan, Basque or Galician language and culture? A country that does not recognize its diversity simply does not deserve it and is not a country, it is a chain of assembly of all and all equals in which the right commands and the left silent. [[Applauds]] Ladies anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a law of memory that does not explicitly mean the memory of all those deported to Nazi concentration camps? Stateless called them Francoism and stateless calls them the far right these days. Many of you, who feel very Spanish, but also very left-wing, are denied their homeland, their homeland, their right and the far right ninety years later. [[Applauds]] Ladies anti-fascists in this House, would you vote for a law of memory that would not devote a single line, or a single, to condemning the responsibility of the Catholic Church during the Franco dictatorship - not of the base, of the dome? The regime qualified itself as a national and a Catholic; a national and a Catholic. Ladies anti-fascists in this House, in short, would you really vote for a memory law without memory? Really? They're going to do it because they have to, but it's a shame; fourteen years later it's a shame. The German Social Democrats and Christian Democrats kneeled in front of the doors of Auschwitz asking for forgiveness. We don't ask them that much. [[Rumors]] I mean, Auschwitz and the VOX guys are on top of each other.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u111	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u112	We don't ask them that much. Do you know when it's more important to apologize? When its effects are prolonged in the present, and there are 52 Members of the extreme right here, it is quite present. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is not why we are so hard, the question is why you are so cowardly. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u113	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u114	Thank you, Madam President. The theologians say that God does not even have the capacity to change the past, to make what happened never happened. For this reason, the despots of all time have always felt the temptation to rewrite history - that is to change the past and raise them above God -: from that Chinese emperor who burned all the ancient books because they did not contain his name, to Stalin, who made erase from the successive editions of the Soviet Encyclopedia the photos of the characters who were shooting, which disappear from the old photos of the revolution. Setting by decree a partisan interpretation of history and imposing on society as a whole using the coercive instruments of the State is the same as despots. In free countries, political power does not arrogate historical omniscience, but allows citizens to freely reach their own conclusions on historical issues from their own readings, their own experiences, conversations. And this is not just us, said, for example, among many, leftist historian Santos Juliá in 2006 - and I quote textually -: imposing a historical memory is the same as authoritarian regimes or totalitarian utopias. The draft law that we are debating today abolishes in practice freedom of association, as it threatens with the dissolution to those associations that do not share the historical vision of the Government, for example, the Fundación Santa Cruz del Valle de los Caídos; it abolishes in practice religious freedom, as it opens the door to the possible expulsion of the Benedictines from the valley, it suppresses freedom of assembly, freedom of chair and freedom of expression, since it turns the apologia of Francoism practically into a crime of thought. In addition, this law establishes channels for a constant historical indoctrination of the population or society, channels such as a four-year democratic memory plan - I do not know why they have not put in place a five-year plan, such as a wink at the good old Soviet times - Article 12; the impregnation of all school programmes, provided for in Article 44.1; the impregnation of teacher training plans, Article 44.2; the continuing training plans of the General Administration of the State, Article 47, and even the creation of a democratic memory council in Article 57, which recalls the sinister Ministry of Truth of 1984 in Orwell. [[applause]] Now 1984 is one of those dystopic novels that everyone quotes, but very few people have read; I would swear that especially in the left sector of the House very few have read it. [[Applauds]] The mission of the Ministry of Truth - let us recall - was to constantly rewrite the past according to the political needs of the present. Let us remember The motto: who controls the present, controls the past, and who controls the past, the interpretation of the past, controls the future. Well, this is precisely in this type of law: to cement in a sectarian, manic, misrepresentation of recent history the eternal moral supremacy of the left. [[Applauds]] These laws seek to burn into the minds of the Spaniards the equation according to which the left is and will always be synonymous with democracy and freedom, and the right is synonymous with fascism and repression. In reality, it is not so; in reality, the essence of the left is social antagonism, dividing society into groups and confronting them with one another: rich against the poor, men against women, white against black. And in this law it is about reopening the old, painful, division of the Spanish between red and blue. [[Applauds]] A division that had already been overcome at the social level in families and in the streets some twenty years after the end of our Civil War and that was institutionally overcome in our Transition, a Transition in which both sides made generous concessions. The Franchise Courts disbanded themselves with remarkable heights of vision to make political reform possible in 1976 and also the left made concessions such as the acceptance of the monarchy or the red flag. Unfortunately, that magnanimity did not last long; we know that the left is willing to take Franco's ghost every time he sees his continuity in power threatened. He did so already in 1996, in that famous doberman campaign, as we remember the older ones, and, even more so, with the approval of the first Historical Memory Law by Zapatero in 2007. And always, and I regret to say so, with the trembling acquiescence of the People's Party, which is willing to do anything so long as the left does not call it a fascist. [[applause]] In 2002, with Aznar's absolute majority, this Congress approved the condemnation of the coup d'état of 18 July 1936, but not of the coup d'état of October 1934, which was a necessary condition and led unfailingly to the other. [[Applauds]] In this way, the PP assumed and endorsed the moral asymmetry that at all times tries to establish the left with such laws. And, of course, with the absolute majority of Rajoy, the Zapatero Historical Memory Law was not repealed either. As it will soon be illegal to express a different historical view from that of the Government, it took my last opportunity to explain our vision a little bit. Lords and Minister Bolaños, the Second Republic was not that wonderful democracy that you seek to fable, the Second Republic suffered from the beginning of a sectarian spirit of table rasa and social engineering that is reflected in those famous phrases of Azaña: 'Spain has ceased to be Catholic' or the Republic will consist of 'a vast company of demolitions'. Vast with grapes, although I could also have served with be. [[Applauds]] The advent, the arrival of the Republic was celebrated with a massive burning of churches, libraries and works of art on May 10, 1931, before which the Provisional Government of the Republic did not move a finger to prevent it. The Second Republic expelled religious orders, banned Catholic education, adopted a Law on Defense of the Republic that made exiles possible without trial and ordered several of them, the kidnapping of newspapers - in the Second Republic they closed and kidnapped more newspapers than in the entire Franco regime - and other equally anti-democratic measures. The statement of reasons for the law they bring us today contains a blushing vision of recent Spanish history - blushing by manichea -. I do not have time, but I quote a single fragment - textual -: Throughout the whole 19th century and much of the 20th crowd of Spaniards gave their lives for the establishment of a democratic system in our country, but those democratic periods were abruptly interrupted by those who intended to move our country away from more inclusive and tolerant processes. I repeat, light and darkness; democracy and fascism; the left and the right. Among many other things, what a lack of respect to the left of the 1930s. Most leftists of the 1930s proclaimed to those who would like to hear that they did not fight for democracy, they fought for socialism. [[Applauds]] And I am not referring only to the extreme anarchist left, who constantly harassed the Republic with terrorist attacks, such as the bomb on the Seville-Barcelona train on 10 December 1933, in response to the victory of the right in the elections. I am not just referring to anarchism, I am referring to the Socialist Party, in which the Bolshevikization faction of Largo Caballero prevailed, unfortunately, over the moderate faction of Julián Besteiro. Here are some statements from Largo Caballero. In Europe cinema, January 22, 1936: If the right-wings do not let themselves be defeated in the polls, we will have to beat them by other means until the red flag of socialism waves in the building you want. On October 1, 1933 he said: Our party is revolutionary and believes that this regime must disappear - the Republic must disappear, said the leader of the PSOE, already in 1933-. If they do not allow us to conquer power under the Constitution, we will have to conquer it in another way. And in the 1936 election campaign: I want to tell the right that if they succeed we will have to go to the declared civil war. [[Applauds]] This was said by the leader of the Socialist Party and President of the Government of the Republic in 1936-37. Gentlemen, the radicalisation of the Socialist Party was the main cause of the Civil War and they would have to apologize for it. [[Applauds]] This doctrine, the cavalry doctrine of respecting the result of the ballot box only if it was propitious to them, was, as you know, perhaps not here, bloodyly applied in October 1934, the famous rebellion against the previous electoral victory of the right wing in November 1933. That rebellion, which cost a thousand four hundred dead not only in Asturias, was called by Gerald Brenan the first battle of the Civil War and Salvador de Madariaga, whom the minister quoted a moment ago with notorious cynicism, said that the left had lost any moral authority to condemn the right-wing rebellion in July 1936, after having starred in the October 1934 coup. Well, in the spring of 1936, after a very dubious election, read the book of Álvarez Tardío, the radical left, with the complicity or passivity of the central left government, triggered a wave of political violence on the streets with an average of three deaths a day, occupations of farms, burning churches and convents, assaults on travelers to make them pay the revolutionary tax and take the street by militias of parties and unions in such a way that the spring of 1936 could not be said to already exist a rule of law in Spain. And that was not just said by the rebel side, it was said by notorious characters from the third Spain, people like Clara Campoamor, in a book published in France in 1937, people like Menéndez Pidal, like Miguel de Unamuno, like Gregorio Marañón, like Ortega and Gasset, like Pérez de Ayala. All of them, by the way, with the exception of Unamuno, fled Spain to save life, but did not flee from Franco, fled from the Popular Front militias. [[Applauds]] The big lie you're trying to bring to the consciences is that the left fought for democracy in the 1930s. It's not true, it's not true. The illustrious Republican historian Sánchez-Albornoz said: If we had won the war we would have established communism in Spain. If the Popular Front had won in the Civil War, the result would not have been a democracy, the result would have been a Soviet regime. But the most unbearable thing about this law is the hierarchy of the dead: the first dead, the second dead. It is not true that all victims are treated equally. I don't have time to prove it, it comes from the temporary restraint, which starts, curiously, from July 18, 1936, why not the previous five years, from 1931 to 1936, when political violence took about three thousand lives and was starred, most of them, by the left?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u115	Mr. Contreras, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u116	This means that García Lorca will be honored, but not Ramiro de Maeztu; those shot by Yagüe will be honored, but not the approximately sixty thousand people shot in the republican area, simply because they are right-wing or Catholic.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u117	Mr. Contreras, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u118	You can honor the Thirteen Roses, we have them on all televisions all the time, but you can't honor Somiedo's nurses, I don't know if they've heard of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Contreras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u120	These three nurses, volunteers, phalangists, who were arrested by the militiamen, tortured and raped for a whole night and shot at dawn. [[shows a photograph]] [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Long live Spain! Long live!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u121	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Concordia was possible; in this sentence the greatness of the figure of President Adolfo Suárez is condensed, who has already transcended history by his sense of state, his true patriotism and his breadth of vision. There is a huge chasm between those who made the Transition possible and those who now govern us, whose obtuse vision is nothing but power even at the cost of energizing the coexistence of those who led it; all our admiration and recognition of the architects of the Transition, a style of government based on political coexistence, who worked tirelessly for the understanding among the Spaniards in a Spain still grieved by the tragedy of war and painful by a long dictatorship. What many wanted tied and well bound, others knew how to untie it, as is so masterfully described in Fernández Miranda's biography, entitled What the King has asked of me. The Transitional Government and those involved in this great enterprise managed to get the two sides that faced each other in the trenches to meet and forgive each other after decades of political resentment and hatred, and embrace each other, and understand that Spain and the Spanish accord is above personal and partisan interests, and to make up for differences in order to achieve a future of progress, well-being, freedom and democracy. [[Applauds]] The talent of so many politicians of all ideology of the time that followed Franco's death, with the indispensable contest of all the Spanish people, led to the pact that illuminated the 1978 Constitution; a model constitution, which allowed us to move from the dictatorship to democracy, with the firm belief that in order to achieve a stable coexistence that would lead us to reach the highest levels of progress, well-being and freedom it was necessary to overcome, that we should not forget, past grudges with generosity, with mutual concessions and with renunciation of the service of a common objective: the Spaniards, the only important thing. That agreement, sought by all, not imposed by any ruler, has been a collective success that has persisted in time and that we, the People's Party, continue to claim. The Spain of the 21st century, the real Spain has nothing to do with what we have been drawn today in this rostrum. Have we really not learned anything at all? In the same Chamber there were 149 deputies killed by one or the other of the two Spains who are now committed to re-editing, 77 murdered in the rear of one side and 72 murdered in the rear of the other, according to historian Ruiz Manjón. After what you heard this morning, it is clear that you have not learned the lesson of those dead, of all the dead. I wish his executioners had at least a slight memory of what it means to be able to live in a democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the process that led to this gigantic historical horror, this collective failure, this shipwreck that, in the words of Julián Marías, brought about the Civil War was the division of the social body through continuous interaction exercised from the extremes; that is precisely what this project seeks, as we have been able to hear, once again the attraction of the extremes to provoke the rupture, and in that enterprise do not count on the People's Party, Minister. In Spain still at risk for a terrible global pandemic and immersed in an unprecedented economic, social and institutional crisis, the Government of the nation, unable to solve the current problems, the real and permanent problems of the Spaniards, stirs up the spirit of civil war, reopening wounds and removing past sufferings, calling for confrontation between compatriots, seeking the perpetuation of the spirit of a war that ended, thank God, eighty-two years ago, trying to impose on history its ideological narrative. [[Applauds]] It is a rule that sums up the dark desire to energize the exemplary process of concord and reconciliation between Spaniards that the Transition constituted, a luminous reference of our history at a global level; a project that looks to the past, relegates the present and conditions a future of fronts and sides, that divides the Spaniards into good and bad, according to the ideological parameters, that is, of the Government; an inappropriate law whose only purpose is to rewrite our recent history and put it at the service of President Sánchez, in his obsession with perpetuating himself in power at all costs, even at the cost of removing the most painful individual feelings, taking hold of the intimate and painful memories of those who suffered that tragedy in order to build a collective memory to their liking. Ladies and gentlemen, a uniform collective memory chained to a doctrine is a totalitarian memory. [[Applauds]] Well, after the harassment and destabilization of our institutions, the attacks on the separation of powers, the attacks on judicial independence and the more absolute contempt for the Legislative Power or the obscene sympathy with the enemies of the 1978 Constitution, it now touches on this self-centered, perverse and totalitarian route to try to end our exemplary Transition. But history matched him with his admired President Zapatero as the most harmful presidents of Spanish democracy. With this text the Government does not repair anything; on the contrary, it has missed an extraordinary opportunity to pay tribute to an exemplary generation who, after living and suffering directly from the Civil War, was able to directly overcome their differences, bury grudges and terrible tragedies, forgive and move on with the embrace of reconciliation. The legacy of harmony, peace and freedom of this generation that is already entering history and that, unfortunately, has suffered as no one the pandemic, which died alone, without being able to say goodbye to their loved ones, does not deserve a law that seeks to destroy precisely that legacy and re-edit the division and confrontation between compatriots. [[Applauds]] It is a Manichean bill, with a huge lack of historical and intellectual rigor, with the only claim to rewrite with thick stroke and sectarian the most painful stage of Spain during the twentieth century. With totalitarian impulses, the imposed norm replaces the factual truth of history, disregarding the free works of historians, seeking to root in the present generation a unique thought, an exclusive policy for those who resist their ideological impositions and form their own opinions in the scientific accounts of the very numerous treaties on civil conflict. Totalitarianism in a pure state. Beyond seeking to resolve the necessary and understandable search and exhumation of the bodies of the victims of the conflict and returning them to their families, it introduces inequalities even with the victims, with all. It is necessary to solve the problem of the pits. Yes, and there we are, but without using it as a source of funding for entities related to your party and left-wing unions as it has been happening so far. It is unacceptable that, fourteen years after the entry into force of the Historical Memory Act, this Government does not know the number of exhumed victims, as journalist and writer Pedro Corral observed on the Transparency Portal. Nor in the budget impact memory of the project have we been able to know the amounts that are going to be devoted to this purpose. This project entrusts the political power, the current government, to tell us all the Spaniards of plural Spain what we should think, what ideology is the politically correct, what manipulated history students should know and learn, what historical characters are creditors of public tribute, what victims are worthy of remembrance and tribute, and what are not. In short, an attempt to inoculate a collective memory to the dictate of the most radical government in the history of democracy. By the way, forgetting the victims of the supposedly anti-Franquist terrorists, in reality simple murderers of the most radical extreme left, of ETA and other terrorist movements and groups during the dictatorship. As at present they have also forgotten the 379 unsolved murders of ETA, to which this government has abandoned to the extent that the European Parliament has had to initiate an investigation. [[Applauds]] It is even allowed to shorten to the letter the period of this imposed memory forgetting that between 1931 and 1936 twenty-one states of emergency, twenty-three states of alarm and eighteen states of war occurred in a sectarian exercise of resignation of the republican regime. In the same vein, this project aims to turn our system into a leftist militant democracy, in which those who do not commune with it remain out, pointed out, persecuted and tainted by anti-democratics, when not directly from Francoists or fascists by blowing up the constitutional pact of 78. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister has said that this is a Spain with a democratic anomaly vis-à-vis European countries that have suffered from fascism and Nazism. Well, where are those who have suffered from communist dictatorships, as part of Germany, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia and so many others? That's what we forget. [[Applauds]] This law defends the enormous falsehood that the reconciliation that took place in the Transition was a pact based on oblivion, and nothing to see. In the historic debate of the Amnesty Law, of which today forty-four years are celebrated, whose session papers should be required to be read, José María Benegas, spokesman for the PSOE, who is not of the Sanchista party, said: Amnesty is the result of 'the will to bury a sad past for the History of Spain and to build another different..., overcoming the division that has suffered the Spanish people in the last forty years'. On behalf of the Communist Party, Marcelino Camacho spoke, saying: 'We want to close one stage; we want to open another. We, the Communists, who have so many wounds, who have suffered so much, have buried our dead and our grudges.' Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to recall the words of these two Members, to show the break that this draft is in itself a self-amendment by the Sanchista party to the spirit of the 1978 Constitution. As Rosell said, Sánchez's PSOE is considered the son of the war before the father of the Transition. Recently, he recalled our President Married: 'Never before had a government despised the legacy of our parents and grandparents, their reconciliation, their forgiveness, their embrace, and their effort to build a country in peace and harmony. They have preferred to re-open the scars, dig up the grudges and confront us to extract an immoral electoral revenue.' He is being told by the party in whose military ranks Fraga, Cisneros, Herrero de Miñon and Pérez-Llorca, four of the seven parents of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Well, therefore, in the face of this frentist law, we demand agreement, that of the Spanish people, and we reiterate to them: they desist from their totalitarian pretensions. For all this, we defend our amendment to the law of democratic memory in its entirety because it is a legal and historical misconception and represents a real memory of what was, with the contribution of all political parties, an exemplary Transition. As President Casado announced, we will pass a law of concord that will render ineffective the evil so-called laws of historical memory and serve to claim the Transition and reconciliation between the Spaniards, to abandon divisive propaganda and truly help families to find the remains of their loved ones. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of the Presidency. I support the two amendments to the whole calling for the return of this democratic memory bill, which, if adopted, would be another irresponsible tool for dividing the Spaniards into the hands of a government supported by those who promote territorial secessionism. It is a bill inspired by the sectarian coming from the two parties that make up the blue bank with its insistence on a tearing revisionism, broth of cultivation for social discord. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the conclusion of the dictatorship in 1975, the exemplary transition process led masterfully by King Juan Carlos I, with Adolfo Suárez cultivating meaningfully and sacrificially since the presidency, and with the greatness of political parties and personalities of rival ideological signs, who in favor of the best democratic values knew how to corner ancient and very painful fratricidal disputes, was successfully promoted the Constitution adopted in referendum in 1978, which served for society to face what ended up resulting in a period of growing prosperity, probably the best in the history of Spain. A great Catalan from the Republican Left of Catalonia had much to do with success, Josep Tarradellas, thirty-eight years in exile and not a single second of revenge. Mr Bolaños, this bill portrays the Government and those who are its partners in this House and unmistakably exhibit their anti-Spanishism. Without going any further, before yesterday, October 12, National Day, a date that recalls the historical fact of Hispanicity, promoted by Isabel and Fernando, the Catholic Kings, whose images preside over this Chamber and that if some depended on it would no longer be on that pedestal, that Hispanicity was tarnished and aggravated abroad while the Government, while promoting a revisionism to its measure and that of its partners, who portrayed it a few hours ago as an ephemeride of genocide, are the preferred interlocutors of Pedro Sánchez at the capitulation table. In short, I take as my own the text of the two amendments as a whole and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u125	For the same group, Mr García Adanero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth, Minister, is that if you came looking for agreement, you've come to terms with this law. It is clear that precisely concord has not succeeded, but it is that you did not seek concord, you sought what has happened, that is what you were looking for, because in the end they move very comfortable in the noise, in the snoring, in seeking to make clear the discrepancies that exist about a bill like this, because in the end they feel comfortable there. You feel comfortable when you are unable to carry out the usual electoral programme and, in the end, it is very easy to say: look at you, that the right comes. And that's what they think they're gonna get votes with. But that's getting more and more complicated. In addition, I will tell you that with this bill you say things that you know are not real. It's already being done, it's already looking for all the people who are in pits, you said it yourself, you're investing money in it. No one disagrees that you seek, that everyone can bury their loved ones, that they can know what happened to their loved ones. But that has nothing to do with the law, that's what the law says, but it doesn't need the law for that. You do what you do is to ideologize what is now a situation of grievances that may have some people, and you do it because you want the joke, because you want to look for this. If you seek consensus, you would not come to this Congress with 155 votes, you would speak before, you would look at what the groups think and, from there, you would try to reach a broad consensus, which was ultimately what happened in the Spanish Transition and the Spanish Constitution. After talking about many people, many people, that transition and consensus was achieved. You weren't looking for consensus, you were looking for a sham, you had a sham, you feel comfortable in the sham, but the sham will stop giving them votes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u127	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u128	Thank you, President. It seems significant that the Minister's intervention has focused primarily on the fascist repression of the immediate post-war period, because of course the regime went far beyond, until 1975, if not beyond, and demonstrates the continuity of this repression, of these power structures, with the regime that happened to it and in which we are still, the regime of 78. It also seems significant to me that the people who have fought the most for memory and against these abuses committed by the dictatorship had to go to Argentina to seek the justice that they have not found here, because of course to point out to those responsible for this repression did not mean to point out to some losers, to some poor devils who could be blamed for certain excesses, no, to point out to people as the first of the accused in the Argentinean lawsuit, Mr Martín Villa, who is at least a poor devil. He was a minister of the PP, held positions in Endesa - a very powerful electrical industry - and in other companies of the IBEX and, of course, had responsibilities in repression during the Transition. You do not mind killing, it was heard on the radio station during the repression of the events of the Sanfermines of 1978. These are the contradictions that the PSOE has, which, on the one hand, wants to legitimately honor its republican and anti-fascist people, but without touching the myth of the peaceful and model transition or touching a hair to which they had responsibilities in this repression. So, we want to tell you that, to make these balances, with us do not count. If this law does not have to serve for people like the one who have come to the Argentinean lawsuit to find the justice they legitimately claim, with us they do not count. If it's no use for people like the one I'm wearing today in my shirt, Gustau Muñoz, who was shot in the back by the police in 1978, so that his relatives and comrades find justice, with us they don't count. We find some aspects of the law interesting, such as the withdrawal of noble titles that Franco gave, but that again places them in a contradiction, because the most important noble title that Franco gave to Juan Carlos, appointed him successor and prince, then became king and in this very room swore the Principles of the Movement. Therefore, a clear consequence of an honorable historical memory would also be to remove the crown to the Bourbons. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u129	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u130	Madam President, Mr Guztioi. I am beginning my speech by making the point of our vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group, since its central approaches are close to or coincide with our own approaches, exceeding very positively the content of the Government's draft. We share the view of the crimes of Francoism as crimes against humanity, as we share the view of the Amnesty Act of 1977 as contrary to existing international human rights law. We welcome the creation of possible truth commissions, since, while it is not specifically proposed to set up such bodies, a favourable option remains. We believe that there are greater concretions regarding the allocation of the law to Euskal Herria and other peoples and nations of the State, and we welcome the State's approach to the assumption of the responsibilities arising from Francoist repression. We could continue to list the progress observed in this amendment of the Republican Parliamentary Group, but we take this opportunity to show our position on the draft submitted by the Government. With regard to the drafts presented above and the 2007 law, we recognize that important steps have been taken to improve on the current proposal. Society in general and the memorial movement for years have claimed points related to truth, justice and reparation, and thanks to their relentless struggle it has been achieved that they have been translated into this law. However, we believe that there are important aspects that have not been collected and that should be in a law of democratic memory to be considered good law. We see a need for an opening of the time period that the law intends to address. The reparation of victims cannot be limited to the proposed period, closing in 1978 the existence of a violation of rights and thus denying subsequent victims their rights, recognition and reparation. If there is a violation of human rights, torture, arbitrary detention, executions, State terrorism or the suppression of fundamental rights, there must be effective redress. We do not share the praises of the transitional period without taking into account that there was no democratic rupture. An act of recognition and reparation should be given to the victims and should be reflected in this law. It is also consistent with the fact that in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Foral Community of Navarre there have been laws for the recognition of victims of the State on political grounds in which the PSOE has been, laws after 1978. The PSOE until a recent period - in proposals of law presented on December 27, 2017 and July 19, 2019 - has admitted the consideration of the crimes of Francoism as crimes against humanity. We see a need for this consideration in order to meet the demand for trials for political leaders. The Official Secrets Act should be repealed without further delay. It is unacceptable that information is filtered into which possible limits are contemplated on topics such as 23F, GAL, Zabalza or last week's, the conversations between Manglano, director of the intelligence service, and Antonio Asunción, minister of the socialist interior, in which the latter related his predecessor, José Luis Corcuera, with the sending of letters bomb to militants of the abertzale left who caused the death of José Antonio Cardoso, a young postman of twenty-two years. We also propose that a truth commission be set up to investigate, analyse and propose administrative dossiers for the recognition and reparation of these victims. We share what the UN rapporteur, Fabián Salvioli, put forward in his July 2021 report, highlighting the incompatibility of the Amnesty Act with the obligation to defend Spain's human rights. We propose the need to repeal this law, or at least its most relevant article, and the finding of the imprescriptibility of crimes against humanity committed by Francoism. This estimate should at least allow the possibility of investigating, imputing and prosecuting the perpetrators of these violations, which is consistent with the creation of a special prosecutor by conferring powers on him or her. On the other hand, we see a need for the realization of reparation to all victims of human rights violations. Finally, in the area of competition, we demand respect for the laws of memory that are legislated in our territory. The use of the Constitutional Court and the obligation to readapt texts is a reality in Nafarroa and the Basque Autonomous Community, and we are not prepared to allow new remedies. These will be the principles that guide us in the process of amending the joint text, which we believe can improve the current draft of the Government. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u131	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u132	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the draft law on democratic memory through amendments to the whole with a request for a return by the VOX and Popular parliamentary groups and with an alternative text by the Republican parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already announced that the Basque Parliamentary Group will not support any of them. With regard to that of the Republican Parliamentary Group, we consider that its amendment to the whole with alternative text can be renewed through partial amendments, both in relation to the amendments it seeks to Act No. 52/2007 and in relation to memorial movements in relation to the Second Republic and certain collectives. Nor do we agree that the bill is an unnecessary text - as is pointed out in the other amendments to the whole - since there has been an unequivocal will for reparation in the last forty years and by different public authorities; that it is encouraged by a revanchist spirit, because it does not leave the judgment of the past to history, or that it is an imposture, since the articles dedicated to the search for the mortal remains of victims do not respond to a real concern for the deceased and their descendants, but rather to maintain the patrimony over the huge number of deaths in the counties. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only by this paragraph of the amendment to the whole of VOX that we believe that we should have the rejection of the rest of the House's forces. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the last forty years there have been acts of reparation - mainly material - to the victims of the dictatorship and the civil war. Executed officials are rehabilitated and pensions, aid and other economic compensation have been granted to relatives of the deceased and disappeared, to maimed persons, to those deprived of their liberty for ideological or political reasons and to children of war. The property seized has been partially restored to trade union organizations and political parties, and nationality has also been granted to international brigades and, although not all, to descendants of immigrants for political or persecution reasons. Finally, it has already been said that Law 52/2007 on historical memory has been a milestone for those who suffered persecution and violence for political, ideological or belief reasons, although we also consider the criticisms of its declaratory character to be adjusted, which is evidenced by both memorialist and victim organizations and by international human rights organizations in relation to treaties ratified by the Spanish State. They therefore demand a more comprehensive and comprehensive nature of the legislation to promote moral reparation and personal and family recovery, in the way of memory policies developed in different countries of the Union - in particular, in Germany -; policies that are in line with the values that constitute the common framework of the Treaty on Union - basically, in its Article 2 - and that are also in line with constitutional values such as the defence of democracy - without prejudice to the fact that the 1978 Constitution is not a militant Constitution -, the promotion of justice, the protection of human rights in their exercise and respect for the dignity of the individual and the rights inherent in it. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this it is necessary that we process the bill, in order to preserve and maintain the memory of the victims of the dictatorship and the civil war, to know the truth, to restore justice, to promote reparation and to promote memory from the public authorities in order to avoid the repetition of any form of political violence or totalitarianism. A law on public policies on the memory of victims. A law, as has already been said, on the recognition, reparation and dignification of those who suffered persecution and violation of their human rights, which constituted an affront to human dignity, in many cases through convictions handed down without minimum guarantees and for ideological and political reasons and not because the crimes of which they were accused are proved, as pointed out in the report of the General Council of the Judiciary, thus emerging from unfounded criticism of the planned ex-lege annulment of sanctions and convictions. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a materially necessary project, but it is also necessary in the form of a collective memory of painful facts, not leaving them exclusively to the treatment of history, as the People's Parliamentary Group claims in its amendment to the whole, since, as the European Parliament has stated in several resolutions -2009, 2019-, there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory, also outlining the importance of historical memory for the future of the Union. And this is because, following the tragedies of the twentieth century in Europe and precisely as a result of them, the victims become the transmitters of the pains and sufferings they endured so that they are taken into account, not only as a restorative inquiry, but also as a collective duty of memory that arises through Auschwitz to avoid repetitions. These phenomena of memory or social construction of memory, although they have a common substrate, are independent of the purely scientific power of history, which, based on cross-relationships, intertwined, controlled and compared facts, reconstructs what could have happened, integrating itself into an explanatory set but without axiological valuations of good or evil. President, I'm finishing up. Perhaps because of the history of the horrors of the twentieth century in Europe, Ernest Renan's explanation in force since the nineteenth century, that a nation is founded on both common things and that all have forgotten many things, is no longer so fully in force because of the unstoppable outbreak of memorialist movements, and even more so because of institutionalized memorialism. Hence the European Parliament's statement that there can no longer be reconciliation in Europe through oblivion, but through truth and memory. Certainly, this is a process that can lead to tears, but which helps in a solid way the generation of ethically and morally better societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u134	Thank you, President. No country should rest as long as it has one of its children in the gutter, and that is why we have studied this rule with interest. But what worries us in the first debate in which we bring this law here is the ultimate reason for its presentation, the leitmotiv of the norm. The spirit of a law is the motive or object it has when this law is realized, because it also gives us clues as to what its application will be. To know what moves them when they bring this law here, in Citizens we have wanted - let me express it - to test cotton. We can stand before a rule that seeks to honor those who have been killed by totalitarianism, a law that abhors mass murder, a law that abhors serial murder. It may be a law that wants to pay tribute to those who have died for freedom or facing liberticide. Could be. But there is a fact that leads us to think that the ultimate intention of this rule is not to honor the victims and their memory and condemn totalitarianism. At the same time that this rule proposes to honor and prosecute the victims of Francoism and the Civil War, proposing to prohibit the exaltation of the dictatorship and its surroundings, the elimination of the crime of the exaltation of terrorism is being dealt with in this Chamber. And this is where we find the great contradiction. As long as a law of memory is processed for the victims of war and Francoism, in parallel, you are processing a law of amnesia for the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] Memory law for some, amnesia law for others. I mean, memory yes, but selective memory. The reason why you consider that terrorism can already be raised - and I quote textually - is that ETA no longer exists. At the same time, they propose to prohibit the exaltation of Francoism, but in this case they do not apply the same logic as with terrorism, because Franco does not exist - except in the head of someone - but they want to ban its exaltation. It is this different treatment that gives one question and another what makes it difficult to believe in the honesty of this law. In this House there are parents of children killed by ETA, there are brothers of those killed by ETA, there are children of parents killed by ETA, but they want to allow terrorism to rise. You have to explain to me what's behind this difference in treatment between some victims and others. I'll tell you two stories, see if you see any difference. Two kids. [[Show a photograph of two children]] These children are Carmen, nine years old, and Paco, seven. Carmen will never turn ten and Paco will never turn eight. They were born in Corme, Galicia. Her parents emigrated to Gernika. Her mother left them in the care of nuns so that she could go and see her husband, whom, because of the war, she had not seen for a long time. He left them with the nuns in a nefarious April 26, 1937, when the Legion Condor discharged their bombs on Gernika, and they were never seen again. They died along with all the children who were taking care of these nuns. Carmen and Paco died in one of the most cruel, cowardly and ruthless actions in the history of wars. I'll tell you another story. This is Fabio, two years old. [[Show a picture of a child]] He'll never turn three. On 7 November 1991, in Erandio, ETA exploded a bomb in the car where his father, his twin brother and Fabio were going. In the documentary Thirteen among thousand of Iñaki Arteta, Antonio Moreno, his father, civil guard, relates - I open quotes -: 'When opening the back of the car I pulled Alex, who was fine. [[his twin brother]] The bad thing was when I went to get Fabio out. I had to take it to pieces. You don't know how to hold it, because you fall everywhere.' The father trying to hold the pieces of his son that fall to the ground, this is what's behind the ETA figures, this is what's there. This is memory too. [[Applauds]] This is memory too. At no time do I doubt that these children deserve a tribute, poor children. [[shows the first photograph of the two children]] But do you want to tell me why this child doesn't deserve to be honored in a law? You want to tell me why this kid doesn't deserve to be protected from tributes to his killers? [[shows the second photograph of a child]] This is what makes us suspect this law. Look. [[Show a picture]] This guy is Hugo Sperrle, who was responsible for the Condor Legion when Gernika was bombed. Can you imagine that this Nazi was honored in Gernika on the day of his retirement? Can you imagine that they received with rockets and applause? Well, look. [[Show another photograph]] This other guy is Francisco Javier Martínez Izaguirre, one of the three culprits convicted of Fabio's murder. This man was greeted with rockets, applause and a hall of honor in his village. [[Applauds]] Do you want to explain to me why a law will rightly prohibit tributes to this guy but will not prohibit tributes to this other guy? You want to explain to me what the difference is? [[shows the photograph of Hugo Sperrle]] [[shows the photograph of Javier Martínez Izaguirre]] [[Applauds]] I tell you one thing: we give you the opportunity to rectify. You can rectify this infamy. They vote in favour of the law that Citizens have presented, which prohibits tributes to terrorists and pays tribute to children like Fabio. Twenty-two more children were killed by the terrorist gang ETA, not to mention the 857 victims of the gang and the thousands of wounded. In 2020 there were 193 tributes to terrorists and the government did nothing. They vote in favour of the citizens' law and we will know that they want to honor all victims without going in and discriminating over the motives of the killer, which is how serious this issue is. Because, don't be fooled, that's somehow empathizing with the killer. If one murder is less serious than another or is treated differently, they see something reasonable in one of the two criminals, and that has to be rectified. If they do not support the citizens' law, if they continue to do so, if they eliminate the crime of heightening terrorism, if we continue to see tributes to terrorists, we will know that they do not do this for the victims, but that they use their memory for their political motives. That's why they won't be able to count on Citizens. A murderer is a murderer. A murdered child is a murdered child. And all that blood that's soaked up Spain all these years is the blood of the innocent. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u135	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u136	Thank you, Madam President. When we say from democratic and anti-fascist positions that the democratic memory bill remains short to lift the slab of silence and, especially, to end impunity for the crimes of Francoism, the ultra right and the ultra right appear trying to make nothing change, that nothing progresses. That is why, from the outset, the BNG will reject the amendments to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party and VOX, which represent, respectively, the shameful post-Franchism and the disempowerment. We will, of course, vote in favour of the one tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group, because we really want this to become a reality, which states the law: truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. The Memory Law of 2007 opened a small way, thirty years after the dictator's death - as we would say, in time it was not - but it was to a large extent a missed opportunity. The risk is that this of 2021 will also be so, but there are substantial changes, particularly in aspects such as the repeal of the Amnesty Act - or at least paragraphs (e) and (f) of its second article - to put an end to impunity for the crimes of the dictatorship; to declare it illegal - not only the illegitimacy - of the war councils - such as the one which sentenced to death the Galician nationalist leader Alexandre Bóveda - the courts and the political trials of Francoism with full legal, not only political or moral effects; for the assumption by the State of political, legal and property responsibilities to be created; to ensure effective judicial protection, or to fully open the avenues of investigation. In any case, it is also of interest that it serves to end the remnants of Francoism and to remove them from public spaces and institutions, and we are not only talking about the symbolic. Let us note that the main political residue of the dictatorship - yes, political residue of the dictatorship - is the Head of State, is the monarchy of the Bourbons. If the law nullifies titles given by the dictator, why not also nullify Franco's decision to declare Juan Carlos deBorbón a successor? Why not cancel his proclamation as king by the Francoist Courts in November 1975? And ultimately, why not ask the citizenry about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u137	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u138	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, the truth is that we understand that this is still a pending debate, and we therefore see an opportunity for such a law to come into play and to deal with the issues that arise. Someone will say that if this debate opens wounds or stops opening them, if it is a hard debate, if it is a debate that breaks or does not break the agreement. The truth is that it is a necessary debate, this is the approach that we maintain in relation to democratic memory issues. A mature society, a democratic society, does not have to have any reservations in order to be able to address this debate. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendment to the whole tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. We understand that it is a good contribution and, in the same way that we want the Government's contribution to continue its course, it would be good if it could also do so for the Republican Parliamentary Group. Of course, we will vote against the amendments to the full refund, because simply because they are refund amendments we are already asked what the attitude is on this subject: on this subject we do not have to talk, this subject can be archived by you, with this subject there is nothing to do. We understand that this is not the serious way to approach the debate. We do not at any time share the arguments that have been put forward here in support of the refoulement amendments, but, of course, what we do not share is that this debate should not be addressed, because all they show us is that they have no alternative, that there is nothing they can offer to mature and democratic society to address these issues. The text will therefore be a working text, a text to which to submit amendments, whether it is that of the Government or that of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Finally, Mr. Guillermo Díaz, you closed your speech by saying: Do not use the victims for your political ideas. But it must be pointed out that the exercise you did from this rostrum a few minutes ago was precisely this: to use the victims for their political ideas. And, of course, I wanted to show you our rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, and lastly, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u140	Good afternoon. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against the amendments of the People's and VOX Parliamentary Group and in favour of that of the Republican Parliamentary Group, because we believe that the government bill is insufficient. It does not declare the illegality of the Franco regime, it does not question the Transition and part of a concept of restorative justice, when what is needed is dry justice. In Junts per Catalunya we are 100% in favour of democratic memory policies. There is no democracy if one turns a page and forgets the crimes perpetrated by fascism. I will give a couple of examples of why democratic memory should be taken care of. One, while a Secretary of State of the Government is promoting a law of democratic memory, another Secretary of State - not just anyone, but, look, security, the number two of the Interior, Mr Rafael Pérez Ruiz - says - we do not know whether from ignorance, stupidity or, even worse, the will to insult hundreds of tortured people, including socialist militants - that the Police Commissioner of Via Laietana has been a symbol of public service, a symbol for democracy. A place where hundreds of people were tortured? What memory is that? Second example. A Member of Parliament who recently presented himself as liberals in a debate on the threat of the ultra-right in the institutions devoted all his intervention to explaining that the ultra-right is not in the domes or in part of the army, the police and the judiciary, but in independence and in the Republican Left. It is not my party, even if it has been for many years, but I am concerned that someone who pretends to be liberal might call it totalitarian. Liberals, thousands of Esquerra militants died at the hands of fascism: 730 killed by Franco, 44 mayors, never forgetting the only president murdered in Europe, the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Lluís Companies. The corporal. The story of the PP and VOX, which hides Francoism by appealing to coexistence, reconciliation and to bury grudges, reminds me of the PSOE's false and bold speech about the supposed crisis of coexistence in Catalonia and the need for a re-encountering agenda. Look, no. Neither I forget the fascist past nor lies about a non-existent conflict of coexistence, when what exists is a political conflict between Spain and Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u142	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. First of all, I wanted to start my speech by asking for forgiveness from all the victims of Francoism for being so late. It's not the first time I've said it, but I'll say it again. It is a law that has taken a long time to reach Congress, more than we would have liked, and that will not be able to see, moreover, many of the victims who have already died without the State having compensated them for that injury, with which they lived so many years and throughout their lives. Secondly, I would also like to express the satisfaction of my parliamentary group with the beginning of the process of this law on democratic memory. It is a necessary law, but it is also urgent. And it not only fulfils one more commitment to the parliamentary agreement that we have with the Socialist Party, but also means paying that debt to those who fought for democracy and freedoms in our country, and, above all, that allows us also to establish signs of democratic identity for our future generations. We would like to thank the whole of civil society, but in particular the State Meeting of Democratic Memory Organizations, for the work they have done to improve the text of this bill and for all that momentum to make this a reality today. The draft that we are bringing here today improves, in principle, its initial wording, so we are convinced that the text that is finally adopted will be the best possible. That is true of the People's Party and of VOX, of course, we do not expect anything. I don't even talk about VOX anymore because he's given a kind of historical revisionism where he's caught an interesting pinch from here, another from there, another from there, he's put them in a cocktail pot and suddenly he's invented the story that we've been able to hear. Then, they go from intellectuals saying that none of us here have read 1984, when that was a forced reading in adolescence and, therefore, we have done so. Mr. Contreras, it's just like you didn't quite understand what you wanted to say there. The amendments to the whole - both of the People's Party and of VOX - are consistent, in the end, with what they have been doing and saying throughout their history, which is: to ignore, when not insulting the victims of Francoism, to consecrate impunity for crimes against humanity and to try to confuse with that equidistance which they seem to proclaim always and which exists only in their bad conscience. Gentlemen of the PP and VOX, it would be a fantastic opportunity for you to move away from the dictatorship and its crimes, but the content of your amendments to the whole puts you once again as ideological heirs of the most painful period of our history. I don't know if you imagine Merkel refusing to pass a memory law that condemned Nazism. Well, no! Because the difference between you, gentlemen of the People's Party and the European right is that the European right is democratic of origin, while you do not cease to be, after all, a party founded by seven Francoist ministers. The Civil War lasted three years, as a result of a military coup d'état against a democratic regime; a coup d'état firing at a defenceless people who tried to defend democracy. The Franco dictatorship was forty years of nightmare that killed the democratic opposition until the end of its days. However, since we regained democracy - 43 years ago - it has never, apparently, been the time to do justice to the victims of the dictatorship. And the mass graves, where those democrats repressed by Francoism are buried and buried, are a shame to any good person, but they do not seem to embarrass the People's Party or the ladies and gentlemen of VOX enough. To speak at this point of revenge or to claim the whitening of Francoism with a false equidistance - as I say - is an attack on democracy and on common sense. From our group, we are committed to working during this parliamentary process to improve the text of the law. In addition, we need to reach a broad, progressive and forward-looking agreement, and in this regard we are going to guide all our amendments, which we are presenting with the intention of improving this current text. We share with the Group of the Left a great deal of the content of its amendment as a whole, and we believe that it will also be possible to make a synthesis of the current draft submitted by the Government and we will commit ourselves to working in that direction. No one would understand, moreover, that the democratic forces as a whole would not agree on this matter. This law also addresses key issues, such as the repudiation and condemnation of the military coup d'état and the Franco dictatorship, the recognition of the status of victim to all those individuals and direct relatives who have suffered repression, the declaration of full nullity of any kind of condemnation for political, ideological or conscientious reasons, also the withdrawal or elimination of symbols or elements and acts contrary to democratic memory, accompanied by a sanctioning regime, or the withdrawal of recognition, honour and rewards granted to persons who form part of these repressive apparatuses of the dictatorship, as well as the inclusion of educational curricula-history and Spanish democratic memory - and the granting of Spanish nationality to children born abroad of Spanish women who have lost their nationality. This is a United We can initiative that was promoted in the Senate. It is a step forward, but we believe that it should and can be improved in some respects. We consider, for example, that the period of law enforcement should be extended to include Francoist crimes during the transition, at least until the end of 1982. It should also include the right to claim financial compensation from victims and the nullity of section 2 (e) and (f) of the Amnesty Act of 1977. All that, among many other amendments. In short - and I am finishing - we in our parliamentary group welcome the progress that this law is so necessary for the democratic health of our public authorities and of our society. We believe that this is a significant step forward, although at the same time we will insist with our partial amendments that those effective measures be included to end impunity for franchising crimes. We hope that with this law and the so-called stolen baby law, public memory policies will become a tangible reality. We have no choice but to endure the noise and permanent aggression against the victims of the franchise of the right-wing benches, but you define yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. And with this debate there are two positions, either with democracy, or with the Franco dictatorship. You stand with Francoism against Europe, our country and our society.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u143	It's got to be over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u144	We call - and it has ended - to build a democratic consensus to avoid the sabotage of the right and to move forward to settle Spain's debt to those who conquered democracy, for which today we are sitting and sitting in this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u146	Thank you, President. After what we have heard in this debate, I have to ask Mr Casado the following: Is the People's Party with Francoism or with the victims of the Franco dictatorship? Today Mr. Married shares day in Yuste, Extremadura, with Mrs. Merkel. Could you tell Mrs Merkel that the Spanish People's Party is not going to support a law of dignity for the victims of a dictatorship as totalitarian as Nazism? Will Mr. Merkel tell you today in Yuste, Mr. Married Mrs. Merkel? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, shake off your original sin, remove your original sin, make yourselves homologable to the democratic European right. It is high time that they once condemned Francoism and supported a law supporting victims in this plenary session, since 1977 they have done so only once, by chance, in the Constitutional Commission. In Europe, right-wing democratic parties, whenever they have the opportunity, condemn all totalitarianisms and establish democratic health ties against the ultra-right. Here, what you do is follow the far right. Mr Casado, the People's Party is always late for the milestones of democracy, but then they try to take them. Mrs Montesinos has said this: the Constitution is ours, the Amnesty Law is ours, the Transition is ours... I will remind you of only three facts: first, you are heirs of the People's Alliance, not of UCD and of the sixteen deputies of the People's Alliance, eight voted for the Constitution and eight not; second, in the Amnesty People's Alliance Act you abstained, and third, in the Transition you were disappeared, because in the Pacts of Moncloa you supported the economics but did not support the politicians. So, lessons of democracy and transition, none. [[Applauds]] What is wrong with the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that the exhumation of the pits is a public policy, that the public authorities are responsible for closing the wound that still emanates from Francoism? What's wrong with you guys? How bad do you feel about the duty of memory, that the memory is in the educational curriculum? Does that sound bad to you? What's wrong with you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? We owe a debt of gratitude to the victims of Francoism. They were the ethical beacon that illuminated the struggle for freedom and therefore deserve the reparation that this law proposes and that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, should support. Ladies and gentlemen, when liberals are applauded by the far right, liberals are not. [[Applauds]] As for the amendment to the whole of VOX, there is little precise argument because everything they defend is outside the framework of constitutional values. That the VOX Parliamentary Group does not condemn Francoism is consistent, if you are the heirs of the values embodied in Francoism and fortunately democracy surpassed and buried forever. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are presenting an amendment to the whole law of democratic memory but, in fact, what you are is an amendment to the whole 1978 Constitution. [[Applauds]] For that reason, allow me not to devote any more time to them, but I will tell you clearly that they give up all hope because memory and education are the best vaccines against totalitarianism. We democrats are sure of that. As for the amendment to the whole of the Republican Parliamentary Group - Mr Rufián is not here at the moment - I could tell you that he has not surprised us because they have already done so in the Historical Memory Act of 2007, but they have stood still in that debate. This law is not a reform law of 2007; this law is a law that advances and surpasses the law of 2007. The second question, by which you did not understand this law and stayed in 2007, is because virtually all your amendments of 2007, ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, collect them and incorporate this law which the minister has presented and which we are debating at this time. The amendment to the whole with the alternative text they have tabled is therefore unnecessary. Without a doubt, the application of the principles of memory, truth, reparation, justice and non-repetition are much better reflected and are much better armed in the legal body of the draft law on memory submitted by the Government than in its amendment. We are very proud of the whole law, but what we are most proud of is that it recognizes the active role of women in the struggle for democracy. Our grandmothers, our mothers, had been part of the silent memory of the struggle against the dictatorship. From this law the women - our mothers, our grandmothers - are part of it and equal emerge the fighters for freedom. [[Applauds]] I want to pay tribute to those fighters, like my grandmother, who had to raise their sons and daughters with great effort, from the hardship, banned for employment and help, with an atrocious fear that they would knock at their door at night, because we already know what that meant. Ladies and gentlemen, you will share with us the satisfaction that the law declares the radically null and void nature of all sanctions and condemnations of Francoism, as well as the illegitimacy of the organs that issued them. All victims will therefore be able to access the declaration of personal reparation. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister of the Presidency has done, by saying that this law, far from reopening wounds, closes the wound that still remains for us from the blackest page of contemporary history. This law is born inspired by international humanitarian law, respect for human rights and links us to European memory. We are debtors of ourselves and of all our democracy of those who kept the flame of freedom in front of the dictatorship. We owed this law to him, we owed it to him. And as García Márquez said: Remembering is easy for those who have memory. Forgetting is impossible for those of us who have a heart. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u148	Discussion of the entire draft Organic Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. The Minister for Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u149	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by condemning, first of all, the latest macho murder - of which we confirmed yesterday - a woman of thirty-seven years with two children. It is the victim number 36 in what goes year and the number 1114 since the year 2003. I want this House to express its unanimous cry that we want to be alive and not one less. [[Applauds]] This law of comprehensive guarantee of sexual freedom comes today to the Legislative Power to break the silence. With their processing we will turn the will of millions of women into a law, we will also tell those women that after many years of fear, loneliness and not being believed, at last, their testimonies and experiences matter and will be heard. I confess to you, ladies and gentlemen, that my hope was that I would not have to face an amendment to this whole law. I honestly and honestly believe that that would have meant that Spain had left behind its long history of sexual policy against women. Since I am in this rostrum, let me then recognize those who before me have fought against hypocrisy, legal inequality, institutional and social violence, and double sexual morality, which has always prevailed in this country and which feminists have always fought to guarantee equality and the right to life free of all forms of macho violence. Because feminists have agendas that fit our time. Each generation fights for more feminist rights, for improving the lives of all women and for advancing towards justice, democracy and equality in this country. He is a minister, this ministry, and since today also this House, they take with force that purple thread of the road that others have previously walked. I would like to stop here, first of all, addressing especially the socialist feminists, the communist feminists, the feminists of the United Left. I know that it has not always been easy to understand the necessary thrust of this law. This ministry and I, in the first person, want to recognize the difficult work, the very difficult work that many of you have done for decades to achieve the consensus on which a law like this is being built today. [[Applauds]] We are and I am fully aware that the path that we are opening with this new generation of feminist rights with the law 'only is yes' is possible only and exclusively thanks to the path that others have opened before. The gratitude and recognition of our militancy to open this path that we are going through today is an outstanding debt that our country has with all of you. Today from this rostrum it is fair to recognize it, with that memory and that example we continue to walk together today. The debate, ladies and gentlemen, which you bring to this House today is a very old debate, as is patriarchy. The dispute over the sexual freedom of women is more than a hundred years old and connects this bill, which places consent at the centre, with former struggles such as the one that took place a hundred years ago against article 438 of the then current Penal Code; an article that, as you know, condemned adultery as a only female crime and gave a blank letter to the murders of women or to the female murderers, in the words of Emilia PardoBazán. It was enough for that mocking husband to claim suspicion of adultery after murdering his wife and the hypothetical lover so that that macho murder would remain in absolute impunity. During the last 20th century, we have always been told that the murders of women were but passionate crimes, in which jealousy was not only an excuse for macho violence but its best ally. Women had to wait until 2004, for the pioneering law against gender-based violence, driven by the feminist movement and at institutional level by the Socialist Party, to ensure a democratic understanding of the fight against sexist violence in partner or ex-partner relations. A law that the General Courts strengthened years later with the State Pact against Gender Violence and that the text that we defend today comes to complete to bring us to European and international standards in protection against sexual violence, so that no macho violence remains in impunity and, therefore, that all women have the same and necessary protection by the State. Today we are accompanied in this House by feminists who fought for the most elementary survival more than a hundred years ago and condemned, like Pardo Bazán, like Carmen de Burgos, like Nelken, like Campoamor, double sexual morality, religious hypocrisy, absolute lack of freedom over their bodies, their desires and their rights as women. Today also in his name we make law a unanimous cry, that of the great-granddaughters and the great-granddaughters of those women, which says: 'it is only yes' and'sister, I do believe you'. [[Applauds]] I began my speech by saying that we were coming to this House with the firm intention of breaking the silence. Beyond the parliamentary debate and the partisan confrontation, today all the women in this Chamber should share the obligation to present the voice of so many women, girls and boys who are victims of sexual violence because today, in order to break one of the deepest taboos of patriarchy, we all need to. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the terrible message that these amendments convey to the whole, which is nothing other than the invisibility of sexual violence, its normalization at the expense of the control and submission of the bodies and lives of women, we must all be. The time has come to abandon what Rita Segato calls the pedagogy of cruelty. The discourse of sexual terror, in the words of Nerea Barjola, is recorded in our bodies, becoming the cruelest justification for the rest of the inequalities that women suffer from being women. The sexual pact that supports inequality and the violation of fundamental rights of more than half the population is based on sexual terror. The exercise of our freedom, our security, our ability to decide, to live, are overcome by fear. We've all once changed our route back home to avoid places that seem insecure to us, we've all looked back with fear walking alone down the street and we've all warned that we got home well to a friend or family member. We've dressed differently, we've avoided being alone with a man in a room, we've breathed when we saw that the person who came out of the elevator was a woman. Of course, we've all been waiting for that message, too, from a friend. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you a question: why do men not need to change their routes to return home or send those messages when they arrive? The answer is uncomfortable, but it is obvious. A great elephant in this conversation that already occupies too much space and limits too many lives to keep obviating. We are talking about sexual violence in all its forms and today, at last, we come to give the voice to its victims, because this country cannot afford to go on without recognizing this reality, because sexual violence exists and has suffered it and is suffering millions of women in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not thought about the answer, let me tell you clearly: no man needs to send those messages that he has come home well, no man lives with that fear because it is women who are raped because they are women, simply because, ladies and gentlemen, they are women. They rape us, they exploit us, they harass us, they make us afraid, they kill us for being women, and it's been too many times that the state still doesn't take over. If that question had not been asked, if they had not noticed in this answer, if they had not deepened in the origin of this reality, many other things may not have been questioned, they may certainly not need it, but it is an obligation of the public authorities and the powers of the State to do so. So, let me ask you a few more questions. Ladies and gentlemen, why is it still easier in Spain to report any other crime than sexual assault? When a woman is raped, why would we rather tell a friend than a judge? Do you know why this is so? Because our own legislation, in the face of sexual assault, questions the victim and not the aggressor and all women know that they are going to encounter questions that place them as guilty of their own aggression: did you defend yourself?, what did you do? Because if you don't turn away, if you don't hit, if you don't scratch, if you don't push, if you don't stand still, it's not rape. What were you wearing? Did you drink? Did you use drugs? Because if you painted yourself, if you wore a short skirt, a thong, if you drank or left your drink alone, then maybe you put yourself at risk. Were you going alone? Did you know them? Did you talk to them? Did you smile at them? Because if you came home alone, if you agreed to go with them, if you left without your friends, if you went into that portal with them five or went up to that house, you were having fun doing it, just like a jolgorio, just like you've been looking for it, just like you like it. Did you say no? Because if you didn't say no, you wanted to and you didn't regret it and no, we women have no right to regret it, to change our minds. There are countless reasons to tell a woman that she has not actually been raped. If she's a migrant woman, because she makes it up, she's looking for papers, she's looking for money. If she's pretty, because she was looking for him. If she was ugly, she just lied. If you've been raped, you must have no strength to count it, and if you count it and remember everything, maybe it's because you liked it. If you've been raped, you won't smile again or go out on a party or make a normal life, because if you do, you're not so bad and if you're not so bad, it wasn't for so much or it just didn't happen. Because you keep talking about straw and not about repair. Because you can rape a complete stranger, but also your friend or brother. In fact, it is more common for a acquaintance to do so and in environments considered safe by women. Because you can do it with 60 years or 19 years, with six euros in the wallet or half a million in the bank. Because if your boss asks you for a cleavage for a meeting and you're not comfortable with it, you're overreacting. It's not that bad, you have to live with it. Let's see if we can't even tell a beautiful woman anymore. As if it were so difficult to understand the difference between harassment and a pipe or a nice phrase. 'Cause if he happened to be in a puticlub, he was a whore and he looked for him. Because if it happened in an alley and I was going alone, I should have gone the other way. Because if she was a child and she dared to tell it, she clearly invented it or, even worse, her mother manipulated her to tell a lie and hurt her husband. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the victim always questioned? Why don't we question the assailant? And why, when we recognize the victims, have we not yet done anything as a State to protect them? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is because terror is a structural reality from which our way of life is organized. Because sexism is the basis of the distribution of legitimate roles of women and men in society; it tells us what it is to be a good woman and what it is to be a bad woman. And because, although it sounds very strong to say, sexism needs, and that is why it normalizes and legitimizes it, the violence that is exercised against women because of being so. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to verbalise it and the place is this House, because this is where the conditions of possibility lie for us to live together in Spain with our guaranteed sexual freedom and not with sexual violence that is exercised without impunity. Because here, ladies and gentlemen, is where the power to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens lies, but it is particularly important now to guarantee the rights of citizens. The change began long ago on the streets with the feminist movement, and this is where law must be made and extended to all citizens as a guaranteed right. This House is the place to make as many rules as necessary for our freedoms and dignity to be law. What may seem natural to them, which has so far been the normal thing, is not. Machist violence is the most evident sign of the inequality that we suffer women and men; it is the condition of possibility of sexism, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs this law, Spain needs the law of integral guarantee of sexual freedom. It is time to recognize that it is women, girls and boys who suffer sexual violence and that so far there have been very few who have wanted to talk about it, name it and, above all, stop it. But that normalized silence has already broken in the streets and is now beginning to break in institutions as well. With this law, we take a more determined step to ensure that women are citizens of their own right. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, sexual freedom is a central axis of the right of citizenship, which presupposes the possibility of exercising sovereignty over the first territory of exercise, the body itself; nothing more personal and nothing more political than the body. Sexual freedom is also an elementary condition that opens the door to other rights, in addition to the fundamental right to a life without violence. It opens the door to freedom of movement, to the right to choose where to work, even where to live, and also, of course, opens the door to sexual and reproductive rights. We are therefore aware of the importance of this rule, because we know that it is not enough to enunciate sexual freedom for it to exist in the lives of all women. This law is therefore a cultural change in the rights of victims and an end to impunity. Because in order to transform the usual violence into everyday spaces of freedom, the three fundamental changes that this law entails are necessary. The first, a cultural change, a change in the rules of the game of our society; the change of the culture of rape by the culture of freedom, consent and sexual autonomy. Secondly, a change in the institutional look that symbolizes the 'You are not alone' and the 'I do believe you' of a State that commits itself to the victims and guarantees them an adequate response in their search for assistance, protection, justice and reparation. Thirdly, the end of impunity for sexual violence, especially in certain areas, such as the sexual exploitation industry. These three changes are enormous and, in addition to responding to the legitimate and urgent demands of the feminist movement, involve fulfilling our obligations as a country and as a government within the framework of European and international human rights law. The Istanbul Convention obliges us to change the paradigm of putting consent at the centre of relations. This European framework treaty against all forms of violence against women tells us that the public authorities must guarantee women's sexual freedom and that this does not mean requiring them to prove that they were subjected, that they resisted or that there was violence in a sexual relationship, but that it obliges us to pass laws to place women's consent at the centre, as a central and essential step in guaranteeing their freedom and the right to a life free from violence. With this law, our country joins a list that fortunately grows every year, that of countries that also comply with the Istanbul Convention and that amend their legislation to define as an offence against sexual freedom any sexual act without consent. Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Cyprus, Denmark, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Sweden or the United Kingdom are countries which have already legislated in this regard. The group of experts of the Istanbul Convention, the Grevio, in its first report on Spain, asks us to be the following on the list. In that report, the Grevio welcomes the fact that, through this bill, we send the social message that - it says so textually - rape is rape and that any sexual act carried out with another person without his consent is considered sexual violence, in accordance with article 36 of the Istanbul Convention. But this law, as I say, not only represents a paradigm shift in cultural terms, but also represents a historic advance in material terms, as it fills very important gaps in the path of victims and sets in motion normative instruments to combat impunity for these violences. This rule complies with all the measures set out in the State Covenant against Gender Violence in the field of sexual violence, and even improves the framework of the Covenant itself, thanks to the comprehensiveness of the norm. Specifically, the Act implements measures 182, 183, 188, 8, 184, 3, 5, 186, 29, 135, 185 and 107 of the Views of Congress and measures 171, 173, 178,69, 89, 4, 7, 14 and 15 of the Views of the Senate and establishes for the first time in Spain a catalogue of the rights of victims of sexual violence. The law recognizes the right of victims to specialized health care, to economic and housing autonomy, with a system of aids and labour rights and, of course, also to free legal assistance. Another fundamental right enshrined in this law, which is key in the exit processes of victims, is the right to specialized comprehensive assistance, which is developed through two pioneering services in this country. First, the 24-hour crisis centres for victims of sexual violence, permanent interdisciplinary services, the first link in the support chain and specialized care. I say that they are pioneers because the Council of Europe recommends one centre for every two hundred thousand women and, at present, there are two throughout the state. This number will be increased by provinces, thanks to the project of the Ministry of Equal Investment of European funds. With regard to girls and boys, the law implements the Scandinavian and Anglo-Saxon model of children's homes in Spain. This model aims to combat the revictimization that surrounds many cases of sexual violence against girls and boys through the participation of all professionals involved in the path of care and justice in the same place, in a specific place, adapted and adapted to the needs of girls and boys. This means responding to international recommendations related to the specialization, special protection and non-revictimization of children who are victims of sexual violence. I would like to thank Minister Belarus and her ministry for their work in building this proposal together. [[Applauds]] The law also focuses on alleviating another of the deficits with which a victim is on his or her itinerary, such as the lack of judicial specialization. And it does so not only by establishing the specialization of the judicial body and its holders, but also by training in sexual violence throughout the chain of fundamental legal operators to guarantee the right of victims to justice: the Office of the Prosecutor, the Advocate and, of course, forensic doctors and forensic assessment units. And a fundamental right in this new catalogue that also responds to the fulfilment of our international obligations and that the law develops widely is the right of victims of sexual violence to reparation. The measures of the law are an improvement in the effective access of victims to compensation in proportion to the damage caused, to full recovery, including victims with serious consequences, to the right to non-repetition of violence, through programmes for the protection of victims and the rehabilitation of aggressors, and to social recognition, with measures to restore the dignity of victims and to generate a social narrative that delegitimates violence as well as aggressors. Finally, I would like to refer to another important measure aimed especially at ending the impunity of an industry that moves 5 million euros in black a day and whose lucrative activity is the sexual exploitation of women and girls. This law also comes to comply with the recommendations of the United Nations addressed to our country in the fight against sexual exploitation. In particular, Cedaw, in its last report in 2015, urged us to adopt a broad definition of "proxenetism" in order to enable the proper prosecution of those who exploit prostitution. This law therefore amends the offence of non-coercive pimping, which is currently virtually inapplicable, in the words of the Attorney General's Office, and recovers the figure of the rental third party so that it can effectively prosecute those who use their premises or floors to profit from the sexual exploitation of women. In the amendment of these articles we focus on companies that have sexual exploitation as a regular business, to which measures such as closure of the premises, fine and dissolution of the legal person will also apply, creating, in addition, with the money confiscated from the pimps, a fund to help women victims. I told them that this is the law of cultural change, of the change in the most basic rules of our society, of the rights of the victims and of the end of impunity. For women victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, who suffer enormous human rights violations without the State reaching them effectively, it is imperative that our institutional action should ensure the fundamental rights of women in prostitution contexts and, at the same time, eliminate impunity for the pimp industry. None of these goals can be achieved without giving determined attention to the other. The fight against impunity for pimps cannot imply the loss of rights or greater vulnerability of women, and the guarantee of women's rights goes hand in hand with the end of impunity for the pimp industry. The State must guarantee and offer to women victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation ways of emancipation that are real, dignified and appropriate to their reality. To this end, the law guarantees these women the same route of comprehensive care and reparation as for the victims of any other sexual violence and, in addition, establishes a fund to finance measures to integrate work and promote economic autonomy, in coordination with autonomous communities and local authorities. In addition, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, we are putting in place a social and labour integration plan for women victims of sexual exploitation and in prostitution contexts. But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law can be even more ambitious in protecting the rights of women victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to raise the possibility of us working in a coordinated way in the parliamentary process of this rule. Ending sexual exploitation and trafficking cannot be a long-term task, and for it to be a task of the present we cannot avoid an obvious reality: more than 70 per cent of women victims of these violence are in an irregular administrative situation, as the entities working on the ground, such as Doctors of the World, point out. The amendment of the Aliens Act is an inescapable step so that these women can access the material conditions that guarantee them an opportunity, so that they can access a temporary residence permit, a housing, so that they can open a current account or access a job or a formative itinerary. The amendment of the Aliens Act is essential so that the proposals we are putting in place can reach all women effectively. I can understand that there are those who say that this law is late, that women, girls and boys in this country have waited too long. What we cannot afford, precisely for this reason, is to tell them that they have to keep waiting. That is why I would like to ask every Member and every Member to sit in this House and debate, to put aside for a moment the need to confront and to talk about the rights and needs of women in this country. This country was able to reach a historic agreement on this issue; it is no less than one of the few state pacts that this House has achieved to combat gender-based violence. That State Pact against Gender Violence speaks of a broad majority consensus among the people of our country, and this law that we are debating today is the result of that consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Let us do politics, let us debate the norm, but let us do it within the field of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask you to return to the field of play of democracy, to return to the field of play of the State Pact against Gender Violence. [[Applauds]] I pledge today, as a minister, to work with you whatever is necessary, ladies and gentlemen - whatever is necessary - so that you return to the playing field of the state pact and that the processing of this rule ends with you voting in favour. The women of this country, who vote, deserve our agreement. [[Rumors]] And ladies and gentlemen of the far right, even its machismo is not able to cover, deny, make invisible, ridicule or question violence against women simply by being women. Its rejection of this law, its negationism, and institutional violence, is the most evident evidence that Spain needs this law. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, and I want to do so by recalling something fundamental. Without the overwhelming force of the feminist movement and the voices of the victims, as was the case in the 1970s, sexual violence would not have been central to the political and institutional agenda of this country and of the whole world. As the State and its institutions looked elsewhere, the first-person voices of the victims and survivors challenge us every day, pointing out with their story a violent reality that we were unable to face. But, once again, the feminist consciousness and the resistance of women embodied in the power of their movements and collective organization have re-removed the consciousness of governments, States and society as a whole. Thanks to all of them today we're here. Feminist genealogy reminds us that in the face of any advance of our rights the counteroffensive has been and will be virulent. The ultra-right and fundamentalisms want not only to weaken the demands of feminism and to reverse the rights conquered, but also to aspire unreservedly to liquidate the public norms and policies that protect and guarantee our human rights. But, despite their attempt to interfere in our bodies and in our lives, despite wanting to control our sexual and reproductive rights, that is, our sexual freedom, feminism and women we have always challenged those control devices that seemed unbreakable and have taken away their victories by fighting together, putting our bodies to conquer every right. The #MeToo movement, the cry of 'I do believe you' in the streets of our country or the performance challenge of theses have turned the geography and foundations of patriarchy, driving political and social transformation around the world, embodied in this great international feminist tide that has dragged us to the place where we are today. [[The lady]] The new generation of feminist rights that Spain is consolidating is the institutional impulse of this enormous feminist and democratic movement. It has never been easy for women to question patriarchy and we are aware that with this law it is not enough to end it, but the feminist thought and movement, creators of reality, have paved the way for, at last, after years of silence and abandonment, the women of this country, the victims and survivors of sexual violence, to be guaranteed and protected their rights. The plight of victims has become a global cry that shares an unstoppable political agenda for the consolidation of democracies and that has been telling us for decades that sexual violence is a top political issue. As feminist writer and educator Kate Millet said, the personal thing is political. And it is that sexual violence is, as she herself would say, sexual politics, and Spain already needs another sexual policy, another sexual culture, which at last gives us the agency to the women who belong to us as full citizens of this country. I would like to take advantage of my last words at this decisive moment for the history of women in Spain to thank also the feminist associations of this country for their tenacity, their constancy and their courage for having been the first, in the face of institutional silence and at such a difficult time for the democracy of this country, as was the Transition, they made determined progress to accompany the victims and survivors of sexual violence. Our feminist memory reminds us today more than ever that it was in 1986 when the first association of assistance to victims of rape was founded in this country, followed by many others, the only ones who did not leave behind the victims, the unquestionable references to this conquest. Thirty-three years later, this Government and the Ministry of Equality take the witness, apologizing to all women, especially the victims, for the inexcusable delay, for having come so late to their demands, but convinced that their experiences will never again be covert or silent stories. The law of the self is indeed to walk firmly, protected by the alliance between human rights and the international feminist tide, as the spearhead of a new generation of feminist rights that will change the future of our country's women. Only together have we come this far and only together will we continue to weave the powerful network that will make the rights won irreversible for all women. This government, this state, believes you. And this law is just the beginning. The future is feminist. It's just a yes. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] This bill has been submitted with an amendment to the whole with an alternative text and an amendment to the whole refund. For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mrs Toscano de Balbín. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u151	With the venom. Mr. Simancas, are you looking at me? Mr. Guijarro, are you looking at me? Maybe I don't like the way they look at me. You're lucky she's a sensible woman, a VOX deputy, and that's why I'm not doing anything. [[Rumors]] But if I were another kind of woman, by that look I could report them for harassment and I could report them, even for rape, and I would have to believe myself because I'm a woman, because I'm worth it. That's this law. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] This proposal, referred to as sexual freedom, aims to make the Spaniards believe that thanks to the Government no woman will be again assaulted or raped. This ideological law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u152	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u153	... has the same effect as the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, in demonizing and criminalizing men, as the Taliban, as if sexual violence were not already regulated in Title VIII of the Penal Code. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u154	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Please, if you leave the Chamber, do it quietly. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u155	You are committed to this useless law. Why? The answer is obvious and double. First of all, it is a law whose aim is to indoctrinate so that it can continue to fatten its feminist chiringuites. How? Inoculating in society the toxic and perverse concept that all men are very bad and women are very good. Secondly, the resulting consequence is devastating: the visceral confrontation between men and women through the irrevocable criminalization of the male and the creation of the irrational fear of the woman. This is a phobia towards men - you should deal with a specialist - and not the phobias that you invent. [[Applauds]] But let's go into the details, because, although this is another rule of fat brush to which the government has accustomed us, it has a quiver and it is appropriate to unravel little by little. From the point of view of the legislative technique, this bill has the muddy honour of having received more sticks than a mat from the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State. [[Applauds]] It's a legal bodice worthy of an empty student of legal knowledge, but packed with feminist rolls. Just because it's a law, let's say, legally useless, we'd have to send it to chiqueros, but since you don't like tauromaquia we'll say that this legal chaff has to be sent directly to the cochiquera. [[Applauds]] Despite having been cooked in the Ministry of Equality, this law consistently attacks the principle of equality before the law, since it only seeks, which it does not achieve, only the protection of women against men. How come they don't look ashamed when they talk about equality? Does sexual violence against men or homosexuals matter? One of two, or in their feminist and purple world the only possible victim is the woman and the only possible aggressor is the man or sexual violence that others suffer. I don't know what choice of both seems to me to be the most serious. [[Applauds]] We are now going to address the issues of consent, the burden of proof and the merger of criminal types, which are not minor issues. Our Criminal Code defines and defines sexual assault, sexual abuse, in relation to lack of consent. Its irrational proposal eliminates this wise and gradual distinction and encompasses any act of this nature in the same tailor's drawer, putting at the same height a pleasant flattery, a chastity pyropo, a comment sapphire, a harassing behavior or a rape. To further cloud the horizon of this criminal type, they propose a definition of diffuse, abstract, hard to prove sexual consent, in the spirit of making it easier for women to accuse men. Consequently, the presumption of man's innocence was violated, since the woman's word was intended to be sufficient to condemn him. With this legal calamity that we have just outlined, to come out approved will not matter the facts, the legal certainty, the presumption of innocence or the reality, but everything will revolve around the feminist slogan of 'Only it is' that seeks the existence of an explicit, verbal or non-verbal consent. [[Applauds]] The normal thing is, whoever reports it, try it. In the case that you contemplate, in which women have to be believed always without proof, it will be the man who has to prove that he did not commit aggression, and not only that, but must prove that the complainant gave her explicit consent. And I wonder, in what way? What do they propose to men, including Members of this House, if a woman accuses them of falsehood, without evidence? Will they have to beg for a'sign here'? Did they set up the previous sex contract? Will an application created for this purpose have to be downloaded? Will it be mandatory to have witnesses during the sexual act? Will they have to go to a notary to certify the legality of the cojuanda? Will the feminist ministry provide any type of approved device for women to welcome us to copulate? [[Laughter and applause]] If this sounds crazy to you, there's still more. What will happen if a woman falsely accuses a man of rape after giving her consent on the grounds that she changed her mind in the middle of the act? How then is consent proven? Should we say yes as long as the act lasts, at regular intervals, every minute, every two, every five? Can we say a word equivalent to itself? Is it worth a 'follow' or a'more'? And the nonverbal language? What specific signs will be valid for a man not to be accused of a rapist? [[Laughter and applause]] He was going to propose that they draw up a catalogue of signs, signals and words and that they require that their learning be credited with a card similar to the driving licence. But I don't want to go on, because there's no point that you don't approve. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want a #MeToo, we don't want a witch hunt against men, we don't want innocent people in jail or rapists on the street. This law does not even toughen the penalties for those who commit acts against sexual freedom. You, women who call yourselves feminists, and you, men who boast of wearing the medallion of allies, tear your clothes defending women, defending their sexual freedom, but with this law you lower the penalties for sexual assault, oppose the aggressors being in jail and encourage the presence in Spain of people who come from cultures that do not respect women. The minister, Irene Montero, has been unable these days to condemn an alleged aggression-with the haste that you have given yourself to condemn an alleged aggression if the man was white - because the alleged aggressors were Moroccans. [[Applauds]] That's your gross baldness and that's what you care about the woman and her sexual freedom. And what about the consideration of the mild crime of occasional harassment, which includes the pyropo and which you identify as street harassment? For feminism, all that can displease a woman subjectively is violence and, therefore, crime. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an aberration. But with a law drawn up by a ministry headed by you, surrounded by a convicted woman, Isabel Serra, and two defendants, Carlos Sánchez Mato and Celia Mayer, what can go wrong? Since your ministry, you teach us without complex lessons of equality and democracy, but you no longer deceive us, because you with one hand hold the flag of feminism while with another you open the borders to people who do not regard women as equals. [[Applauds]] You with one hand point to the man for being violent and potential rapist, and with the other you open the prison door to the convicted aggressors to be on the street. You with one hand wave the flag of equality LGTB and with the other exclude you from this law, in addition trampling on article 14 of our Constitution. [[Applauds]] You with this proposal not only want to sustain your hatred of man, you also want to indoctrinate our children into that hatred, violating our right to educate them according to our convictions. Mrs Montero, I told you once, but I repeat again: our children are not yours, our children are ours. [[Applauds]] This law shows once again that you are the evil disguised as good; you are totalitarianism disguised as freedom; you are discrimination disguised as equality; you are hatred of the man disguised as defense of women, because if anything characterizes their feminism is hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, we men and women have been created by God equal in dignity. Genesis says: 'God created man in his image and likeness, in the image of God created them; man and woman created them.' Men and women are communions of different and complementary people. We are different physically, psychologically and spiritually, but both with equal dignity we aspire to happiness and fullness in love, which is expressed in two attitudes: mutual surrender and welcome, which take away the right of every human being to love and be loved. [[Applauds]] You want to dynamite that love, we defend it and exalt it. That is why VOX is in this rostrum today defending love, family, dignity and equality, because we care about all the victims of sexual violence, we care about all the pain, come where it comes from and suffer whoever suffers, because if it were not, we would look like you and we would be contributing to creating a sick society. [[applause]] However, in VOX we say: we work, protect and suffer for all who have suffered sexual assaults, for all, without distinction, because all people are worthy of protection. This law will not improve the safety of women against sexual assault, it will only increase the risk for men to suffer false complaints. This law will lead to greater interference by the State in our private life to undermine basic civil rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to protect our freedom, leave us alone; leave us alone because your law violates the most basic legal technique, your law violates fundamental rights, your law violates equality, your law violates freedom, your law violates even common sense. So, I end with a song, which is his favorite song - that sublime feminist anthem - and I say to you: Socialcommunist government, the rapist is you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor - there is a problem in the monitor they are trying to fix - you have twelve minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u157	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Equality, after sixteen months of inter-ministerial fighting and re-affirmation, of strips and loosenings between government partners, changes of ministers and facing ministers included, brings today the text of the draft organic law for the integral guarantee of sexual freedom, baptized by the ministry itself, the non-governmental organizations that have guided it and the media as the law of yes is. From our parliamentary group we have been amazed at the discredit and disgrace which you, Minister, have led to the policies of equality in this country in the time that you take to the head of the ministry, based on an explosive cocktail that threatens your integrity and that of your political group, if it still remains and exists: one, to feed useless polemics aimed at confronting public opinion on matters that only serve to hide their futility, incapacity and no will to work in the face of the real problems of women, and two, at the same time to wear down and irreparably damage the consolidated prestige which they had held for years by different governments, in terms of real and effective equality between women and men, replacing them with voidness, nothing, for nothing is what they have done at this time because of the inability resulting from their incompetence. We add to that a number of other issues. Minister, the advisers on suspicion of being used for other people, in a dangerous mix of political, public and private affairs, of which you are the protagonist. In case this were not enough, she has now added to her cabinet a woman sentenced to nineteen months in prison and two others accused of embezzlement and prevarication. You say they are subject to judicial and media persecution. Go prepare space and reserve budget, because there are still some more that have received news today. Are they also going to end up in the Ministry of Equality? [[Applauds]] This, Minister, is denigrating and shameful, the Spaniards will force you to account sooner than later. The others, Minister, who are much more than you, have been wearing the resistance that these almost two years of nonsense provide from the Ministry of Equality that you preside over. And, honestly, almost nothing they can do surprises us already, birthday parties apart. However, we still suffer greatly from the detachment and contempt with which you treat all the Spanish women, who do not seem to worry at all: unemployed women who seek employment, who have it juggling to reconcile schedules, those who live alone or sick without social support, those who face thousands of difficulties in carrying out their business, and on top of that they have to face a bill of light that goes up every day in an uncontrollable way and without this government doing anything to solve it. Minister, the Women, Peace and Security Index, published on 28 November, made public that Spain has returned with you to the head of the ministry no less than ten posts, from 5th place to 15th place in the world ranking. Spain is the country in the European Union where female unemployment increased the most in 2020, with a rate of 18.4%, and the second largest female unemployment country in the European Union, behind Greece, according to Eurostat data. That is to say, two out of ten women who want to work in Spain do not find employment, with an increase of 3 points more in one year; all a record, minister. And the reality is that from his ministry zero answers are given, zero laws, zero appearances. You have the Follow-up Committee to the State Pact against Gender Violence, to which you have not yet dared to come, you have not come to this House. But, despite this panorama, this is your first bill, which was called the 'yes only' bill and which you wanted to import from Sweden by obviating that the social, economic, family, relational, climatic characteristics of both societies are completely different. The bill has been deflated by a bochronous process, it has undergone so many changes with respect to which we have known as original, that it is shameful to have had to move so significantly from its original positions. Although you have managed to point out that there is some major piece in the internal refrigeration of government in these long months, the text has been transformed by your governing partners until it is virtually unrecognizable. It is disappointing, Madam Minister, to see that this is a step in the way of legislation adopted so far on gender-based violence, as if you were not able to think anything original. On the other hand, the various proposals you make are unbalanced, the judicial governing bodies give them a strong swing for their possible consequences and you do not respond to those recommendations emanating from the reports that that text has received. We do, as is our obligation, what the Spaniards expect of us as a serious political and governmental option, as the alternative for the rule of law to be restored and prevail in the face of the constant attacks it has suffered since you ruled. The People's Parliamentary Group was able, together with the rest of the parliamentary groups of the XII Legislature, to sit for months and bring to this House an agreement, Minister, the State Pact against Gender Violence to which you mentioned a few minutes ago. Your fourth anniversary just took place. Congress is not the usual place for pacts, at least to a much lesser extent than the Spaniards would like. I bring the pact up to date so that our will to work is clearly clear and that each and every one of its measures is complied with, something which, on the other hand, is clear that the Ministry of Equality does not want or does not know how to do. Sexual violence was one of the most prominent themes that permeated the text. The need to act more effectively against it is one of the objectives we share and continue to share, as well as the conviction that it is one of the most serious problems affecting women in Spain and throughout the world, but they have not complied with the recommendations of the State Pact, they have alarmed all judicial operators and society as a whole with a crazy text, for which they have heard the siren songs of some non-governmental organizations and, on the other hand, they have disregarded much of the observations of the reports of the consultative bodies. On these extremely important observations ignored by his ministry, we have built an amendment to the whole, which focuses on the two major objections that have been transferred to the bill: the definition of express consent, which is necessary for a sexual relationship to be considered, in quotes, consented to, and the disappearance of the distinction in the Criminal Code between abuse and sexual assault. The Government is shielded by an alleged need to modify the current criminal response, referring to Spain's ratification of the 2014 Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe. Madam Minister, it is not a European framework treaty, it is a Council of Europe convention, but it turns out that there is no reference in the convention to express consent, but it is talking about the voluntary provision of such consent considering the context. I mean, it could be tacitly assumed and deductible. Our legal system has never intended anything different, and it is already based on the idea of consent. How could it be otherwise? The definition that the bill provides of express consent hides an enormous complexity, whose derivations, in the words of one of the authors of the legal text, are the following, and I quote textually: the change of paradigm in the matter of consent is important, because until now the courts could understand that, if you did not pronounce yourself, you were consenting. Now they'll have to do it the other way around, if you don't pronounce yourself, you're denying yourself. That shifts the focus of interest to men. They must ensure that the other person consents, that it is not enough for him to be silent. Where is, Minister, the presumption of innocence in this case? Where is legal certainty? It is an innovative formulation, we have no doubt, which carries undeniable risks, with the possible reversal of the burden of proof and the consequent reduction of the constitutional rights of the person prosecuted. Problems in determining whether there has been a crime against sexual freedom will continue where they were already, in the existence or not of evidence, not in the mere testimony, of which they will continue to need evidence. Nor has it been taken into account that the 2016 European Directive, which reinforces the presumption of innocence, emphasises in its Article 6 that Member States shall ensure that the burden of proof to determine the guilt of suspects and accused persons falls on the prosecution, and that Member States shall ensure that any doubts about guilt always benefit the suspect or accused person. And the second major problem of this text is also reflected in the amendment to the whole: the removal of the distinction between sexual abuse and assault, according to his ministry, also linked to the obligations assumed by Spain with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Nothing in the convention requires this amendment; it simply advocates a comprehensive response to sexual violence, just as it obliges women to respond to other types of violence. The elimination of the crime of abuse - as has already been said here - by treating in a uniform manner any attack on sexual freedom, as if all were of the same gravity, entails in practice a reduction of the penalties of the most violent crimes because of the need of the legislator to reduce the punishment originally intended for the most serious cases, in order to respond to those who are less violent. In this way, discretion is allowed in the judicial response that is alarming and that would allow, for example, as some investigators have pointed out, that the members of La Manada of 2016 - yes, minister, the members of La Manada -, sentenced today to a term of fifteen years, could only be sentenced with this text in force to ten years. In short, the result is that the lighter the crime, the greater the penalty proposed, and the more serious the punishment is reduced; an absolute misunderstanding, which we do not know whether it is due to unpredictability, ignorance or the will to reaffirm itself as an anti-system alternative, obviating the clear recommendations of the General Council of the Judiciary in this regard. That is why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has tabled this amendment to the whole of which we are defending today. Minister, you do not have to comply with the requirements of the People's Parliamentary Group; it is the governing bodies of the judges who recommend that you, in your first legislative text, stop happening and, together with this House, draw up a sensible bill, which addresses both the very serious problem of sexual violence and the constitutional rights of all Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs González Vázquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Lastra Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister. I am going to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in this Chamber, and it is that this law is so important for Spanish women that, please, we do not fall into the provocations of the extreme right, what is the only thing they know how to do; the only thing they know how to do. [[Applauds]] Look, I'm using this turn against in defense of equality. He spoke against those who seek to paralyze the advancement of women's rights; against those who have false lies and data as a political argument. He spoke against those who intended to impede the adoption of the law on sexual freedom. He took the floor in defence of the security and freedom of Spanish women. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on sexual freedom is the answer to a cry that women threw on the streets; it is the institutional response to a painful reality. Please, gentlemen of the right, listen to this data that is forgotten or unknown to you. 3 per cent of the total number of women aged 16 or over in Spain, approximately 700,000, have suffered sexual violence when they were girls. It is estimated that 2 per cent of the women in our country, 450,000 women, have ever been raped in their lives. Almost 1,000 violations have been reported in the first six months of this year, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior. The law on the guarantee of sexual freedom, which the right seeks to paralyse, provides for the implementation of public policies that guarantee the prevention and sanction of sexual violence. The law you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, are trying to hinder will offer a comprehensive response for women, for boys and girls, who are the main victims of sexual violence. With this law Spain will take a decisive step in adapting our legal system to the Istanbul Convention. We will incorporate consent as a fundamental aspect on which crimes against sexual freedom - yes, consent - are framed, and we will do so despite the mockery and contempt they have made from the right about women's consent to sexual acts. Today has been an example. In a country where rape is reported every five hours, you ridicule express consent. You should embarrass them, you should be ashamed. [[Applauds]] Listen and look: 'it is only yes'. Silence or passivity do not necessarily mean consent. Consent, ladies and gentlemen, is not the same as the submission of a woman trying to save her life; therefore, not showing rejection in a sexual relationship is not an excuse to act against the will of the victim. In spite of you, this law will eliminate the distinction between abuse and rape, focusing on the consent of the victim and not on the means or ways in which such sexual assault occurs. In spite of you, with this law we will place the victims in the centre, strengthening prevention and awareness-raising measures, and mechanisms for reparation and accompaniment. In spite of you, we will comply with the State Pact against Gender Violence, which calls for the development of specific and comprehensive laws, adapted to the characteristics of each type of sexist violence. We will. We'll pass the sexual freedom guarantee law despite all of you. This law is called upon to change the way society perceives the sexual assaults that we women suffer, just as it already did with male violence the integral law. Sexual violence does not belong to the private sphere of life, but on the contrary, it is one of the most brutal forms of machismo that still survive in our society today. Ladies and gentlemen, aggressors are not inappropriate monsters, they are men who act under the conviction that their victims are inferior beings who lack the minimum rights of freedom, respect or decision-making capacity. They're not monsters, they're men who rape. Crimes against sexual freedom are not individual phenomena, they are a further manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women, and it is clear that the public authorities cannot be alien to the comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to sexual violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, it is embarrassing to remind you that the exercise of citizenship also belongs to women. Being a citizen or citizen of full right means being able to live in freedom and security, it also means, for example, being able to freely develop personality - as the Minister said -. It means - to see if they understand it - that they don't harass you, that they don't rape you, that they don't kill you; it means that your word is worth it, that your desire matters, that you don't have to be dead for them to believe you; that means. [[Applauds]] It means, in short, that freedom is to live without fear. However, we women are threatened by specific violence that has accompanied us since we were born, and that can occur in absolutely any context of our life. I'm not going to repeat to you the data I've listed before, the evidence you're trying to obviate and deny. Do you really believe that a democratic society is one where half the population lives threatened by violence? Democracy is incompatible with fear. In a democracy, ensuring equality, security, freedom, the life of half the population is a matter of State. But their political blindness leads them to make a child opposition, which is to say no to any initiative this Government has, and that political blindness puts them in often useless and almost always embarrassing positions. Ladies and gentlemen, abandon your hostility to feminism and reflect, think from the sanctity and knowledge. We understand the fear of some of feminism, because it is a current of thought that was born of the illustrated reason. Feminism now defends what will be common sense for the next generation: it happened with the vote, with access to education, contraceptives, divorce. They're all feminist achievements and everything seemed impossible while they did it. All the advances of women have always encountered the obstacles of conservative movements, and feminism has always overcome those obstacles. Feminism has so much truth, it is so full of arguments, reasons and values that it grows where it nests, it is unstoppable. To feminism time has always given reason, while to you time always puts you on the margins of history. In the light of the data, ladies and gentlemen, this law simply appeals to Article 9.2 of the Spanish Constitution. It is indefatigable that we take positive action to give effect to the right to equality and freedom of women in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for this we are waiting for you, as for so many other things, although I fear that, as always and in the best of cases, you will arrive very, very, very late; always to trailer of Spanish society. Within a few years this law will be a matter of common sense, such as divorce, equal marriage or even electoral lists. Look at what revolution, which must consent to sexual relations, is revolution that we are posing in this law. This law will, of course, be a logical norm of common sense, and you will always be in the history of Spain as the stone on the road to the advancement of rights in this country. And it is that this amendment to the whole of the law that will protect women from sexual violence is purely consistent with the Popular Party's trajectory against women's rights. Every time you have had the opportunity to vote against, to oppose, to hinder the advancement of women's rights, you have done so. In 2002, they voted against the proposal for a comprehensive law against gender-based violence; in 2007, the Constitutional Court had recourse to the Law on Equality between Women and Men. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, spokesman for the People's Party, with the invaluable support of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has never, ever, made a positive report on any equality law in this country. [[Applauds]] In 2010 they opposed the Law on Sexual Health and Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy; in 2014 they voted against promoting a state pact against gender-based violence; a few weeks ago MEPs from the People's Party opposed the inclusion of sexist violence in the list of cross-border crimes in the European Union; and today, again, in line with their political record against the rights of women in our country, they are seizing against a law aimed at protecting women from sexual violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, this law is the unanimous cry of a whole country, this law is born of the social cry for justice. They are making the mistake of turning their backs once again on a society that looks at us to see justice, Spain which expects us equality, security and freedom. They turn their backs on a country that expects its daughters to grow up fearlessly, free. This country will always find the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party thinking of the society that we will leave to those and those who come, a safer Spain for women of the future will be part of our legacy, that of this coalition government, minister. In defence of the freedom, equality and life of the women of our country, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote no to this amendment as a whole. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Toscano de Balbín. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra, we miss you. First of all, I'd like to ask you something. This whole law is to protect women, but what do you mean by women? Because it is not clear to you who will protect this law. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]] Then he used a phrase that seemed terrifying to me. You say they're not monsters, they're men. No, that is precisely their perverse intention: to demonize men; they are not men, they are monsters. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Then I think I was a little upset about the subject of consent. I think it has bothered you to mock me about how consent can be expressed in a sexual relationship. That's exactly what we want, to be explained. It's so complicated in that situation to prove that I would need you to explain it to us. But he didn't give us any light, he just got angry. Mrs Lastra, Spain is the country that has the most legislation on gender and issues related to violence against women, and nothing is achieved, nothing is fixed. Despite the millions who invest, despite the campaigns, despite the dances, despite the songs of the menstrual cup in the mouth of Abascal, despite calling us fascists every day before breakfast, despite these laws, nothing is fixed. Why? You want me to tell you why? First, because its goal of achieving zero violence, as I have said before, is impossible, because evil exists. That is why you are going to extend this problem as much as possible. As you know that it has no solution, you will continue to expolate the Spaniards and draw up laws that tread our rights to continue to stretch the problem, because you know that it has no solution. [[Applauds]] And do you know the second reason why they don't get cases of violence to decrease? Because its laws, like this, like the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, never go to the cause of the problem. His argument is that the man is very bad and the woman is very good and never lies, and that's it. Then, with that phony approach, nothing will ever be fixed. And here we come to the most serious, and it's that you don't want to fix anything, because the whole issue of gender and violence against women and victimization of women is their golden egg hen. They have a lot of parasites, a lot of chiringuitos subsidized with millions of euros from the Spaniards, working to achieve a goal that is actually much deeper and perverse, which is to break the trust between men and women. And for what? Because they need to destroy the couple and the family, because they need us alone, they need us broken and they need us faced. [[Applauds]] They want people with no roots, no identity and no values. They want us slaves. That's the sad reality. [[Applauds]] But you know what? Let us not, let us not allow it, because, if this law is passed, we will repeal it when we are in government, because we will not allow laws that confront us and trample on fundamental rights. [[rumors]] Mrs. Lastra, can you look me in the eye and tell me it's impossible for a woman to lie? Can it be said that it is impossible for a woman to lie? [[protests]] [[The lady]] You can't look me in the eye. The whole Chamber sees it. [[Applauds]] You can't because you know it's not true, because you know deep down that women can lie, because deep down you know that your husband, your son, your father, all of you, men's deputies, know that with this law you can end up in the dungeon for a false denunciation; any of you. [[Protests]] You have a chance to stop this infamous law before it's too late. Stop, please, this visceral hatred of man. I ask you to stop this proposal and listen to VOX... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u162	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u163	... so that all victims of violence, regardless of their sex or sexual orientation, are protected and constitutional rights respected; so that our streets are not filled with immigrants who do not respect women's rights; and, above all, that we work to make sexual aggressors rot in prison. [[Applauds]] I will conclude by reminding all Spaniards, be they men or women, that when they suffer sexual assault, it will only be VOX who will keep them protected, keeping the aggressors in prison. And I would also like to remind all the Spaniards and all the male Members who are here today that when a woman accuses them without evidence, when their rights are violated, when they are found guilty and their lives unjustly sunk, the only one claiming their presumption of innocence, the only one who will defend you will be VOX. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toscano de Balbín. I give the floor to Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u165	Thank you, President. Minister, Mrs Lastra, our country's ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2014 brought with it amendments to our legislation because of its concept of violence against women, which is obviously much broader than that of our previous legislation, focused on partner or ex-partner violence. Thus, in the far-reaching reform of the Penal Code in 2015, Mrs. Lastra, with a Government of the People's Party, a whole series of new offences, not previously covered by Spanish legislation, such as female genital mutilation or forced marriage, etc., have already been incorporated, as have a number of penalties in the light of the Istanbul Convention. There were, of course, issues that remained to be addressed, such as trafficking in persons for the purposes of sexual exploitation, prostitution or sexual violence itself, and that was the approach taken in the State Pact against Gender Violence, which you, Minister, have so well hidden and forgotten since the day you decided to change your mind on its content, thinking that abstaining would bring you greater political results than voting in favour of what had been built up, with the consensus that the Spanish wanted in this area. Today, Minister, we see with surprise how you claim the state pact, as if it had not been and continued to be the instigator of your boycott, and Mrs Lastra supports it in a convincing demonstration that, once certain obstacles have disappeared that I will not mention, the relationship between the two partners of government flows. You argue that this law is an integral response to sexual violence, considered as - quotes - 'acts of a non-consensual sexual nature or which condition the free development of sexual activity in any public or private sphere', and to this end, for it to have that integral character, use to duplicate the Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence throughout its development. In practice, where we read victims of gender-based violence in our system, we now need to read victims of gender-based violence or sexual violence. Both texts overlap, taking practically the same measures and rights, bodies and institutions created under Organic Law 1/2004 and their development in subsequent years. This deepens the normative dispersion that the ratification of the Istanbul Convention generated, an aspect that the bill announces will further expand, as it sets deadlines for amending a greater number of laws: that of the judiciary, that of the prosecutor's office, that of free legal assistance, as well as a new bill to create and regulate a fund of property confiscated for crimes against sexual freedom for reparation measures to victims. For the development of the status of comprehensive protection for victims of sexual violence generated by this text, copying it directly from the status of gender-based violence, Minister, where is the budget for the deployment of gender-based violence courts to also deal with sex violence cases, for the police staff to deal with victims, for the units for the comprehensive assessment of gender-based violence in courts to also deal with victims of sexual violence? With what budget will they equip the autonomous communities and local governments to meet the new obligations generated by the bill? How will the repair be financed? The Organic Law 1/2004 established a specific fund, the criteria for which were defined by the sectoral equality conference. The State Pact against Gender Violence had a billion euros for a four-year period, which ended precisely in the latter. The automatic extension of the task of all the resources already established for the care of victims of gender-based violence in order to also care for victims of sexual violence cannot be the response that the draft law merely gives us. For now all we know is that you, Minister, have committed European funds for the creation, endowment and implementation of the so-called 24-hour centres through the distribution of a credit from the Plan Spain protects you III - Minister, what a name! - for the creation of comprehensive care services 24 hours to victims of sexual violence; that is all we know so far. Our doubt is how the 24 hour centres can meet the criteria of environmental and ecological sustainability, fair climate and digital transition, modernization of traditional policies, fight against climate change, protection of biodiversity, because these are recovery and resilience funds, because, frankly, we have our doubts and we want to know whether you already have the Brussels welcome for the use of these funds, and of course - I conclude, Madam President - whether the general budgets of the State that entered this House yesterday include in each and every budget of each ministry involved the corresponding items for a status of protection, which in the case of gender violence took eighteen years of investment, expenditure and a lot of work. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u166	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Lastra Fernández for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u167	Thank you, President. Mrs VOX's spokesman in this plenary, I will tell you in a very simple way: you lost the little credit you had, if ever had any, on the day one of your deputies had to resign because he was denounced for rape - for which the prosecution asks for five years in prison - and you fired him saying: Much encouragement, an exemplary reaction. [[Applause.- Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group make negative gestures]] Not good for defending the victims, do not talk to me about sexual violence and do not come here to give lessons to the groups we have left behind in defense of the women of this country. [[Applauds]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, this House is going to be divided between those who want to process and improve this law and those who want it not to be dealt with. I am sure that this law will be dealt with, Minister, that we are the majority in this House who want to protect women from sexual violence. And the lies and excuses that they have put on each other, those who oppose their processing, come to me. We will process and improve this law among all. We believe that this law should improve the response in some respects, and especially in those areas related to sexual exploitation, Minister. Sexual exploitation is the most terrible form of sexual violence in our society. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group will ensure that measures relating to sexual exploitation are aimed at the abolition of prostitution. [[Applauds]] We will not be able to eradicate sexual violence, we will not be able to eradicate sexual exploitation until we go to the root of the problem, which is prostitution. I know you share it with me, beyond the rental third party referred to in the bill. Now, yes, I conclude my speech, thinking, ladies and gentlemen, of the victims. I think of all those women who have been abused, assaulted and revictimized later in a court of law. I think of those who are asked if they closed their legs properly. I think of that young woman raped wildly and in a herd a few years ago and who was then vilified on social networks and in the courts of this country. I think of all the women we went out on the streets a few years ago screaming that 'I do believe you' thing. And for that sister, as the minister says, and for so many others and for our daughters - goes for them - this law will come forth, minister. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u169	Madam President, Minister. An affectionate memory of Erika Tavares. Our unconditional support for families and, in particular, for their underage children. A new macho crime, the fifth in Euskal Herria in the coming year, which shows us that the instruments existing so far to avoid them have not had effect. As far as we are concerned, we must be part of a strong movement and confront those who continue to deny the existence of macho violence. Today we come to face them. I recognize that mine is an intervention loaded with ideology, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, there is ideology in all bills, in speeches and also in amendments to the whole. What distinguishes one from the other is to see who is in favor of that ideology. We in Euskal Herria Bildu are very clear that it has been the feminist movement that has put on the political board the violence against women and the fight against them, and the timid changes that have been taking place have undoubtedly been the fruit of feminist work. We are also clear that it is necessary to address all the realities that surround us from a gender perspective, because violence against women is the result of the unequal relations between men and women in the patriarchal society in which we live, even if there are people in this Chamber who still dare to deny it. Isn't that ideology? On the other hand, since feminism - and in Nafarroa we know it well, especially since the cases of Nagore Laffage in the sanfermines of 2008 and La Manada in the sanfermines of 2016-, 'I do believe you' and 'Yes it is' have been a cry that has spread throughout society and will continue to defend itself. However, this claim cannot be interpreted as a demand for greater sentences for the perpetrator of the offence. When we say this is an assault, why is it interpreted that we want more years in prison? Both the members of the Group of the European People's Party and those of the VOX formation agree on the fundamentals, although then the letter and the tone appear in a smoother case. That is why we are not going to support the amendments tabled in their entirety. With regard to the bill, we note clear assurances that there will be a need to open a discussion process, and this is positive. During the process of this law, our training will address it from a feminist perspective. We believe that it is a good opportunity to deal seriously with the issue of sexual freedom being women the political subject and listening to the feminist movement, listens that it will be concrete in amendments. We want it to be debated because we are convinced that we are going to convince. There are aspects of this law that we value positively, such as the creation of the comprehensive network of victim care centres, 24-hour centres, the children's home as a reference point for the care of children, measures to train professionals in the judicial field and social assistance or prevention approach, although it is true that these measures should be accompanied by budgetary allocation. We have serious doubts about other issues, such as, for example, the idea of punishing the entire law, and there are issues that need to be resolved in another way, not everything should be resolved with the Criminal Code. There is a cross between moral and legal, the dilemma between pleasure and violence and danger remain alive today in this society and it is true that we are more affected by women. The sexual freedom of women is built in the area of freedoms and rights, supporting the affirmation of active subjects, and is built less or nothing following the tortuous paths of criminal proceedings and their punitive derivatives. We do not share what is contained in the final provision 14 concerning the definition of consent. To include prostitution in the debate does not come to light in this law. It is a pending issue, which is necessary for a calm debate, and there is currently no such calm. The same applies to other changes in legislation that have a direct impact on this reality, such as the Aliens Act, already mentioned. One thing is that you don't like prostitution and another is a crime. We believe that the objective of this law should be to recognize women as active beings, agents capable of making our decisions in all areas and also in the experience of our sexuality. The paternalisms are over. We need all feminist wisdom to improve this original text as much as possible, and in that you will find us. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u171	Thank you, Madam President. From my group, too, we want to join in the firm condemnation of the tragic murder that has taken place in Gasteiz and to show solidarity with the victims, as it could not be otherwise. This bill, referred by the Government, is designed to broaden the regulatory framework to address sexual violence, stimulate actions to eliminate gender stereotypes that support it, implement adequate care resources for victims and enable the development of effective public policies. Although many laws are being amended, it has, in turn, a notorious omni-comprehensive will and contains all kinds of general proclamations, many of them already contained in various laws and normative provisions, with a single apparent purpose, which could well be limited to their correction of a strictly political nature. This declarative desire leads the promoters of this project, as we will explain later, to sometimes ignore the competences of the various administrations concerned, sinning on certain issues of a marked centralizing tone. I will try to delve into this issue later. Two amendments have been tabled to the whole, one from VOX and the other from the People's Party. The first one does not cease to be an unacceptable negationist manifesto, according to the ideology of its authors, so I am not going to refer to it, because I will not give the nature of questionable negationism to situations as tragic, accepted and legislated by democratic societies, in which they cannot accommodate shallow tables and shameful equivalences as those that appear in this amendment and we have heard this afternoon. It's an ignominious libel. For its part, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting its amendment in its entirety because it considers the bill to be Manichean, to have a marked ideological bias and to be very deficient from a technical and legal point of view, and also to qualify it as questionable constitutionality because it directly affects fundamental rights and freedoms. Its amendment formulates an alternative text limited to a timely amendment of the Criminal Code, proposing the reform of its article 181, paragraphs 1 and 2. I think it's more of a tactical positioning than a deep discrepancy. They could perfectly have waited for the amendment phase, although I understand that they want to appear as the opposition leaders, given, above all, the fear that the Carpetovedonian neighbors will take the site away from them. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary group I represent is not going to support the amendments tabled in their entirety. As you will see, we could have had reason to table an amendment too, but we do not think it would have been right. In our work and commitment to the citizenry, we have an obligation to respond to the new needs that must be given in this case from the legislative point of view. That is why it is necessary to legislate on sexual violence, either by amending laws or with new laws. There are social situations which can no longer be circumvented and which need to be debated in Parliament for their subsequent adaptation to the existing legislation, giving a correct response to the need, widely felt, to bring criminal legislation into line with the existing social sensitivity of repudiation to sexual violence and the guarantee of sexual freedom. We therefore believe that the law must be processed. Now, we don't like the way she is. It seems to us that it starts by flanking already from its denomination, which can be even misleading - the sexual freedom of people is something more than the fact that they do not attack them, it would be missing more -, going by its centralist character and invading competences and ending with which it includes elements that should be outside the law, such as the subject of rental third party. Despite the fact that most of the competition titles confer jurisdiction on the State for the establishment of general regulatory bases or for the deployment of its coordinating activity, horizontal titles have also been observed that have been justifying, over the years, centralizing State actions, such as those provided for in 149.1 of the Constitution. The improper and abusive use of this precept has been and is clearly unacceptable as a centralizing competition invasion. It is, above all, from Title II when such excesses are being manifested in matters affecting the autonomous sphere. In addition, many of the issues raised in this Act are already dealt with, are already legislated in autonomous communities, such as in Euskadi, for example, among other matters. The question of the disappearance of the legal-penal distinction between abuse and sexual assault deserves a positive assessment, in line with article 36 of the Istanbul Convention. We believe that it neutralizes the symbolic problem, which, apart from the penalties imposed, ends up denying the crime of aggression in cases of abuse, confusing public opinion with the gravity and significance of criminal charges. This is with regard to criminal amendments. There is another set of proposals, as we have said, which we believe are improveable, and some out of competition. We said that there are a number of issues, rather articles, with which my group disagrees. In relation to one specific, regardless of its content, we consider that its location in this law is not the most appropriate. Gentlemen of the Government, we don't think you dare or just want to play with some cards, instead of playing with the whole deck and the whole game. With the article on the amendment of 187 of the Criminal Code, referring to the rental third party, you want to close the debate on prostitution without having opened it. Carpetazo: measure only punitive, and otherwise, butterfly. Do you think this is serious? Do you not believe that prostitution, its environment, its consequences, its social reflection, the people who exercise it, etc., regardless of the opinion on the subject, do not deserve a debate, a reflection and a deep aside? My group believes that it is fundamental. Before we legislate, we have to listen, then we have to debate and finally propose. That is why we are calling for an in-depth debate to be opened, so that once and for all this issue will be tackled with all its complexity, not with patches or bricks, and less with regard to a law that is based on consent as a central element of freedom, except on an assumption that you consider to be invalid; paradoxical. We are not going to delve into this issue now - there will be time, if we are allowed to do so - but we announce that we are going to ask you to take this point out of this law so that it is treated where it belongs. Sexual freedom - it is over - is more than protecting itself from aggression, but unfortunately, women still have to continue to protect themselves from the aggressions they suffer. Let us seek the way to ensure that, in addition to the punitive, these crimes no longer have a place in our society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u173	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will begin my speech by asking for respect, respect for all those victims who have at some point been victims of sexual assault or abuse, because in the face of certain speeches in this House, which seem shameful, I think we must have respect. And I want to say the word respect again, because I find it outrageous, Mrs. Toscano! Some of your feelings seem outrageous to me! [[Applauds]] Because we are not talking about unpiropus, and that we are talking with that frivolity of such an important matter and, moreover, knowing people who have experienced situations of aggression or sexual abuse, it seems totally outrageous to me to have heard these words in this Chamber this afternoon! Please! Alongside this, we are faced with a regulation. I believe that such a law is fundamental at the moment, but it seems to me to be a very important matter and I regret that on many occasions we are faced with a kind of advertising slogan and, in addition, certain tones of interventions that, from the point of view of equality and the defence of human rights, I do say to you that they leave much to be desired. Let us go ahead with the fact that my parliamentary group - as a whole - is prepared to work, to improve the law and, moreover, to prevent it from being conquered, because I believe that the important thing in complex laws, in laws that deal with difficult realities, is that we have both the legal and the social height to develop them. And here we are faced with a number of amendments. I think it is disappointing that there are amendments to the full refund of this draft and some speeches in which I do not want to enter, because I do not even think they are worth it. I am referring to the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, because it really leads you to think that in relation to the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom - just by setting an example of its argument - since the number of sexual assaults has been reduced, it is not worth addressing or improving legislation on this issue. I find it surprising that there is an argument in this line. We are reading your proposal, and all we see is that they deny that there are more women than men who are victims of sexual assault or abuse. I'm just going to give you a piece of information: the total number of convicted sex offenders in 2020 is 472 men and 5 women. If the evidence on inequality issues here is the data we have, and that evidence makes us look at that children and women are victims of this unfortunate crime, and that's what we have to address. Indeed, as it is not worth it, it is not worth even discussing any more of your amendments, I just want to say that we are against it and that with these negationist positions you will never find our political party. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party, we must say that we also sometimes feel that the People's Party is competing with VOX to see who is focusing on this debate, because I really think reading its amendment is an amendment to the joint text, I think it is a partial amendment, because there is one part of the argument that we agree with and one that we do not agree with, but it is really the issues of the amendments to the Criminal Code. I therefore believe that it is not the appropriate provision that you have put forward. Citizens' position on regulating consent in this case is that we do not consider it necessary. Article 1262 of the Civil Code and following - even 1265 in our Code - already establishes when consent is addicted. The Supreme Court's own jurisprudence sets us out how to really interpret or when consent exists. If we speak of consent and its definition, taking into account what the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State itself, says, we do believe, Minister, that it is not necessary; it is not necessary. That is, it is not a question of putting on a medal regulating consent, because our own jurisprudence and our own rules already establish it. However, with regard to the unification of aggression and sexual abuse, I think it is important to point out that there are very painful and regrettable cases that have occurred recently in Spain and that have made it clear to us that the current regulation of sexual abuse and sexual assault has deficits, there are gaps. This has been established by the courts themselves at times because of the very difficulty that exists before certain facts, as happened in the case of La Manada in Spain, that no one really had any doubt that it was a violation, but the Criminal Code that we currently have had deficits in what was the penal fit itself and show that we were actually faced with one type or another. That is why I believe that this reform modifies these kinds of loopholes. The proposal made in the draft appears to be appropriate, because it also represents a step forward in improving criminal legislation and prevents certain cases that are currently difficult to fit from being included, and even from being assumed on many occasions. Imagine a person who is unconscious and finds her lying on a street, for example, and assaults her. Currently, according to the current code, this provision could lead us to remain in limbo. Therefore, I do believe that we need to work on the situation we currently have with this type of regulation. We need to see the proportionality of penalties. The very article that you propose, Article 180, I believe it corresponds to the cases in which we must aggravate that penalty, as if the victim is in a situation of vulnerability, if there is a relationship of superiority, if weapons or dangerous means are used how to establish, when the will has been nullified with drugs or drugs, etc. I mean, I think we need to see reform as a whole. And we do believe that we need to adjust it, that we need to improve it and we need to work. For that they will find Citizens, so that we improve this legal framework. That is why we are going to abstain from the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, because we share one part, but the other part is not appropriate. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u174	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Democratic memory, sexual freedom, is that it does not fail; the ultra-right and the ultra-right always opposing any progress whatsoever, however insufficient it may seem to us. But the problem is that it is obvious, although some are committed to denying it, that there is sexual violence, that there is male violence, which also includes sexual violence. However, the far right not only denies the obvious, but uses the figures of complaints in a perverse way. The reality is that in the first quarter of the year 2021 data on sexual assault offences increased by 24.6% compared to those recorded in the last quarter of 2020, according to data published by the Ministry of the Interior. And those are the reported cases, the actual incidence is certainly much higher. Another undeniable fact is that prejudices and macho mentality continue to live in society, and it is not only behind the aggressions, but also the alleged justifications that end up revictimizing the victims. The report submitted by the General Secretariat of Equality of Galicia of 2020 collected the data that 16% of men considered that the assaulted women did not have sufficient care or provoked the aggressor in some way. It is therefore essential to act not only in the criminal field, but also in awareness-raising, prevention, treatment and support for victims. That is why the BNG has always called for addressing comprehensive sexual deformity violence. As I say, it is violence that exists and this problem needs to be addressed in all areas. The draft, in our view, bets on that comprehensive view and although certain aspects can and must be improved and corrected - for which we will present partial amendments - the need for the rule is unquestionable. We will therefore vote against the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego Candaimil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u177	Thank you, President. In the PDECAT we consider it essential to improve the fight against any crimes of sexual violence, consolidating specialized comprehensive assistance for victims of such crimes - especially women and minors - and providing them with better support. [[The lady]] We also support the right of victims of sexual violence to compensation through compensation that economically evaluates the physical and psychological damage, material damage or loss of income, loss of educational or work opportunities, as well as the social damage or therapeutic treatment to which they have been subjected. We also support a better criminalization of pimping, which pursues without barracks those who favour the sexual exploitation of another person. In this regard, our commitment to sexual freedom, the extension of rights and effective equality between men and women is firm and unwavering, as is the fight against gender-based violence, a real social scourge that we must combat with all the instruments within our reach. For all the above reasons, we are going to vote against the amendment to the full refund tabled by VOX. Mrs Toscano, I respect any opinion and ideology that is very different from mine, respect but I do not share it. Today she has verbalized sentences that hurt even though she has not been raped, abused or assaulted. With violence it does not get frivolous, and less with the kind of violence we are dealing with today. Secondly, we must emphasize that the draft organic law submitted by the Government is lacking in legal certainty. We share part of the content of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, although we believe that the shortcomings of the draft should be corrected by partial amendments to the text and not by an amendment to the whole. That is why we shall abstain. Minister, at the PeCAT, we have the will to put forward amendments to the joint text during the parliamentary procedure in order to improve the wording and contribute to a better, more technical and effective text, which will genuinely guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u179	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we reject the two amendments as a whole, but as time is limited, I am focusing on VOX. Last week Poland stood out from European justice when its Constitutional Court ruled that Polish law prevails over that of the European Union, giving rise to the fundamental principle of the European Union. I will read you some sentences of the amendment to the whole of VOX, so that you judge to what extent in VOX you have become Polish. VOX is against - quotes -: to consider that the international norms must be accepted without being passed as a precondition for the sieve of the interests of Spain. It also rejects the follow-up, for example, to the Istanbul Convention, ratified by Spain, on the grounds that the legal arguments necessary to carry this law forward are largely covered by Spanish legislation. But, curiously, in the same amendment they cite as their argument the preamble to the Istanbul Convention or the Declaration of Human Rights, when they speak of equality between men and women, manipulating the spirit of these texts, that what they seek is precisely to equate the rights of women, historically violated, with those of men. Not frivolous with macho violence. At Junts we are in favour of eradicating all sexual violence regardless of the sex of the victim, but we repudiate VOX's manicheismopolitics, which quotes the texts to convenience or rejects them to the Polish and that all it seeks is to prevent all of us from being equal. They have again demonstrated this in the Parliament of Catalonia, when its deputy, Ignacio García, is equating immigration and delinquency from a racist perspective, which sees in the different a potential offender. It is also you who, in this House, call a witch when a woman defends the rights of all. And - in that we do agree - as the Council of State's recommendation says, the immaturity of the proposals on prostitution is affected by the Government's view that they should have a wider social debate and listen to the experts on the subject. We would add to sex workers because, in reality, this law recovers the controversy of regularizing or abolishing prostitution. There has been no debate, Madam Minister, and they have therefore not been invited to participate. We hope there is time to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u180	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u181	Good morning or good afternoon, almost good evening, as we say at home. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in this debate for a long time and I suppose we will be tired. [[The lady]] One thing has to be said, from my experience as a Member of this House, when VOX speaks there is an advantage, and it is that the backs are quiet for a while and so we can hear the people in the gallery because for the rest there is no way. [[Applauds]] It's the only thing we can thank. Well, then jalean and chillan; he's pretty distracted. I don't know, if we have any P3 school, I propose a class of behavior in the classroom. Having said that, Adriana Lastra said that we did not enter the rag. I think we are wrong, gentlemen of the left - of the one, of the other, and even the liberals who are there in Citizens - because we are assuming that many of the arguments with which we work continuously and which we understand as peaceful have come to the bosom of the whole society, and that is not so. For example, there are many people who think that feminism is the opposite of sexism. To see, it is not true; feminism is the simple and at the same time extraordinary conviction that a woman is a human being with all her rights, that is! And, instead, you pretend that feminism is sexism backwards. It's fake. Please, it's fake! Every time they say it, all they do is pollute a lot of people and they don't realize how dangerous it is. And why should I tell him? The Members of this House, some more than others, live in reality and perhaps it would be pertinent to ask how many Members here have been assaulted or raped and how many have denounced it. I know at least one who's been raped and hasn't gone to report it. If you want, I'll introduce you. [[Applauds]] And he didn't do it because justice didn't give any credibility to his version—wow, what terrible scarecrows! And why? Because on the basis of that certainty, there is that belief that there are false allegations, that maybe she provoked it. I am not going to tell you, Mrs VOX, not to look at me, on the contrary, in fact I have asked Mr Guijarro to, please, look at me, because in the end we are going to stumble through the corridors, because he is making a lot of mistakes, he is making a terrible mistake and, moreover, he is being linked with beauty and youth, and that is not it. Sexual assault occurs in disabled women, sexual assault occurs in old women, sexual assault occurs in married couples, sexual assault comes out of the conviction that we are flesh to use and that we are not human beings who decide our sexual life, and that is where this law tries to intervene. Therefore, keep a close eye on what they say, keep a close eye on it, because in the same way that one day or even now you are going to have sons and daughters, you are going to realize that Saturday comes at night and one, that is feminist - and I have just explained what it means; it means, therefore, the absolute care for the freedom of choice of my daughters and children, the ability to give them the freedom to somehow pose their own biography and, therefore, to whom they want to love, how they want to love and when they want to love - the child leaves, but to the child you say: "Uy!", wow!, wow! A feminist saying to another feminist, "Is that how you're going to get out?" This happens because we are afraid, because fear as women has accompanied us all our lives, but fear as mothers is completely unbearable. [[Applauds]] And you don't understand that you're favoring that fear by saying that we face men and women when it's not true, it's a fallacy. You say that men in this law - and they say it many times, as if the laws protecting women in gender violence or in other things were prebends that give us, when they are simply restitutions to a minimum social justice, are simply restitutions and often without reparation - poor people, when will you know when to consent? Hey, you got a problem like a cathedral, huh? If you don't know when you have sex if the other is consenting or not, please, what a penis! Are we going to have to explain it to him? I'll tell you about it, but I think it's obvious. [[Applauds]] So, it's always the same and I'll tell you more, it's more of the same. What did you say with gender-based violence, domestic violence, macho violence against women within couples? [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] False denunciations, that's what the courts fill us with false denunciations. That's a lie, but it slipped. People swallow it and now, what do they say? Sexual freedom, false complaints, poor men, they're gonna fill us with false complaints. Man, for God's sake, if it wasn't for crying, it would be for laughing. Moreover, the defense you have done here ridicule the pain, ridicule the different position we occupy in the collective imagination, ridicule our lack of freedom, can only come - I have told you a thousand times - or that you go everywhere with bodyguards, which could be, and does not live in the real world, or that they have very few friends, or that they do not live in the real world, or that they really care about a radish what happens to women. [[rumors]] Because I'll tell you one thing, so ideological is to say that feminism is that radical idea of women's human rights as to say the opposite, what you say. I conclude with one comment: I ask the Members of the Left to look at me, I insist, so as not to stumble - if anyone else wants something else, we talk about it - but I also tell you not to look at yours because in their eyes I do see clearly where I will be - and it is not sexual - when you send: in prison, quiet and with the sleeves on. [[laughs]] [[Addressing the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[putting the wrists together with the arms up]] I don't get the handle translation. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u182	Mrs. Vallugera, you have to finish, please. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u183	Good afternoon. You tried to make contact with your assailant? This question came from a series of recommendations that the then Minister of the Interior, Fernández Díaz, in 2014 gave to women to avoid being raped. Of course, it's a somewhat contradictory message, it's a contradictory reproach. You tried to start a conversation with your assailant? Well, and if he set up a conversation, did he make it clear what was going to happen or maybe it was you who led to the mistake? I think Minister Irene Montero has perfectly explained how, continuously, there are a series of stones for women at the time they say they have suffered sexual assault. They're stones. Every sentence you've told us that you've blamed us with has been a stone. And you see, the feminist movement has been breaking that victim's stigmatization inertia for decades. Three things happened in 2018. On the one hand, there was a March 8 that was a turning point in mobilization and also in our sociocultural paradigm. If you want to explain it to him: basically, it's that before a sexist joke society doesn't laugh but, yes, it discovers that the idiot has stripped himself of his clothes. In addition to that, the mobilization of the 'I do believe you', which arose as a result of La Manada's first sentence. And finally, the 'Tell it', a hashtag, a social media movement driven by writer Cristina Fallarás, which served to break a wall of silence and let us start talking about the Machist violence we had experienced. Since then the questioning of the Machists is no longer a stone for us, but there are others. That's why, at the end of the same year 2018 Amnesty International produced a very valuable report on sexual violence that it's time for you to believe me. Because it turns out that the health, police and judicial system also stone us when what we do is ask for help because we have just suffered or we have just understood that we have suffered sexual assault. 'No more stones', 'I do believe you', 'Only yes it is' is not advertising and they are not slogans, it is the song of struggle for the claim of women's rights. [[Applauds]] This is reflected in the bill that the Government is bringing to this House and which today faces two amendments, one of the reactionary and negationist benches - oh, surprise! - and the other, less surprise every day and much more regrettable, by the People's Party, which seems to have forgotten what the State Pact against Gender Violence meant. A bill that turns into deeds that were words and shouts on the streets, which turns into public policies in defense of those fundamental rights to the prevention, care, protection and reparation of survivors of machist violence. And it does so in positive, placing consent in the center; a consent that can be expressed in many, many, many ways, but that has to be expressed, because the contrary is to maintain that rhetoric in which women's bodies must be available, unless they defend themselves with nails and teeth. We have seen that the People's Party does not like that consent is at the centre and neither does it like that we no longer make a distinction between abuse and aggression. I suppose he operates, seen the canons - which the leader of his party, Díaz Ayuso, said yesterday, who dared to frivolize with our rightful abortion as if it were something we do almost four times a day -, that vision of the honor that must be defended with life. Look, with life they defended Nagore Lafargue, Diana Quer and Laura Luelmo. Neither courage nor loss of life so as not to be sexually assaulted ever again. What we want and what this law says is that we need a social, educational, preventive, cultural and judicial pact so that these violences are not part of our daily lives. Therefore, also in 2018 our parliamentary group began working on a law, the law of itself is yes, with penalistic professors, with feminist experts in attention and with fighting companions; and, therefore, before the end of the legislature, Irene Montero defended in this rostrum the consideration of this proposed law. The feminist mobilization of the 8M meant that the Spanish State would once again have a Ministry of Equality with the best equality minister at the front leading it, and we knew that attacks would come because we have memories and because we remember perfectly everything that the Prime Minister of Equality had suffered in this country, Bibiana Aido. We know perfectly well that every time they attacked her, they were attacking all the women we were defending our sexual and reproductive rights; that every time they attacked her furiously, they were attacking all the women we defend another way of speaking, of being and of occupying space also in politics. [[Applauds]] For being me at twenty years old, my gratitude and my gratitude to Bibiana Aido. [[Applauds]] Now we are back to having a Ministry of Equality under pressure, and I want to thank Irene Montero for all her determination in the face of these attacks, because she also knows, as Rita Segato tells us, that the body of women is a battlefield. [[Applauds]] She lives every day the attacks of negationism and the attacks of the reactionaries; furious attacks because there are those who see the ground moving under their feet. This is what happens when we advance in human rights, that there is a movement of tectonic plates that makes those who were trampling on the rights of others see that their privileges move. That's why, because IreneMontero knows this, it's not just about not taking a step back - of course not a step back - but it's about moving forward. We're focused on moving forward. And I tell you, as the Argentine legislator Ofelia Fernández says, today's rights are yesterday's battles and today's battles will be tomorrow's rights. We're not going to discuss the rights won, we're going to keep moving forward. This is the only thing I have to say to the amendment to the full refund, that cutre that was brought by the party of small Spain. Give yourself answers, ladies and gentlemen, with the words of Ofelia Fernández. To the rest of your ladies and gentlemen, I tell you clearly that what we want is to end the stones - also the invisible stones - that we carry in our pockets and that have to do with it later, which have to do with one of the biggest debts this country has, which is reparation, the right to a culture of reparation. She has writers like Luna Miguel and filmmakers like Irene Moray. It is a question of a culture of reparation that heals, and that heals not only individually, but also collectively; that there is a unanimous condemnation by society of such violence, because thus lives can be developed without all those invisible and silent stones in their pockets. I'm done. The important task that remains for us is to protect sexual freedom, and that is to recognize that attacking is itself an aggression, because freedom is not to take reeds; freedom is not to be afraid when you come home after taking those reeds. [[Applauds]] Your freedom does not begin where mine ends; the freedom of all, of all and of 'all' begins exactly in the same place. With the need to live up to that legacy that we must leave, I am very proud that this ministry and also this Government know that we have to work to protect the sexual freedom of all people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs. Rueda Perelló asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u185	On the basis of Article 72 and in relation to Article 103, by reference to allusions. It's very simple, I just want to tell Mrs. Lastra that she once again kicked the presumption of innocence by blaming a man, and that's not fair... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u187	We turn to the point of committee opinions on legislative initiatives. In particular, concerning the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, to recognize the character of a customary and traditional court to the Private Water Court of Orihuela and its people. [[Alicante/Alacant]] Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u188	Thank you, President. 'And guide the waters in such a way that they water and pray as much as they used to in Moorish times, and that they make all the lands water for the stops by do they used to take their batch in Moorish times and not for another log'. Ladies and gentlemen, these words that I have just read to you perhaps correspond to one of the oldest examples of a political transition, of the circumstance of changing a political system without changing what works, of that going 'from the law to the law through the law' - so to speak - that took place there by 1275. These words are of the privilege granted by Alfonso X to the regents of the Vega Baja del Segura so that they could maintain their traditional irrigation systems in their fields and labor lands, so that an entire irrigation engineering and a social and economic regime based on agriculture would remain in force, following the advance and conquest by Christian troops in the face of Muslim domination on the Iberian Peninsula. In that 1275 the traditional irrigation uses of the inhabitants and inhabitants of Vega del Segura that had existed since centuries ago were recognized, respected and maintained. For this reason, we are facing an institution, which today represents the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela and the peoples of its framework, which is millennial; an institution that has remained essentially unchanged for all these centuries, despite the social and political changes of what is now Spain; for, as I say, not years, but centuries of history. It is an institution governed by its own ordinances adopted in 2014 adapting the previous ones of 1836, which in turn replace those of 1625. What we are dealing with here today is to bring to this plenary the opinion of the Committee on Justice after the presentation in charge of the report for the amendment of article 19 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, in order to introduce into it a fifth paragraph in order to recognize the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela as a customary and traditional court, as were already the Tribunal de les Aigües de Valencia and the Council of Men Buenos De Murcia. With the proposal to amend this article, the jurisdictional nature of an institution that already has legal recognition in the administrative field as a community of users or a community of regents under article 81 of the current Waters Act is fully and legally recognized; a community that also has the nature of a corporation governed by public law, as recognized in article 82 of that legal text. This public administrative nature allows the Privativo de Aguas to represent and manage the distribution and use of traditional irrigation water, the water coming from the Segura River, between the inheritances or portions of agricultural land irrigated with those waters, traditionally measured in tahulls, octaves, arms and palms. They are lands that are watered through millennial aqueducts called mother or elder acechias, ravines or minor acechias, bracelets and hijoles; lands that eventually drain their waterings into slippers, miserables and miserables, words all of them that in the Alicante garden of Segura sound old and worked hard, words that smell land and water. This traditional irrigation system has led in parallel to the management of water, in relation to the places of access to it and the times of irrigation, known as stops and tandas, respectively, the function of decisions on conflicts between regents, a jurisdictional function that has been given for centuries through the institution and its highest representative, today the judge on demand, president of the Court of Waters of the court, office that today holds by democratic election don Pedro Mompeán Madrid. This is precisely what the present proposed legal amendment deals with, the legal recognition of this jurisdictional nature of the Private Water Court of Orihuela in matters within its scope and according to its competence. It constitutes the consideration of this institution as a means of participation of citizens in the Administration of Justice, as expressly recognized in article 125 of the Spanish Constitution, together with other institutions such as that of the People's Jury or the People's Legislative Initiative. But it also constitutes in this case the recognition of an institution which is an indissoluble part of a people, of its history, of its heritage maintained for centuries, of a way of life and of social and economic activity such as agriculture and, therefore, of the management of that good which is of everyone, which is water. It has been shown that the regents of the Vega Baja del Segura know this good perfectly, that they know how to manage with criteria of efficiency and sustainability, as they have done for centuries and generations, to ensure precisely the continuity of their way of life. This way of life generates, as always, wealth for all of Spain and asks, ladies and gentlemen, memory and respect, calls for opportunities for development in order to be able to continue offering new glories to Spain, as indicated by the anthem of my community, of the Valencian Community; and it does so from that distant south sometimes forgotten of it, from Orihuela and from the Vega Baja del Segura. Ladies and gentlemen, as an Oriolan I am, as a councillor who I have been from my city - so I have also tried and discussed, when necessary, with the Private Water Court of Orihuela - I speak to you in this rostrum from that city, I speak to you from the heart, to inform you, of course, of the favourable vote of my group, Citizens, on this initiative; to request also that of all groups in the same direction, and, finally, to invite you, as it cannot otherwise be, to know when my land and its institutions, among them, and in any case, the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the peoples of its framework, when they so desire. An institution that is of my city, of Orihuela, but also of peoples that I do not want to mention today: Redovan, Bigastro, Jacarilla, Almoradí, Benejuzar, Algorfa, Callosa de Segura and Rafal. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u189	Thank you very much, Mr LópezBas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to make a brief intervention in a long plenary session and charged with the content that has already been discussed. I would not like to comment further on what has been discussed throughout today, because I believe that the companions who have come up to this rostrum before me have been very clear in leaving things to the ladies and gentlemen of VOX. But I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group to have a little more respect for the Members of this House. I don't know if you've noticed, but lately these people have come up with the use of imperatives and started with this 'look me in the eye', 'and now don't look at me' and whether the minister looks at me or doesn't look at me. Please, do you want to have a little respect and let people look or stop looking when they want to? Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, please. [[Applauds]] Anyway. Already going to the affairs of Alicante, Orihuela, and with regard to the initiative we are discussing, it is a text from the Senate, as has already been said. It is an initiative of the Confederal Left Parliamentary Group in the Upper House, an initiative which, by the way, we thank and subscribe to. And we do so because it seeks to amend article 19 of Law 6/1985 on the Judiciary to include the Private Water Court of Orihuela and its villages within the group of customary and traditional courts. As you know, there are already two similar institutions recognized as such: the Court of the Waters of the Vega of Valencia and the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia. Therefore, with this measure we do nothing but correct an anomaly by which the Oriolan garden did not enjoy the same recognition as its northern and southern sisters and neighbors, Valencia and Murcia. [[Rumors]] An anomaly that did not have, and does not have, any complete explanation for why, although it is entirely fair that the Valencian and Murcian orchards see recognized institutions as useful as centuries old, it is no less fair that the Private Water Court of Orihuela is also recognized in the same terms. Also for its practical value and historical value. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u191	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Guijarro. I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u192	Thank you, President. He said that institutions like this show us the importance of caring for the community ties that have been forged over the centuries and that still today they feed us all. In particular, and for this case, we are talking about something more than 7000 hectares and hundreds of kilometres of canals that have articulated these regions since time immemorial; the value of communitarianism or Gemeinsschaft, as German sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies would call it. The sequence to get to this point has not been short. Already the City Council of Orihuela, on 27 February 2013, requested recognition as a customary court; then, a year later, on 5 March, it was the Valencian Courts that unanimously ruled in the same direction, and seven years later we see ourselves here. Finally, it is never too late if the bliss is good, says the saying, although the bliss does not end up being completely good because there is still one final step to take to eliminate the aggravation that has suffered from the bass Segura and Vega Baja. I refer to UNESCO's recognition of this institution as the intangible heritage of humanity. That is why we trust in the good offices of our permanent representative there, Ambassador Andrés Perelló, in order to achieve that recognition as soon as possible and thus to put an end to that aggravation. Let's trust it to be as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mestre Barea has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u194	With your permission, President. Afternoon - afternoon already - Members. 'Near the water I want to take you 'because your curl transcends the sea. / Close to the water I want you to have / because you encourage your vivid being. / Close to the water I want you to feel / because foam teaches you to laugh'. Verses by Miguel Hernández, our poet from Orihuela. Water Verses, an object over which the Private Water Court of Orihuela has jurisdiction. Today we discussed the opinion of the Justice Commission on the proposed organic law amending the Organic Law of the Judiciary, in order to recognize the character of customary and traditional court to the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela and peoples of its framework. The Private Water Court of Orihuela is an entity that has been providing justice and managing irrigation for over a thousand years in the region. The irrigation in the Vega Baja del Segura began in isolation in Roman times, but it is during the Arab domination when the irrigation is implemented, an infrastructure is created and the administration and delivery of justice is created. [[Rumors]] Since this time, the Private Water Court of Orihuela has been administering irrigation and providing justice on more than 7,500 hectares of its jurisdiction. The Privativo de Aguas Court has been governed and presided over, as has been said, by a board of government formed by the water judge, who presides, the lieutenant judge and the syndicate general, all of whom are elected in Orihuela, your people and mine, the historic capital of the province of Alicante. Without this capital it would not be understood the existence of a water court, as it has historical capitals located in irrigation areas, such as Murcia and Valencia. [[Rumors]] The Vega Baja alicantina, together with the Murcia Garden and the irrigation areas of Almeria form an economic pole linked to the primary sector that is essential for the economy of southeastern Spain and that is the pantry of Europe. Every drop of water used in this area multiplies jobs and wealth and no one knows better than the farmers of the southeastern Spain how to adjust consumption so as not to waste a drop of water. For this reason, it is not understood why socialists and communists, whenever they have occasion, punish us the Alicantens, the Murcians and the Almerians by drowning our source of life more and more deeply: the Tajo Segura transfer. [[Applauds]] The transfer is the result of a policy of spatial planning, a successful policy that has allowed the consolidation of an agricultural sector of enormous vitality in the south-east of Spain and, in turn, has ensured the water supply of the urban supplies of numerous populations of the province, including large capitals such as Alicante, Elche, Torrevieja and Orihuela. Around 60% of the water for human consumption in the area comes from the transfer, making it a maintainer of the supply system. The surface watered with the flows of the Tajo Segura transfer covers more than 60% of the provincial irrigation, turning the orchards into real CO2 sinks. The drip irrigation is installed in more than 90% of that cultivated space; the gross economic value of the Tajo Segura aqueduct areas in the province of Alicante is more than EUR 500 million per year; the energy cost of transvase and postrasvase is 1.1 kilowatts per cubic meter, making its waters irreplaceable for irrigation, as the alternative of desalinated water is four times more expensive and environmentally harmful. But the transfers begin to be for the current government miracles of hydraulic engineering of the seventies of the 20th century in the process of extinction. That is, that the Executive, already without caps, returns to the Narbona clause, and its objective, allied with the radicalism of climate change, is the closure of an infrastructure without which it would be impossible to explain the development of the Vega Baja in the last forty years. Today the transfer is wounded to death. The Government condemns us to supply desalinated water, a resource that, in addition to the current finding that the boron containing the fields is drying, requires an energy consumption of more than 4 kilowatts per cubic metre and produces a large amount of waste in the desalinators, especially the brine, which is very toxic because it is composed of chemicals used in the desalination process, such as copper and chlorine. Vice President Ribera could visit Torrevieja and check how the macroplant driven by her partner Narbona, which cost more than 350 million euros, is not even connected to supply water to the 30,000 farmers scheduled. And now it's said: No, because energy expenditure is huge, we're going to put in a photovoltaic plant, 150 million more. But not this year, in future years; for this year there are only EUR 500 000. Defending that the reason for the closure of the transfer is the protection of nature, as we have been listening to since 2018, is a fake news that the province of Alicante cannot consent to; and defending that desalinated water is little more or less that the final solution is absolutely foolish. The Seguras Tagus irreplaceable. If the Government closes it, it will condemn the future of more than 2.5 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, we Spaniards need a national water policy, a courageous policy based on the principle that water is everyone's, because in Spain there is water for everyone. [[Applauds]] And to achieve this, we must recover the National Hydrological Plan and complete the interconnection of the basins. With this project VOX is absolutely committed and makes the same speech in any province of Spain. Finally, with this proposal for a law something has happened that is not usual in this Parliament and that I would like to highlight in conclusion: all the political groups have agreed with the Commission's opinion, there is absolute unanimity. A well-known columnist recently wrote that our Parliament reminded him of that Statue of Liberty that appears on the final scene of The Planet of Apes...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u195	Master, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u196	...overtaken, alone, half buried, food by forgetfulness and salt as a vestige of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, a reflection by a modest Member: we have to make ourselves look at it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u197	Thank you very much, Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. 'So much river that goes to the sea/where no water is needed. / So many fields that dry out. Ladies and gentlemen, these verses are from our Oriolan and universal poet Miguel Hernández, and precisely to claim and regulate the proper use of water in the Orihuela orchard has been occupied since time immemorial, as has been said, by the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela. Be my first words of appreciation to the President of the Water Court of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and to all the trustees and presidents who throughout history with good governance have managed the uses of water in the Vega Baja of the province of Alicante. It originated, as has also been said, in the privilege of 14 May 1275 of King Alfonso X the Wise. This is the first written standard known as water regulator in the Vega Baja del Segura. The news that is kept about these risks only reaches at the time of the conquest of Orihuela in the disposition of King Alfonso X the Wise, who proceeded to the distribution of the lands of the Vega Baja, although some attribute this great work to the Romans and others attribute it to the times of the Arabs. For more than 350 years, the regulations contained in the privilege constitute the management of the irrigation of the Oriolan garden. Jaime II of Aragon confirmed in the year 1323 the previous royal privileges and emphasized that the water affairs were exclusive competence of the envelope, not even allowing that the governor interfered in his decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, making a little more history, on 16 June 1501 Fernando the Catholic declared the same provisions and that the appeals were known to the jurors and council of the city; he even fined 1000 guilders of gold to the authorities who intervened in these matters of irrigation. These laws and ordinances remained in force, always responding with good government to the repeated complaints raised to the sovereign about abuses in the regime and distribution of water, such as the neglect of the cleaning of sieges and mischiefs, which had serious damage to agriculture, to real interests and also to particular interests. They are some examples of a court that throughout history has left a mark on the good work done in water management and its uses. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from a long time ago in history, together with the Court of the Waters of Valencia, and the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia, the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela has been governing the territories of the Segura River, exercising administrative and jurisdictional authority and resolving disputes between regents, heirs and others concerning the issue of irrigation and its waters. The court, with the passage of time and divided the ancient jurisdiction of Orihuela, dismembered, forming new ones in Almoradi, Callosa de Segura and Guardamar, replicas of the former. Today's regulations have been adapted to the different water laws - from 1866, 1879 and 1985 -, to the Spanish Constitution and also to the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. Ladies and gentlemen, the Private Water Court of Orihuela continues today, in the year 2021, managing the irrigation of the Vega Baja del Segura region and complying with the rules established centuries ago. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a respected and protected historical jewel. The Private Water Court of Orihuela is an entity that not only administers justice because, in addition, among the regents, it is an organ of peace. We owe a debt to Orihuela, Vega Baja, the province of Alicante and the Valencian Community. The recognition of the Private Water Court of Orihuela as a customary and traditional court and its inclusion as such in the Organic Law of the Judiciary is a right that has thousands of farmers who have historically been managing the proper use of water in a sustainable and responsible manner. But from the People's Parliamentary Group we do not want to stay here and with the history that supports us we urge that, after this approval, the process be started so that it is also declared an Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO, as are already the Court of Waters of Valencia and the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia. The farmers of Vega Baja, the neighbors of Orihuela, the history that precedes them and the future generations of Oriolans and Alicante deserve this recognition. I would also like to mention the enormous value of the Vega Baja garden of the Segura River for the cultural, social, economic and environmental landscape of the Mediterranean arc and the extraordinary role that has played throughout history in the good management of water in this wonderful land. In these times, in which we debate so much about the uses of water and its management, it is essential that, through the recognition of what we are witnessing today, we highlight what has been a commitment of the neighbors of Vega Baja and Alicante over the centuries to the uses of water, to the protection of the territory, to environmental sustainability and to making it possible for the garden of Europe - as you know the Vega Baja - to be a place with enormous environmental wealth and, at the same time, compatible with being a source of opportunities for its people. To recognize the character of a customary and traditional court at the Privativo de Aguas, therefore, is an act of justice and a further reason for pride for all Alicantens. I would not like to end my speech without sending a message to the Members of the Socialist Party and the political groups supporting the Government. Today we agree, we come to a consensus to put in value and recognize the good management of the millennial water of the people of Orihuela. From now on, let us also agree that the Vega Baja, Alicante, the southeast of Spain and the Levante never lack water and we can continue in the future recognizing and highlighting the good use of the water of that land. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Azorín Salazar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u200	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good evening. Today I am speaking for the first time from this rostrum to confirm the Socialist Group's vote in favour of this legislative initiative. I am a Member of Parliament, but above all, I am familiar with the geographical proximity of the Alicante region of Vega Baja. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we would not understand anything other than the favourable vote, but less we would understand it as Alicantens and Valencians. We already voted in favour of the Orihuela City Council, the Alicante Diputation, the Valencian Courts in March 2014, the Justice Commission and the Senate Plenary in September and December 2018, and we also re-voted in April at the Territorial Chamber Plenary. With our favourable vote today the Congress continues with the processing of this reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which implies the inclusion of the Private Water Court of Orihuela among the customary and traditional courts, guaranteeing the recognition of the Valencian tradition, Valencian jurisdiction, within the justice of the whole country. As you know, the Privativo de las Aguas de Orihuela is born of citizen reconciliation and self-government, above all, of social participation. Ratified by Alfonso X the Wise, the court comes to remind us of history and to highlight the reality of jurisdiction and the government of waters, waters and lands of the Vega Baja. I would also like to point out that the Privativo de las Aguas de Orihuela is more than an example of the ancestral historical jurisdiction worthy of the recognition already held by the millenary Court of the Waters of Valencia and the Council of Good Men of the Garden of Murcia, courts that have overcome historical adversities from the historical, military and legal point of view. Resist and you'll win. So real, that to show this proposal of law that is already enshrined in the 1978 Constitution, in its article 117, when it speaks of jurisdictional unity, or in article 125 when it speaks of constitutional and traditional courts recognizing its value. Moreover, today, after so long, we highlight the value of the word and mediation, something that this House sometimes lacks. The word as a source of dialogue and mediation as a system to relate, ultimately, understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hope that this will be the last attempt and that they will finally be given fair recognition of their status, not for equality, but for justice. We are talking about specific courts without which we would not understand the development of Alicante and Vega Baja, for social justice and for recognition. But this means something more, if something teaches us the Private Water Court of Orihuela, it is the culture of the pact and respect for institutions as the structural axis of progress. We've been watching a non-constant one for years. The last is the no for the change of the term diminished in the Spanish Constitution by persons with disabilities. It's inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes, those out there don't understand us, well, they don't understand them. They must agree, as they are doing today - so did the Socialists in the opposition - because society demands it, and try to agree when we are in government, because the People's Party, if it does not win, does not agree. In this sense, there has been a bad culture of sensationalism and phony water politics in our country. Enough of eternal disputes with the water, tie your shoulder. They shouted water for us all for a transfer from the Ebro that they knew the European Commission would never allow. Aznar took the picture and never started a shovel again. Then, when we ruled, they mounted demonstrations, paellas and chartered buses, always playing with the hopes of thousands of families dedicated for generations to agriculture. They came to the government with Rajoy and never again knew about the transfer, they didn't invest a euro, but we constantly listened to the canteen of 'the socialists cut us off from the water'. And that doesn't convince anyone anymore because, as Abraham Lincoln said, everyone can be fooled for some time, you can fool some of them all the time, but you can't fool everyone all the time. The just ecological transition is a commitment and the guarantee of water for human and productive consumption a right for which socialists continue to fight. Now it touches the sustainability and balance of the river basins of the Tagus Y del Segura, dialogue between Presidents Sánchez and Puig, because Mr López Miras of the Region of Murcia, after leaving the Sea Minor, is neither there nor expected. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, a few days ago Mr Casado, in Valencia, my land, was literally saying: Nothing to do in Spain can be done with those fists closed. For I say to you - speaking of water, agriculture and fists - that in order to harvest in my land we close our hands with force to cut the grape clusters, and thus we produce our excellent wines, as well as the table water of my region, that of the Vinalopó, with which we bid farewell the year and to collect oranges, mandarins and Valencian lemons - our citrus par excellence, incomparable - which are also cut to the waist of the fruit using scissors. And as we are in Orihuela and in the Vega Baja del Segura, to cultivate grenades, melons, sandstones and artichokes we need grooves and horses in our stands made with aces of farmers and farmers with tight fists and a lot of strength to fight and dignify our agriculture. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, the water has carried it, carried it and carried it by the party of the fist and the rose, of the fist worker and worker, the Socialist Party, which for over a hundred and forty years has always been with our farmers and farmers. [[Applauds]] You say you want a PP with open hands; with open hands you neither get up blinds nor work in the field. Open-handed, for what? Or, rather, for whom? Here the only ones with open hands are you, who have put them to receive envelopes in B for irregular financing. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u201	Mr Azorín, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u202	Let's change the water for everyone for the water forever. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u203	Thank you, Mr Azorín. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u204	We moved on to the last item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending Act No. 34/2006 of 30 October 2006 on access to the professions of lawyers and prosecutors of the courts, as well as Act No. 2/2007 of 15 March 2007 on professional societies, Royal Decree-Law No. 5/2010 of 31 March 2010 extending the validity of certain temporary economic measures, and Act No. 9/2014 of 9 May 2014 on General Telecommunications. Mr Bal Francés has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u205	Thank you, President. I will intervene directly from the seat because I will be very brief. It is simply a question of ratifying the five amendments that have been tabled by the Senate with regard to the reform of the Law on Access to Law and the Prosecutor's Office which imposes European legislation - the Services Directive, 2006/123 - and which seeks to make professions that are regulated by law and the Attorney's Office more flexible and liberal, so that the prosecutor's office can be exercised directly by the person who develops the law, but not simultaneously. It is a very technical issue where technical amendments have also been incorporated into the Senate, where there has been a high level of consensus in the process in Congress and in the Justice Commission, where Citizens have been admitted to two transactions and where there has actually been a climate of cooperation. This is what it has when a reform of Europe comes, which aims to liberalise the exercise of a regulated profession. We agree when we do not have to talk about politics, when we simply want to comply with Europe's obligations. I have heard this many times, less evil than Europe, where we agree with conservatives, liberals and social democrats on matters that are good for Spain. We shall vote in favour of all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u207	Thank you, President. We discussed and voted on the Senate's amendments to a law that also has a great consensus and that represents a great reform that is going to modernize and speed up the law and the demand. This law is of great relevance both for lawyers and lawyers and for prosecutors and prosecutors, as it adapts Spanish legislation to the requirements of European law regarding access and the conditions for the exercise of these professions, which obviously affects not only these professionals but also, because of the importance of the right to effective judicial protection in a democratic system, affects the entire citizenry. From my group we have already welcomed the broad consensus of this necessary law. That will of consensus is also now reflected in the position on the few amendments introduced by the Senate, and - as has been said - the amendments make it possible to exercise the guardianship of external practices by procurators. In addition, an exception to the professional title is added, concerning the assignment of officials performing legal assistance or legal advice functions, and also an amendment to the first transitional provision, on collegiate professionals upon the entry into force of this law and to the final provision extending the time limit for regulatory clearance. As I said, our position also seeks to reproduce now and here that necessary consensus, once again, on issues that are important for quality justice and that bring us closer to European parameters. This law will make access to the public prosecutor's office more flexible, so that the persons exercising the legal profession can assume - it has already been said - that technical representation of the parties and carry out the rest of the functions that are peculiar to the procurators, stating that this simultaneous exercise will not be possible in order to guarantee professional independence. In other words, the same academic degree, degree or degree in law, and the same training, the same master's degree, will be required for both professions. Joint professional societies operating in the Office of the Attorney-General and the Office of the Attorney-General are also allowed, and the total amount that a procurator or procurator may earn in the same case is limited to EUR 75,000, while any minimum limit is eliminated. It should be recalled that the Committee on Justice of this House has already tested some changes in the initial text which incorporate, for example, that training in external practices will be promoted and taught in all official languages, the role of the corresponding bodies of the autonomous communities in issuing professional qualifications or conducting studies in any of the official languages, and training in self-government law. As I said, the issue transcends professional issues, as lawyers occupy a fundamental position in the defence of human rights and access to legal aid, which is a fundamental part of our system. We do not doubt that there is still much work to be done, for the construction of a guaranteed justice that is closer to the citizenry, so the Members of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs are placed to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u209	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Look, the hollow slogans of this government of the lie and of Sánchez's unconstitutionality sentences provoke just the opposite: we advanced in the rise of light, today six times more expensive than a year ago; they left behind tens of thousands of dead; they left all the citizens, the self-employed, the fishermen, the farmers, the olive growers - with whom today we have been gathered on the street, outside, on the fence - the farmers, the entrepreneurs, and now it is the turn of the prosecutors with the false excuse to pretend to adapt to European law. This law is a big mistake and it actually involves the demolition of a profession with centuries of history, which is already regulated in the Seven Party Code, by Alfonso X the Wise. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no red line in Brussels here. One of two, either have explained it very badly or have not fought hard enough for the demand. On the one hand, the participation of prosecutors' colleges in the training of new professionals is rejected and the current parity of the members of their board for evaluation is eliminated. It is the prosecutor, not as a tutor of professional futures but as an indispensable collaborator. Faced with this, the Senate's amendments soften somewhat, but in reality they are pure makeup of an already disfigured face. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, this reform opens the door for future studies to be conducted only in the regional language of the territory concerned, violating the right to equality of Spaniards and the right to use Spanish, articles 14 and 3 of the Spanish Constitution. One more step in this absurd process initiated years ago by the left, with the follow-up of the People's Party, which translates into the use of the regional languages as an instrument of separation, of division among the Spanish. You can be sure that VOX will put an end to so much nonsense and bring back unity and cohesion between all the lands and regions of Spain. [[Applauds]] In addition, this law struck the procurator's profession very hard by eliminating the minimum fees for the calculation of his fees. The minimum tariff was thus far the trench of the liberal professional who allowed him to exercise his profession with dignity and freedom. From the loneliness of his office it was the shield to prevent any abuse of power from other sectors from forcing unworthy work. Those who call themselves progressives and anti-liberals leave without any protection thousands of professionals in their hands and the arbitrariness of large entities and platforms. The omnibus law, the umbrella law, the doctrine made it clear that the minimum tariff is perfectly possible and that it can and must meet only three requirements. Firstly, do not discriminate and it is clear that it does not currently have any difference in treatment on the grounds of nationality, residence or any other. Secondly, it responds to a general interest and everyone knows that it protects the recipient of the service, who is the justiciable, and is a guarantee of the quality of the Administration of Justice. And, thirdly, if provided, the intervention and control of the Legislative makes it a small percentage on the procedural cost and proof of it is that currently the fees date from 2003 - eighteen years without being updated - and in many cases it is ridiculous, for example, to conduct a court order before the Registry of Property that can involve an entire morning, 13, 22 euros; for the fee of a divorce by mutual agreement, 52 euros. The three conditions are met by a tariff which was not eliminated either by the Law on Professional Colleges or by the law establishing the new Judicial Office or by Royal Decree 5/2010. The Council of State has already reminded us that even the Court of Justice of the European Union considered the Spanish system of prosecutors' tariffs in accordance with European law. You do not listen to or directly circumvent the opinion, as you have done today with the democratic memory bill. The amendments that we are debating today submitted by the Senate do not solve the disaster of this law, only VOX bets to maintain the tariff limit. The effects of its elimination will not lead to further liberalisation of prices, the free market or free competition, but rather the opposite effect: its widespread fall, the 1-euro lawsuit or the entry on the payroll as an employee. It would be like eliminating the minimum wage of a worker on behalf of others. Do not forget that the European directive called for ensuring independence and impartiality in certain activities, their ethical requirements and in particular with regard to professional secrecy. Faced with this, the professional who holds the technical representation in complex processes will disappear, who is guaranteed in the application of fundamental rights in the procedures of communication and procedural impulse, in the exercise of activities belonging to the Public Service, and the liaison with the citizen, among many other issues. This harms the administration of justice, because if they want a swift justice, the figure of the prosecutor is essential. Get your hands out of justice, let the judges choose themselves by the judges, get your hands out of the prosecutor's office, get your hands out of the state's attorney's office, and now get me out of the procurator's office. [[Applauds]] Do you really imagine a Justice without prosecutors? This is what the Government intends to bring us with the consent of all of you, who are the ones who give oxygen and strength, as you have shown today with the renewal of the constitutional bodies. If you think that the procurator's profession should disappear, be brave, look them in the face and say it openly, that you are free, but your freedom will be limited to choosing whether to sell your job at a balance price or'leave the profession; freedom to disappear. We are before the government of desolation and ruin. For this, do not count on VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u210	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said, the objections that the European Commission has been making for years to our system of technical and procedural representation before the courts of justice are well known; objections that have led to infringement proceedings 4062 in 2015. And this, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is a problem that had to be solved. It is true that, with this rule to be adopted today, we adapt our legislation to the provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 25 of Directive 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council on Internal Market Services. We do so in accordance with Articles 49 and 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, with regard to the existence of a more flexible reserve of activity for the exercise of the demand. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u212	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u213	Also with this reform we regulate the incorporation of lawyers and prosecutors into multidisciplinary societies, ensuring that both professionals will maintain their own competencies, responsibilities and obligations. In any case, we are obliged to make some criticisms of what has happened during the process of this reform in the Senate, as some of the amendments that we consider important have been rejected by the majority group and its partners, which leads us not to be able to support the resulting text. But it is not only that they have rejected all our amendments, which may be legitimate, that what is unacceptable is that the Socialist Group in the Senate has refused, no longer to debate, but that it has not even been able to speak with the People's Parliamentary Group about its amendments. An improper health cord of parties that call themselves democratic; a poorly democratic attitude that accredits the lack of respect for the constitutional powers assigned to us by the members of the General Courts. It is said by the People's Parliamentary Group and has also been said by the Constitutional Court in its recent ruling, in which it acknowledges the violation of the rights of all Members of Parliament and Senators by the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we cannot come here and to the Senate, day and day too, to accuse the opposition of unwillingness to reach agreements, to put sticks on the wheels and then, at the time of truth, to refuse to speak with the majority opposition group of the initiatives or amendments that it presents, as has happened in the Senate and as is the case here on other occasions. And these are the facts, the propaganda already put it by the spokesman of the Socialist Party at the previous point in the meeting that gave us at the end of his intervention. Of course, the premiere in Mrs Llop's upper house as Minister of Justice does not allow for a minimum dialogue. Although it is true that they were already warned in the Senate, she has been the only president of the Upper House who has annulled the legal vote in plenary on an initiative that the People's Parliamentary Group had succeeded in approving to reduce the VAT on hairdressers. Similarly, Mrs Llop's opening in the State General Budgets cannot be more disappointing, reducing the number of judges committed to associations by 33%. As far as the amendments are concerned and as far as the fees for prosecutors are concerned, the change in the system that you will adopt today is more than questionable, as it goes from the current situation of setting minimums to setting ceilings for the prosecutor; a limit which, in our view, is clearly insufficient and which is ill-suited to the declared desire to dignify the exercise of procedural representation. The maximum quantitative limit for procedures to be achieved in terms of fees, which you now set at EUR 75,000 for procedural representation, in practice and in application of the doctrine of the Supreme Court set in 2017, is reduced to just EUR 25 000 per instance. Nothing less than a cut of 66% on the current situation; a cut that we consider unfair and that we cannot support. I would like you to reflect on the aggravation for prosecutors that the government limits its fees by up to 66% and, however, a few days later that same government raises its salary by 2%. What do you think the more than eleven thousand prosecutors in Spain will think? Is this the just recovery that you boast of, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? From the Legislature we are obliged to dignify the profession of the lawyer and the prosecutor as collaborators of the Administration of Justice, but with this reform you do not dignify the profession, losing the opportunity to value the effort made by the prosecutors at the most critical moments of the pandemic, in which you continued to carry out your work with admirable professionalism while the Government excluded them from all kinds of aid and, in many cases, even left them without a vacation by a decree of Mr Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law it is true that some problems are solved and it is also true that we avoid a possible sanction from the European Union, but in the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that with the approval there will be an injustice with the prosecutors and we also believe that a great opportunity has been missed to solve many other problems, such as the work reconciliation of lawyers and prosecutors, which you have refused to discuss, and that which you claim to be social politicians and which you claim to be feminists. That is why my group will abstain in today's vote. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u215	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. This last point of today's plenary session, as explained, reflects the Senate's amendments to the amendment of Law 34/2006, on access to the professions of lawyer and prosecutor of the courts. Firstly, I would like to thank all the political groups for the work they have done in bringing amendments to this bill, which now incorporates the amendments to the Senate, where I am aware that a great deal of effort has been made to include or negotiate some of the thirty-three amendments tabled, and which, finally, enjoys the support of the majority, will be adopted today. It should be recalled that this draft seeks to bring Spanish legislation into line with Directive 2006/123 of the Parliament and of the Council of Europe on services in the internal market and seeks to respond to the objections of the European Commission made in the infringement procedure initiated against Spain in 2015, concerning access to the exercise of the professions of lawyer and prosecutor of the courts. This change is therefore due to the fact that it is necessary to comply with what Europe says. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we must comply with what Europe says. This is it. You can believe it or you can't believe it. The infringement procedure is there. Obviously, we will not want to convince you of something that comes to be almost a matter of faith for you. Therefore, this change, as I say, is due to what Europe has demanded of us, and it is here, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, where its most absolute inconsistency enters. When we talk about the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, argue that we must conform to what Europe says and do not care as little as we have for 1030 days without renewing the General Council of the Judiciary. You said your honor of the PP here that you are the party that represents the democratic attitude and that we have constitutional powers. For, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if you want to start applying those constitutional powers, we welcome that principle of agreement to renew the constitutional bodies, but you are already slow to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] Now, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you seem to be aware of the damage that is being done to democracy in our country. Let's see if we can culminate in a good predisposition to dialogue that is so important for Spain. It will be you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who have to explain why you want to renew the rest of the organs but keep the blockade on the General Council of the Judiciary, wanting to change the rules of the game with the started party. But when Europe says that this bill has to be made yes or yes, you do not like it, hence the announcement that you do not support this bill and that you have abstained in the Senate. That's your consistency, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. Their lack of State sense leads them to attack the Government of Spain without realizing it or, more terribly, they do. But in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are satisfied with the work done in the Committee on Justice, both in Congress and in the Senate. This law, as you know, bases its modifications on three aspects. The first is that of the existence of a reserve of activity for the exercise of the power of attorney, allowing lawyers also to exercise as prosecutors. A ban on multidisciplinary societies that may include advocacy and solicitorship. And the modification of the tariff system. Indeed, the Senate's amendments are further improving, if any, the text that came out of the Congressional Justice Commission, working from dialogue and consensus with all political groups. Ladies and gentlemen, with this project we have made the lawyers and the procurator's office at the European level, giving the candidates flexibility in their ability to direct their career towards one or the other professional exercise. Amendment 3 is incorporated so that professional societies that so far combine a single profession can include the figure of the prosecutor and protect independence and respect for matters being dealt with within the same professional society, including as a new modification the forecasts of the ethical standards of the respective professions. It also includes the possibility of guardianship in external practices when it can be carried out by a procurator and is requested by those who will carry out the practices. Those officials of Group A who have been granted a degree in law and who perform legal assistance or legal advice functions shall be exempted from obtaining the professional qualification prescribed by this law. We have worked in inclusive language - and I say this in the session that we have experienced so important today - and where the law of lawyers and prosecutors was said today there is talk of the law of law and the procuratorship. We have heard a lot about the elimination of tariffs to the prosecutor's office, but what has not been explained is that it was an imposition of the European Services Directive, which imposed on Spain its elimination, but still managed to maintain it in exchange for eliminating minimum tariffs and limiting ceilings. These are measures which, above all, seek consumer protection, which in these cases is usually the weakest link. The establishment of the maximum overall amount of EUR 75 000 for rights earned by procurators in the same procedure has been another element of debate and constant criticism by the People's Party and VOX. But what has not been said is that the law itself incorporates that, exceptionally and justifiedly, this limit may be exceeded provided that the judge authorizes it. In addition, the extension of the deadline for adoption is added as an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by thanking the political groups that have constructively improved this text. Today we are starting a path towards the homogenization of these professions. Above all, I would like to thank these professionals for their efforts over the last few months of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u216	Mrs. Araujo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u217	And above all, I want to highlight their constant adaptation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u218	Thank you very much, Mrs. Araujo. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin voting in less than a minute. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. I ask you, please, if you have to leave the Chamber, to do so as quickly as possible and to sit in the seat with your name on it. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u219	We begin with motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the measures envisaged to reduce disaster caused by drowning and accidents in aquatic areas. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 184 plus 164 by telephone, 348; in favour, 184 plus 160 by telephone, 344; abstentions, 4 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u220	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the proposal made by the Government to eliminate THE EXTRAORDINARY BENEFIT FOR AUTONOMS WITH LOSS REVENUE BY THE ACTIVITY COMMITTEE. [[File number 173/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u221	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the proposal made by the Government to eliminate the extraordinary benefit for low-income self-employed persons for cessation of activity. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 164 by telephone, 348; in favour, 83 plus 69 by telephone, 152; against, 97 plus 77 by telephone, 174; abstentions, 4 plus 18 by telephone, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u222	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be adopted by the Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, to ensure the fulfilment of the principle of legality in external policy. [[File number 173/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u223	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Group on the measures to be taken by the Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, to ensure compliance with the principle of legality in foreign policy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 183 plus 164 by telephone, 347; in favour, 83 plus 59 by telephone, 142; against, 100 plus 97 by telephone, 197; abstentions, 8 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u224	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR TO PROTECT TO OUR FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 173/000101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u225	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Ministry of the Interior to protect our State Security Forces and Bodies in Catalonia. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 184 plus 164 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 83 plus 68 telematics votes, 151; against, 101 plus 96 telematics votes, 197.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u226	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u227	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 17/2021 of 14 September 2021 on urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas on retail gas and electricity markets. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 184 plus 161 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 97 plus 85 telematics votes, 182; against, 83 plus 67 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 4 plus 9 telematics votes, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u228	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 161 by telephone, 345; in favour, 83 plus 78 by telephone, 161; against, 101 plus 81 by telephone, 182; abstentions, 2 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u229	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2021, OF 28 SEPTEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE PROTECTION OF EMPLOYMENT, ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE WORK MARKET. [[File number 130/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u230	Royal Decree-Law 18/2021 of 28 September on urgent measures for the protection of employment, economic recovery and improvement of the labour market. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 184 plus 164 by-laws, 348; in favour, 183 plus 111 by-laws, 294; against, 1; abstentions, 53 by-laws.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u231	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 184 plus 164 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 83 plus 95 telematics votes, 178; against, 101 plus 61 telematics votes, 162; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u232	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u233	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the bill on the remuneration of unissued CO2 from the electricity market, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 162 by telephone, 346; in favour, 84 plus 60 by telephone, 144; against, 100 plus 98 by telephone, 198; abstentions, 4 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u234	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u235	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the democratic memory bill submitted by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 184 plus 163 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 83 plus 68 telematics votes, 151; against, 101 plus 95 telematics votes, 196.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u236	The amendments are therefore rejected in their entirety. [[Applauds]] Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law on democratic memory submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 164 by telephone, 348; in favour, 1 plus 30 by telephone, 31; against, 179 plus 129 by telephone, 308; abstentions, 4 plus 5 by telephone, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u237	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u238	The plenary of the House has requested the final deliberation and vote of this bill. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 163 by telephone, 347; in favour, 180 plus 158 by telephone, 338; against, 4 plus 4 by telephone, 8; abstentions, 1 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u239	Consequently, the draft law is being submitted to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u240	Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft Organic Law for the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 184 plus 164 telematics votes, 348; 55 telematics votes, 101 plus 104 telematics votes, 205; abstentions, 83 plus 5 telematics votes, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u241	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety. [[Applauds]] Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft Organic Law for the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 163 by telephone, 347; in favour, 83 plus 8 by telephone, 91; against, 101 plus 143 by telephone, 244; abstentions, 12 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u242	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u243	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposed Organic Law amending Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, to recognize the character of a customary and traditional court to the Private Water Court of Orihuela and its people. [[Alicante/Alacant]] We are voting in the first place on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 184 plus 164 by telephone, 348; in favour, 184 plus 162 by telephone, 346; abstentions, 2 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u244	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u245	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 183 plus 164 by telephone, 347; in favour, 183 plus 161 by telephone, 344; abstentions, 3 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u246	Accordingly, the draft organic law was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u247	Draft Act amending Act No. 34/2006 of 30 October 2006 on access to the professions of lawyers and prosecutors of the courts, as well as Act No. 2/2007 of 15 March 2007 on professional societies, Royal Decree-Law No. 5/2010 of 31 March 2010 extending the validity of certain temporary economic measures, and Act No. 9/2014 of 9 May 2014 on telecommunications. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 184 plus 162 by telephone, 346; in favour, 102 plus 102 by telephone, 204; against, 52 by telephone; abstentions, 82 plus 8 by telephone, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-14-CD211014.u248	The amendments were therefore adopted. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was seven and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
