ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion of the agenda of this sitting from item 13, corresponding to the oral question by Mrs Montserrat Bassa Coll. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u2	We begin with the debate of taking into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the statutory regime of staff that integrates the national bodies of penitentiary institutions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. Today we are faced with a great opportunity to start a parliamentary process that will once and for all pay off the State's debt to prison officials. The work of these officials is essential for the proper functioning of the democratic system in the area of the enforcement of sentences, and it is therefore necessary to recognize as appropriate their work of custody and reintegration of those sentenced to deprivation of liberty. However, it is evidence that prison officials have felt socially marginalized and discriminated against in their working conditions. They all have the impression that they are invisible and that their problems are also locked up in prisons. All of us, all of us in the parliamentary groups, have heard them not only in the last few days but in the last few years, and we know very well that they feel that way. We can therefore all feel responsible for this situation, including the People's Party. That is why it is time to respond to this long conflict, it is time for us to do something for them. The public servants of prison institutions deserve the recognition of society and we, representatives of that society, must carry it out in the form of laws. But in order to achieve this we have to start the road this afternoon in Congress, taking into consideration the proposed statutory law of the staff that integrates the national bodies of penitentiary institutions. We must bear in mind that in our prison system some sixty-six thousand inmates live together in sixty-nine prisons with prison officials for the purpose of serving sentences, security measures and pre-trial detention, in a complex regime of limitation of their rights. It is clear that the risks to the physical integrity of public employees in prisons are enormous, to the extent that the specific protocol for dealing with attacks in prisons and social inclusion centres under the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions was approved, after negotiation and agreement, and subsequently published by a resolution of 8 June 2017, the General Secretariat. In this area, the work of prison officials has to be developed, which constitutes obvious singularities, since any right or duty of an official acquires a unique profile, given the target users of that service. It is therefore recognised that the work of prison officials is carried out in a unique environment and, consequently, the need to provide these officials with a legal regime of legal rank that brings together the particularities of their work, enabling them to exercise their rights better and thus to fulfil their duties better. A unique legal regime such as this one is not a novelty in our public employment law. The existence of unique regimes is explicitly reflected in the Basic Status of Public Employees Act. The People's Group is collecting in this legal proposal a number of complaints that are being filed by all prison officials, regardless of their ideology or union affiliation. We present a bill that is a giant step towards ensuring proper regulation of their rights and duties within a framework of legal and personal security. No one had previously proposed a legal text for a harmonic system and guaranteed the statutory regime of prison officials. Quite the contrary, we have to regret that the Ministry of the Interior has encouraged the division of prison officials to torpedo any recognition of their claims. So, as you all know well, he convened a delegated negotiating bureau of prison institutions to negotiate a body law; a negotiation that did not advance at any time because of the lack of sincere political commitment by the current government and its hidden desire to make it fail. The proposal for a law that we are discussing today recognizes that the current legal framework for the structuring and organization of these bodies of officials is deficient. It is dispersed, partly obsolete and does not properly regulate the specificities of your work. This situation commits us to its profound and urgent reform. The volume, dispersion and age of the rules in force in this sector is a source of obvious legal uncertainty. In our group we argue that in the legal system, in any area, the constitutional principle of legal certainty must prevail, and this should be the main objective of this House: to always legislate to guarantee that legal certainty to the Spaniards, think about what they think and belong to the union that they belong to. Spain has reinforced the guarantee character of our prison legislation and, therefore, the obligations that affect officials, which must at all times facilitate the exercise of all the rights and obligations of inmates, something that sometimes creates tensions in the prison space, and you all know and know it well. Our group believes that it is possible to improve the safety of inmates and their custodians and their coexistence in prisons. In this text we include concrete proposals to achieve this. As I have explained during my speech, it is believed that the work of prison officials is carried out in a unique environment and, therefore, it is necessary to offer these officials a legal regime of legal rank that brings together the particularities of their work, allowing a better exercise of their rights and a better fulfillment of their duties. We believe that our bill is a good instrument to initiate the necessary updating of the statutory regime of these public servants. In this regard, the proposed legal text regulates the structure, areas and services; entry into the corps; professional career; horizontal and vertical internal promotion; training and mobility; recognition as agents of the authority; the presumption of veracity and the obligation of political impartiality; labour security, comprehensive protection at work and legal defence; improvement of prison health; commitment to improve their salaries and working conditions to match those of officials in autonomous prisons; disability; overcapacity; second activity and retirement; trade union representation and collective bargaining; and improvement of the public image of prison officials, among many other aspects. All groups represented in this House have a wide knowledge of the demands of prison officials because we have all held constant meetings with their representatives here today, too, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to thank them for their work, their efforts and their commitment to improving the socio-occupational conditions of all prison workers. And, in addition, encourage them not to decline, to continue to defend what affects them and what they are committed to. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to give concrete expression to our commitment, to the commitment of Members, to fulfil the word which many of us have promised in many cases. And in this sense, the People's Parliamentary Group brings this proposal here, because we are convinced that it is time to bet on defending essential public workers who feel abandoned and deceived, and in our hand it is to avoid and change it. I commit myself, on behalf of the Group, to taking a step forward in the processing of a viable text in order to achieve a sufficient majority for its consideration and, at the same time, to a procedure open to the contributions of the rest of the political groups during the parliamentary process so that its adoption can be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the vast majority of us agree on the fundamentals of the proposal: recognition as agents of authority; political impartiality; labour security; overall improvement of their status as officials; improvement of prison health; firm commitment to achieving the equalization of their economic wages with all prison officials, as well as the possibility of negotiating the regulation of Group B. The proposal for a law of the People's Group seeks to reach a broad consensus of the groups; we do not seek confrontations or any political revenue, we want to improve the provision of the prison service, the social estimation of prison officials and thus their socio-occupational conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, as I was telling you throughout my speech, you have been with all of us, in our provinces, in our autonomous communities and also here in Parliament. We've been shown their assaults. We know that one will happen today, because those are the data from our prisons. They tell us that they need us by their side; they have - remember - no political or trade union affiliation, they are unique and exclusively public servants who, from plurality, defend their rights and we have a responsibility to guarantee them. Today is a day when we have a chance not to let them down. From the People's Parliamentary Group we ask all of you to support this parliamentary initiative, to take it into consideration, as I said throughout my speech, from the plurality, then to seek to materialize a statute that responds to the interests of each and every civil servant of penitentiary institutions. Thank you all very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The PRC has always denounced the situation of prison officials in Spain. Precisely, the president of Cantabria and general secretary of the party, Miguel Ángel Revilla, has been one of the most active politicians in this denunciation. I myself have also had the opportunity to speak and even to meet with members of this group. Today we find a proposal for a law to create a new functional statute, independent of the Basic Staff Regulations. The truth is that I do not think that this approach is the most appropriate as it comes, because the main claim to which we have publicly joined was to give them the status of agents of authority in the exercise of their functions. Because I do not think it is necessary to convince anyone that the situation in which these officials work has a component of danger that the majority of public officials do not have, because they must deal directly every day with people who are not precisely characterized by respect for the law. Think of the vigilantes, psychologists, and health care workers in their day-to-day lives. That's why they need special support. However, in order to achieve that, I do not think that a new statute is necessary, with the implications it entails. It can be done directly by amending the General Penitentiary Act or the Criminal Prosecution Act. Apart from that, most of the problems of prison officials can be solved directly by the Government, not by means of a law, which is the provision of places, the lack of material means, the aggravation of comparison with other bodies of the Administration and its complement of destination. You think that, for example, a prison director has, at most, a level 26, when it is the complement with which many bodies are entered, there are even bodies in which one enters with a level 28 directly and already exhausts the administrative career from the beginning. I therefore believe that a position of this responsibility should have at least a level 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u6	Mr. Mazón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u7	I'm on my way. I do not think that even most trade unions fully agree with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the group of prison officials is a special group, as both the spokesman Mr Mazón and the spokesman for the People's Party, Mrs Gamarra, have said during the presentation of this bill, that we see it logical and necessary in its terms. It is true that it is a collective which, moreover, in recent years has been losing working conditions, has been worsening its situation and therefore deserves a real response. Because it is true that they have met many for many years, they have received very good words, but in the end their problems are not solved and they feel like an abandoned collective. In that regard, we understand that they have a special impact and that this proposal for a law is therefore necessary. We assume that the argument, in this case of the parties supporting the Government, will not be to say that the People's Party could have already done so when it ruled. That, as a political critic, is fine, but it does not solve the problem to anyone. Therefore, if it is true that we have to solve it, what needs to be done is to take into account this proposal and, if there are other formulas - it is said that there may be other formulas - that are real and that these legal amendments are brought to the House. Those formulas at the moment we haven't seen. There is now a proposal that can be taken into consideration to then make the necessary modifications, but what we cannot do under any circumstances is to leave prison officials abandoned. Obviously, little will be expected of the Ministry of the Interior. It is evidence that the Ministry of the Interior is concerned about other issues. At the moment, as far as prisons are concerned, he is more concerned about how to make a transfer than about how to solve the problems of all public workers and employees serving all Spaniards in Spanish prisons. He is more interested in transferring a competition without solving the problem of those workers who have to carry out that competition, because, at the moment, he is more in a hurry to fulfil those political commitments made in this case with Euskal Herria Bildu than, of course, to comply with the commitments made with all prison officials over the last few years. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed law. We understand that it would be better for the Ministry of the Interior to worry more about prison officials than about how to transfer prison powers to the Basque Autonomous Community in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr PSOE, Mr PP and Mr Podemos, this Member was the first, for a personal reason, to receive prison officials a few years ago. At that time he ruled the PP, and the PSOE and Podemos were in opposition. I organized the first meeting with Podemos and the PSOE, and as they were in the opposition, they supported prison officials. The PP, who was in the government, said yes, that they were going to do some things, that it wasn't the priority, that I don't know what and I don't know how many. Now it changes: they govern PSOE and Podemos, and the PP is in opposition; and so now Podemos seems to be not going to approve the consideration, the PSOE do not know and the PP proposes this to us, with what I agree, because prison officials are public servants and are in very precarious working conditions, defenseless in many cases and, from here I want to show my solidarity with all those prison officials, including several in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, who have been assaulted in recent times, in addition to the tension that the COVID has created within the prisons. That being said, I do not think it is enough for the Group of the European People's Party, which does not go into all the matters which concern, on the one hand, the guarantees for the exercise of work in full safety, and, on the other hand, certain questions of overcrowding and working conditions and many things that I hope, as it has very well offered and I very much thank the spokesperson for the PP, which we can implement during the processing period. I don't want to end without talking about what was a movement that said, 'Your abandonment can kill me', which can't happen again. We cannot abandon public servants, as I say, in prisons that are overcrowded, which do not meet the conditions they must have in the twenty-first century. In addition, with modules that they do is not to reintegrate people into society, but simply to put them there; and let's not talk about the psychiatric issue or any other kind of attention. I conclude by saying that it is a huge satisfaction for me to vote in favour of this bill, that I would like us all to do so and to change it in the process, as was the commitment that the PSOE and Podemos had to the police unions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u13	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group presents a proposal for a law on the establishment of the statutory regime for the staff of penitentiary institutions, staff who, as they know, will move to the Basque Country to join the Civil Service of the Basque Government following the agreement reached between the latter and the Government of the State for the transfer of the human and material resources necessary for the exercise of their powers in prison matters, as set out in Articles 10.14 and 12.1 of the Statute of Gernika, which will enable the Basque institutions to take over the almost seven hundred public employees who will be integrated into the Civil Service, in their Public Service, and to set up the corresponding negotiating tables to discuss their claims and to empower, without prejudice, of course, the powers of the prison courts, the management of a prison model based on the three mistakes: re-education, re-socialization and reintegration of the sentenced. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially those who call themselves constitutionalists but who in turn decide which parts of the block of constitutionality must be complied with by all and which not by them, those who refuse to comply with the organic laws that approved the statutes of autonomy, those who have expressed themselves against the fact that Euskadi exercises, among other things, his powers in prison matters, to these constitutionalists, I would like to remind you of what the Constitutional Court said more than twenty-one years ago about the transfer processes. I literally read: As long as the personal and material means necessary and essential for the exercise of a statutory competence assumed by an autonomous community have not been transferred, the exercise of that competence will still be the responsibility of the State, but it is clear that such an exercise must be considered anomalous because it is provisional and the provisional cannot continue to be so indefinitely. Therefore - it continues - any delay in the fulfilment of the powers would entail an undue prolongation of that provisionality and a serious obstacle to the full effectiveness of the division of powers. And he goes on to say: The constitutional loyalty binds everyone and in the field in which we are concerned is the Government, which is most responsible for the effective completion of the division of powers, who must exteriorly be jealous in order to reach agreements in the relevant Joint Commission, thanks to which the corresponding ones can be issued - and he points out - binding royal decrees of transfers. I'm closing the date. Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget, putting obstacles and delays to the full effectiveness of the division of powers is a constitutional anomaly, a violation of the principle of constitutional loyalty, and the decrees of transfers to be able to exercise the powers of the constitutional bloc of what is called the Territorial Constitution are not potent, but forced and postponing sine die constitutes a violation of the same Constitution and its principles. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of prison institutions, and more specifically on the content of the initiative we are debating, I would like to point out that we will not support it and not because we do not believe that the bodies of prison officials, whose regulations date from before the same General Prison Law, should not be adapted to the current and future needs, defining themselves, updating their functions, promoting professional careers and their specialties, training, access, administrative situations or even, as we already deal with in the XII Legislature, the reform of Article 80 of the General Prison Organic Law, but because we believe that this work should be undertaken by the Government and completed by this House in view of the draft law submitted to us, after processing, consultations and mandatory opinions integrating the administrative file that is being transferred to us together with the draft. We know that this is the procedure being followed by the Ministry of the Interior, through the preparatory work of the Delegated Bureau of Prison Institutions with trade union organizations, for a law on prison bodies. That is why we do not consider it right to initiate in this House the processing of a proposal for a law with the same purpose as is proposed to us today, but without any record or implementation plan or economic memory regarding a staff that we have to remember is about 25,000 public employees. As far as the content of the initiative is concerned, I will now focus on only two issues, without prejudice to many other issues that we consider important and which we do not share. The first is that for the statutory regime of prison officials the EBEP, the Basic Staff Regulations, is declared to be of extra application, thus breaking the nuclear and basic function that this statute plays for all public employees of all public administrations and their public sectors. And the second objection to which he referred concerns the status of a national body which he wants to grant them, forgetting the competences which some autonomous communities hold in prisons - among others, the Basque Country and Catalonia - and which involve the integration in their public functions of those public servants who carry out their activity in prisons managed by those, without, of course, prejudice to the subjection to EBEP. In short, ladies and gentlemen, neither in the form - that is, the procedure that is intended to be followed - nor on substantive issues will we support the initiative at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When the Administration of Justice decides that a citizen should be placed in a prison, with all the guarantees and because it has clearly broken some of the precepts of our Criminal Code, we take away from him the most important right that all citizens have, which is the right to liberty. All the fundamental rights that citizens have are important, but perhaps freedom is the greatest of them all. We take away that right and order prison officers to take custody of it, logically under the supervision of prison guardianship judges. We include that citizen in a centre, a prison that most citizens don't want to hear about, because they don't want to know, they don't want to have them even near their homes, they don't want them to be near the population centers - we put them outside the municipalities, as far away as we can - and we lock that citizen between four walls, but that's not why we deprive him of the rest of the rights he has as a citizen. Precisely, we instruct prison officials to continue to maintain those rights. The work of prison officials I would call it incredible and heroic, because we are in charge of the most difficult, which is probably dealing with the most complicated segment of citizens that there are - those who have delinquent, those who have gone against our legal system - and, moreover, we are in charge of it under the worst conditions and we do not want to know anything about them. We lock them up, we put them inside the prison walls, because the officials themselves work there, and we don't want to know anything about them. We don't give them any visibility. We don't want to hear what's going on inside the prisons. We do not want to know or know about the problems that staff members have or the problems that inmates have. I believe that this is a democratic anomaly, because the Executive, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have never wanted to know anything about this, and it is a duty of the rest of the Members of this House, of this Congress of Deputies, of the Legislature, to put it into value. From here I want to highlight the work that prison officials do not only for the inmates in their re-education work, but also for the rest of the citizens, playing an ungrateful role, without adequate compensations that we do not want to hear, that we do not want to know and that we do not want to know. The first thing I want to do before I start discussing this bill is to send my appreciation to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, prison officials have been abandoned a long time ago. He did not want to listen, as he said before, to what they have been doing. We don't want to give visibility to your work. They have been abandoned by the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and I believe that they have every right in the world to talk about their uniqueness and to think that precisely because of that uniqueness, there must be a specific statute for all of them. We agree, of course, and will vote in favour of this proposal for a law, because I believe that this singularity has been won at hand. Don't you remember that when the aggression protocol was drawn up within the General Administration of the State, prison officials were excluded? If prison officials are excluded when the protocol of the General Administration of the State is made for all officials, it is because they are unique. Now we're going to take away the singularity? Now we're gonna say they're not singular? Now we're gonna trust everything to a law that can come out in the future? No, no, I believe that this status is necessary. I think they claim what's necessary. I believe they claim that their uniqueness must be approved by this House. I have bad news for them, and it is probably not approved, because, again, the Socialist Party, its partners and the Mystery of the Interior are going to trap, to trap with the unions the amendment of the General Penitentiary Law, which is not the purpose of this law. Of course, the General Prison Law needs to be changed, but it has nothing to do with defending a specific statute and uniqueness for prison officials. Sectorization is important. It is not the first sector to have this Statute. Why do we think, then, that they can't have it? Why do we trust everything to a future amendment of the General Prison Law? Look, I believe that prison officials, who are subjected to aggression, as we have already said, are working with a very important lack of material and human resources, have a major training deficit, have no career, neither horizontal nor vertical, the aging of their staff is tremendous and prison health is a disaster. By the way, the autonomous communities do not want to address this disaster, because prison health should depend on the National Health System, because the citizens who are interned are exactly the same as any other Spanish citizen and are entitled to the same National Health System as the rest of the citizens. Not because they're inside a prison, they have to lose those rights. We are depriving them of that right, because the autonomous communities do not want to collect the competences of prison health, something that is, by the way, in the law. No autonomous community wants to take the step. This causes inmates to have poor prison health, but we don't care about this, we don't care about this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, this is not about me or asking for my own; this is about prison officials, at all, because one day these powers will be transferred and it will be good for them to have a statute to protect them, which, moreover, have been won at their own pace. So it has had to be an independent platform of many prison officials that has brought an articulated text of law, which has been introduced by the People's Party. We thank the People's Group for the gesture of presenting this bill. It has been the officials who have had to make their bill, because no parliamentary group has been able to do so. I believe that making the problems of prison officials visible...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u16	Mr. Gutierrez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u17	... It is the first step - I conclude, Madam President - to dignify the work that prison officials do for inmates and for society as a whole. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u19	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG agrees that there is a clear need to update, restructure and give normative unity to the current regulation of the bodies of penitentiary institutions, regulated in part, today, by pre-constitutional rules. We believe that a rule should be promoted that systematically collects the different bodies at the service of the prison administrations, and that regulates their functions, which are truly complex, explaining the role of each one within the prison treatment. That must be the focus of the text, that the role of public officials and employees within the centres should be to achieve the social reintegration of prisoners, because that is also the purpose of custodial sentences. This is a rule which must also be accompanied by a sufficient budget to ensure that the centres of human and material resources need to carry out their work in decent conditions. These are the fundamental keys for the BNG, and we do not see them reflected in the text proposed by the People's Party. We believe that part of another vision of the role that the bodies of penitentiary institutions have to play is an approach that cannot be corrected simply through the process of amendments. He seems to be more concerned with the function of simple vigilantes than with a fully uniformed perspective. It should also be recalled that a working group has already been set up at the Delegated Bureau of Prison Institutions, in which representatives of the Administration and, on the one hand, the main trade unions representing workers, the Galega Inter-union Confederation, UGT, CSIF, Commissions and ELA participate. This group works with a draft that, although it can be improved and still does not have the union support for not collecting all its demands, part of a completely different vision, with a more appropriate management of functions, and with the prospect of incorporating an economic memory with sufficient budget. We consider it necessary that the text that is finally being processed should pass through this delegated table. By the way, we have to call on the Government to reactivate that table, which is currently paralysed, by giving pretexts to situations like this; a delegated table, which is the place where the various trade unions can express their position on it. Because, moreover, we are also clear that the working conditions of prison officials need to be improved. Therefore, BNG cannot support the consideration of the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, while this morning we have been developing our committees with some normality and now we are attending this plenary session, there is a colleague of ours, Mr Josep Nuet, who has gone to collect a sentence; a sentence that will disable it. And it will disqualify him, curiously, by allowing his fellow Members of Parliament in Catalonia to exercise politics, and that will imply that he cannot continue for a while exercising institutional politics. From here to Don Josep all our solidarity. [[Applauds]] And we don't have to normalize that. I had recently spent with my spokesman, Quico Homs, who was also disqualified precisely for allowing a consultation of the Catalan people at that time. [[Applauds]] Having said that - I do not want you to fall into the normality of these complaints that we are going to reiterate - I would like to make a few comments on the People's Party initiative. On 28 December 1983, Royal Decree 34/1982 was adopted, which was passed on the matter of prison administration to the Generalitat of Catalonia. Article 2 of this Royal Decree provided that the personnel seconded to the prisons at that time in Catalonia were transferred to the Generalitat of Catalonia, and this was done on the basis of the agreements of the Joint Commission of 22 June 1982, and in the annex to this Royal Decree, where these agreements are reproduced, in subparagraph (b) of the agreements of the Joint Commission, it was established that the staff entered into the personnel corps of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You, when you make this proposal, do not provide any kind of safeguard in relation to this situation. In the intervention that has been made today also no mention has been made, with which - tell me that I am a misconception - when you establish and want to create a national body you want to integrate these officials who have been transferred to the Generalitat of Catalonia not last month or three years ago, but thirty-eight years ago, most of whom have already acceded to the body in accordance with a procedure established by the Generalitat of Catalonia. Therefore, who must regulate the working conditions of prison workers in Catalonia is the Generalitat of Catalonia, is the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, as you do not make a clear and explicit exception in your parliamentary initiative, you cannot tell us that we will already correct this by means of amendments, beyond the fact that the model that you are proposing to regulate this national body does not at all coincide with that which has developed over the past almost forty years in Catalonia. Therefore, as long as it is not clear and explicit that the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya are respected in this case, we will not support any parliamentary initiative. Let's vote no. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u23	Good afternoon. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament. It has been introduced by comrade Ferran Bel, and I thank him - solidarity between groups, and more when we are all likely to end up in prison, it is good - but I will tell you one thing: Joan Josep Nuet has not been disqualified as an independentist, this everyone knows - in fact, he has been criticized for not being, that is different -; he has been disqualified as a Democrat, and any Democrat who is here is at risk of ending up in prison. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, annotate yourself and leave the will made for your children. [[Rumors]] We are talking about disqualification from talking about things in a parliament. Where are you going to talk in the sinks? They are denying the primary role of a parliament, and that is not undermining democracy, it is simply proving that there is no democracy. Having said all this, let's talk about prisons, which is the logical step. I wanted to start - said the spokesman of the PP - saying that we have all met with the associations, indeed - I did yesterday afternoon - and I must say that I was impressed, and of the pleas that made me, that were two, one will have the pleasure of being able to carry it out, that is to destigmatize that association. They were telling me, we're not ultra-right. And what I saw before me were four working people with love for their profession, with great concern and with great fear and great helplessness in the face of the little voice that we have been able to give them. Therefore, I want to thank you and I want to offer you again to continue working together to improve your situation as workers because in the Republican Left of Catalonia, if we are next to someone, it is the workers, and this is not forgotten. The other plea they were making me I won't be able to fulfill. We are going to vote against this proposal for a law, which I believe has been used by certain parties and which may otherwise have sought more unanimity. They tell us: attend to this proposal and then they will modify it. And you know that's fake, that's not gonna happen. You know that my country, Catalonia, is the only one of the autonomous communities that have transferred competences to prisons in material and human means, and as management many of the things that are requested in this bill are already reflected in our daily work. Collective bargaining, they already have a sectoral table. Health. No, Mr Citizens' Spokesman, in Catalonia the health of prisoners is given by the normal and common public health network, and as always you talk about national bodies, it turns out that what we have arranged with the management of government and with our own competences, then, with coffee for all, we lose it, and we cannot admit it. That is the basic reason to say no, because this could again and not to lose the habit an element of decentralization of a system that operates in Catalonia. Why does it work? It works, among other things, because we believe that the prison model should be focused on reintegration through processes of accompaniment to people from a social perspective. Prison is not a mere punishment, prison is not based on a punitive will, but on a punitive will. The policy of criminal enforcement of judgements must be a second chance policy. In other words, prison is the foreground of a freedom that will be the second chance to live a full life of those who have certainly not had any chance. The prison officials, to whom I would like to send my recognition, especially to the Catalans but also to those of the rest of the Spanish, are the people who must make this accompaniment. From this perspective, therefore, a measure of the quality of our reintegration and accompanying policy is how we treat and legislate regarding prison officials. So we are going to vote no, but, as I have already moved you, we offer you to be able to continue working together without national bodies, without decentralization, but with all the guarantees, all the needs, all the guarantees and all the dignity that these officials need. Let me finish. Let's see, gentlemen of the government, state this at once, please, and do not hide in a supposed law of bodies. And do something else, please, not only in civil servants, not only in prison labor, but also in material means. The dignity of officials, but also of prisoners and prisoners has to do with the material measures available to them and around them. Investment in prisons doesn't give a vote, but it's fair. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law departs from the current model of prison policy under the Constitution. The Basic Staff Regulations regulate public servants in the service of the General Administration of the State and indicate which personnel have specific legislation of their own. The Spanish Constitution did not wish to make an express reservation for prison staff to be governed by their own statute. The only purpose of specific legislation in the area of prison professionals would be to ensure the impartiality and independence of the institution, and this proposed law would cause the opposite. The execution of criminal convictions in a democracy is linked to respect for human rights, both of the victims of crimes through the enforcement of sanctions, so that they become an instrument for the prevention of other crimes, as well as of the victims, who must comply with the sanction as part of a path of reintegration and resocialization. It is therefore imperative that the enforcement of prison sanctions be subject to permanent supervision and control by the permanent institutions, but this proposal for a law seeks to give greater autonomy to the prison administration, separating itself from the rest of the competent administrations in the field of justice. The result would be a loss of neutrality and an increase in the politicization of the institution, as well as - we are very concerned - the loss of labour rights for prison staff. With this proposal, the Prison Administration would have the competence to regulate aspects of the performance and management of its functions, to decide on the personal and material means, the economic resources necessary to carry out its functions, and all with less controls than now, that is, it would be configured as an autonomous power, departing from the model recorded in the Constitution. In addition, this bill transforms the model of prison treatment of the offender into a police model. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the proposal transforms the model of treatment, resocialization and prevention, because it even opens up the possibility of being an armed body again. In other words, the ius puniendi, the right to punish the State, since the Illustration, from Beccaria is justified in that the penalty must pursue the deterrence and possible repression of future criminals. That's incompatible with a model that's exclusive surveillance. Proposing a classification and designation of the bodies of penal institutions, as well as uniformity and emblems with a marked police court contravenes article 80 of the General Prison Law, but also European prison rules. The intention of this proposal is to replace the function of treatment by police functions and is concrete in repealing Royal Decree 2298/1979, which was the decree that brought the union rights of civil servants to association. Repealing this rule opens the way for returning to the model of an armed prison corps existing in the dictatorship, and that is a step backwards not only for the model of prisons, it is a step backwards for society as a whole, because that regulation recognized the right to freedom of association, but it was the basis for democratizing the institution. Prison staff cannot be an armed force, which is incompatible with the fulfilment of the constitutional mandate of reintegration. That is why we believe that the proposal does not meet democratic minimum standards, but it also has a poor legislative technique. Legitimate functional bodies for the use of weapons are regulated by specific statutes by organizational law by an express constitutional mandate and the Constitution does not include Prison Institutions among the bodies that may use weapons. And the proposal also cuts down on the current rights of prison staff. For the unions, for the majority of the unions represented right now, the project is deeply reactionary because it aims to end the prison system of democracy but also because it affects the labour and professional rights of prison officials, it leaves to the free decision of the government of turn the profile of the professionals, the catalog of jobs and functional areas, the system of coverage of places, the requirements to ascend, the criteria to evaluate the performance or to move to second activity; it changes, in general, the model of access to the prison bodies, allowing each government to arbitrarily approve new requirements to enter, and to modify the general system of provision of jobs, which so far is competitive, and replaces it with free designation, that is, the exception to the rule, arbitrariness, becomes a general rule in prisons. Of course, the most serious thing seems to us to be the elimination of the compulsory procedure of collective bargaining by abolishing the regulation of working conditions by regulation and reducing the negotiation of trade unions to be heard and informed. Prison workers would be left out of the scope of representativeness and negotiation, the works councils would disappear. It is, however, that prison institutions are currently negotiating with trade unions the reform of the current rules governing prison bodies, and it is of course unanimous the need to proceed to bring these rules into line with the current reality, modernizing and promoting the professional career and its specialization. It is necessary to rejuvenate the body and it is necessary to improve aspects such as, for example, health, in what trade union organizations are committed to. In fact, this text is being negotiated with the trade union organizations represented at the Delegated Bureau of Prison Institutions with the aim of reaching a common and, of course, consensus proposal on the rights to be regulated by the specific law. What we are asking you to do is to withdraw your proposal and let the unions agree with Prison Institutions, and, once the agreement has been reached, to bring to this House a rule with as much consensus as possible among the political forces starting, of course, from the agreement with the unions, with such modifications as may be necessary, and to prevent any rule in which there are customer mechanisms, of political control, so that arbitrariness is prevented and that it is prevented from being politicized is essential public function. Undoubtedly, we cannot allow the regression of labour rights, and what we must fundamentally prevent is the isolation of society from the professional collective. That is why we are going to vote against this consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u27	Thank you very much, President. As a matter of fact, Congressman Nuet has not been disqualified by a Democrat or much less by his political ideas, but by being a coup and a criminal. [[Applauds]] The background that brings us to this consideration goes back more than four decades. Governments of all colours with different majorities and parliamentary support have acted in the same way: by abandoning and unjustly silencing our prison officials. The Legislature from this House has passed and reformed criminal laws; the State Security Forces and Bodies have carried out their work of investigation, arrest and judicial disposition; the judges and the courts have prosecuted, tried and sentenced those who have become prisoners, and from there the black hole of the State has made them disappear, they have literally ceased to exist. But this is a big lie, an unfair lie, because there are prisons and there are prison officials who have to work in such centers. The reality of these forty years, which we have been able to observe multiple visits to these prisons, in multiple meetings with prison officials and which we have seen in different non-law proposals and in the proposed law that we have presented in the Senate as early as October of the year precisely with the statute of prison officials, is that of insufficient staff, aged staff, 23,000 officials, who in the last nine years have had a deficit of 3,400 places - for every three casualties of staff, only one has been replaced, the lowest ratio of staff per prisoner, arriving in terrible situations, such as that one official entered a module with one hundred and twenty prisoners -; without work materials, without personal vests, without proper uniforms, without personal helmets, without gloves, without personal protection teams in full pandemia, without training and without a career - they have been found without the necessary courses of training and personal defence, without specialisation at the time of intervention with very dangerous prisoners, without proper diplomas, without personal helmets, without personal helmets, without gloves, without uniforms, without uniforms, without personal equipment, without personal protective personnel, without the personal protective units, without the personal protective equipment, without even, without training, without training, without training, without training, without training of staff, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a staff, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a staff, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a staff, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a staff, with a personal training, with a personal training, with a Last week in the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions this very complaint was made, this request for a fair remuneration. And perhaps the most important thing in this account is legal insecurity, because they have not been recognized as agents of authority, they have not been recognized as the necessary and absolute presumption of veracity. When they file a record, when they write a report, they are constantly falsely denounced by the prisoners so that they can be pressured. Therefore, today is an important day for prison officials, but today should be the day when they were asked for forgiveness from this House, a recognition of the abandonment that has taken place for decades from our prison officials. Today is a day to do justice to our prison officials by adopting a statute that will allow them protection in their work, dignity in their work. And this is not a partisan issue, this is not a debate of political parties, of partisan interests; here we are talking about State issues, we are talking about prison officials who protect us all at the last step of the action of justice and the suppression of crime. [[Applauds]] That is why, dear friends, dear officials, dear prison officials, today from this rostrum we want to thank you for so many years of sacrifice, in which you have put your life and your security at risk; years working in unworthy conditions, without means and without just remuneration; a time when perhaps the hardest for you has been the oblivion and abandonment of this House and of the different governments of Spain, of all colors. We shall vote in favour of that statute. But it is true that not only do we need our votes. For now you will have our vote, our understanding and our support. Do not give up, because very soon a Government presided over by those who know how to defend the interests of our officials will succeed, if it is not possible today, in adopting that just statute. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.- Mrs Vallugera Balañà asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vallugera?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u29	Thank you, President. He cited article 71.3 to ask Congressman Ortega Smith to withdraw the word 'coach' from his statements. In case I don't, we'll consider it a real honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. For the Socialist Group, Mr José Vélez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u31	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President. This proposal that today brings us to debate by the People's Group following the step of the one presented by VOX in the Senate, the truth is that we do not know whether it is to rebuf, connivance, subordination or whether this time you have won your hand, gentlemen of VOX, the People's Party. Ms. Gamarra meets with an association or platform of professionals, of prison workers, endorses her demands and her bill, which is still the same as that presented by VOX in the Senate, and boasts in a tweet that bringing this non-law proposal to debate complies with the promised. Well, since Mrs Gamarra always talks about data, data and more data, we are going to talk about management data in the seven years of the People's Party's Government, seven years during which she managed to paralyse the current efforts and produce the most damaging interests for prison officials: first, in July 2013 they paralysed the Plan for Amortization and Establishment of Prisons; then, little by little, they degraded the working conditions and workers' rights, and then, as a colophon, with the freezing of the replacement rate three thousand troops were lost during those seven years, which has placed the staff at an average age of over fifty; and, of course, they did not do a single transfer competition either. Well, since the Spanish Government presided over by Pedro Sánchez, this plan has been reviewed and activated again. It has been approved by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2019 and since then two public job offers have already been made for around nine hundred posts each year and a similar one will be held during the current year, which will mean, as a whole, the incorporation of 3252 officials; and, of course, a competition for transfers has also been held each year. Therefore, it seems to us a clear example of parliamentary opportunism to bring this proposal to law, we understand that with the sole aim of torpedoing the negotiation process that is being carried out from the Ministry of the Interior and the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions. At least it is curious that everything they did not do when they ruled now becomes their first priority, an absolute priority, which does not stop expressing either their inability to manage or their unwillingness to deal with problems, or even both at the same time. Indeed, the discussions that are taking place between the Ministry of the Interior and the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions with the unions present at the table have the full support of this parliamentary group and will result and end in a proposal for a body law, because it is shared the need to update the regulations that seek the projection of the future of the different prison bodies, redefining and updating the functions they perform, as well as the projection and impulse of their professional career, internal promotion and specializations. It is essential to adapt the existing framework to present and future needs, since the rules governing them today are prior to the promulgation of the General Prison Organic Law and prior to our Constitution, which they so venerate. Work continues, as I say, on the drafting of this body law, meetings and discussions are held with the trade unions represented at the Delegated Bureau of Prison Institutions; the latter was held on 24 February. And, by the way, Mr Gutiérrez, I have had a tremendous and painful feeling that the unions are about to conchute with the Ministry of the Interior and, instead, a letter of credibility is given to a platform. The Socialist Group - and so it was on our electoral agenda - is committed, and we want to highlight the work of trade union organizations for the work they do to improve the institution and as legitimate and elected representatives of the workers and for the will of consensus with which they are addressing these talks. [[applause]] That is why - it is very clear - we cannot support the consideration of this proposal for a law, but we do want to place all the groups in this House at the same time that when the Government brings the draft body law together with the papers and the amendments, including those of the platform to which I refer, we will be able to build a good law among all and within the greatest possible consensus; the Socialist Group is concerned and determined to achieve it. And now it is when Marco Aurelio enters: 'What is good for the hive is good for the bee'. Let's get to work, gentlemen! [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. José. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING THE CIVIL CODE, THE HYPOTECARY LAW AND THE CIVIL JUSTICE LAW, ON THE LEGAL REGIME OF ANIMALS. [[File number 122/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u33	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act on the legal regime of animals. Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u34	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to the plenary of the Congress of Deputies the consideration of the amendment of the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act on the legal regime of animals. With what objectives? With the aim of shared custody of animals in the event of separation or divorce, with the aim of ensuring that animals are not seized or mortgaged as mere things, with the aim of ensuring that animals are not abandoned, with the aim of not causing suffering or pain to animals under our protection as sensitive beings, and with the aim of being respectful of animals. For this reason, we bring this proposal of law taking into account its welfare and protection. Ladies and gentlemen, if I tell you that animals are not things, I believe that the vast majority of Members of this House will agree, even some will consider this to be an absurd phrase. But no, it is not, since in our Civil Code they are still considered such. And from this goes this proposal of law, that once and for all animals be considered in our Civil Code as sentient beings, beings endowed with sensitivity, so we hope that it has the broad support of the majority of this House, as it happened in 2017. Allow me first to express my gratitude to certain groups that have worked hard for this bill. First, we want to thank the various entities that worked and worked for the protection of animal rights, which today cannot be here because of the pandemic but have sent us their proposals. We would also like to thank all those who endorsed these legislative amendments that we present today with the collection of thousands of signatures mobilized by the Observatory of Justice and Animal Defense. Finally, we would like to thank the Parliamentary Association for its work in seeking parliamentary consensus on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, scientific knowledge has shown that animals have complex physical and psychological sensations, perceive and transmit emotions and moods. That is why today we are presenting legislative changes that have long been demanded by the entities that work for the defense of animals and by the families that live with them, legislative changes that were widely agreed in the presentation of the previous law proposal. It is obvious that animal sensitivity, respect and animal protection have been advancing over the past few years, and from the legislative point of view we also need to move forward to respond to the new needs and sensitivities that society demands. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that 40% of Spanish households have a pet and that in our country we have sixteen million animals surveyed. This data gives us a clear view of the importance of animals in our lives and in our homes, which on many occasions become one more member of the family. In fact, this proposal for a law reflects the glove handed down by the parliamentary groups, which, already in the XII Legislature, unanimously adopted a proposal for a law that was worked on in a paper and was paralyzed by the call for elections. This proposal for a law mainly reflects the text that emerged from this work in the paper. Changes in the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act, the Civil Prosecution Act can no longer wait, can no longer wait for the animals we live with and can no longer wait for the families who want them. We must put an end to years of legislative delay in our country in relation to the rest of the countries in our environment. It is time for the animals to cease to be considered things to be recognized and treated in our Civil Code as they deserve, as sentient beings, as beings endowed with sensitivity, as reflected in Article 13 of the Treaty on European Union, some of our autonomous communities, such as, for example, the Catalan one, which, as early as 2006, when governing a socialist president, did this reform and expressly acknowledged that animals are things for us, and, as I told you, also many laws of neighbouring countries. This change in the Civil Code is marked by the legislation of these countries, having proceeded in many legal systems of our environment to adapt the civil legislation to the social sensitivity to the animals that exist today, recognizing their quality as living beings endowed with sensitivity. These reforms have already taken place in the Austrian Civil Code in 1986, in Germany in 1990 and in 2002 with the protection of animals with constitutional status, in the Swiss regulation, which also includes in its Constitution the protection of animals, or in the reform of Belgium in 2009, as well as in the two most recent ones, in the French reform of 2015 and in the Portuguese reform of 2017, which establishes the legal status of animals and amends both its Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure and the Penal Code. These are necessary legislative amendments in different areas because the treatment we still give to some animals in this country in the middle of the 21st century is neither acceptable nor admissible; amendments to the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act to answer questions such as: Do you think it acceptable that when a couple separates their pet be treated as a mere object, when it is obvious that they are part of that family? It's not acceptable to us. Is the number of abandonments in our country acceptable to you? It's not acceptable to us. Do you find the demands made by animal protection entities acceptable to us when we are told that in traffic accidents the family is saved but often the pet that is with it is not saved? It does not seem acceptable to us. Do you find cases of ill-treatment and death that too often happen in our country acceptable? The Socialist Group does not find it acceptable. The legislative changes we propose must allow us to respond to ethical problems such as these, problems such as abandonment, working responsible treatment, noting that animals are not things, but sentient beings, so they must be treated as such and foster their adoption; addressing multiple conflicts that occur when there are separations of couples, establishing guarding shifts that favor people and the animal itself, and agreeing that animals will not be impregnable, separating them from families and taking them to reception centres in the case of a house embargo. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order to change the cosification of pet animals as reflected in our legislation there is a long way to go, which goes far beyond the three changes we propose to you today, and, although we understand that we must be much more ambitious at the legislative level, the changes we are now presenting to you are necessary, positive and a fundamental first step. We believe that we must go further, working on a framework animal protection law that guarantees the protection and protection of animals, as the Socialist Party itself carried out in its electoral programme and as the Government has committed itself through the Directorate-General for Animal Rights. We believe that we must go further in amending the Criminal Code in order to avoid animal abuse, death and abandonment. Recent cases such as the ill-treatment until the death of the dog Temple, in Teguise, or the recent case of ill-treatment of the lab Vivotecnia are totally unacceptable and we have to be able to legislate so that they do not occur again. The Administration must be quick to resolve these brutal cases of ill-treatment by legislating for awareness, empathy and respect, but also to ensure that in cases where this is not enough the Criminal Code performs its function. With the change of law proposed to them, animals will have special protection against suffering and pain caused directly or indirectly, making them subjects of law. The Government has set out to improve people's day-to-day lives, but it has also set out to work for climate change and respect for the planet and, of course, for the rest of its people. Awareness and responsibility to educate our children in empathy, which has already been included in the new Education Act to be respectful of the rest of animals when they are adults. To conclude, humanity has established dominion over the rest of the beings who inhabit this planet. We have subjected the planet in such a way that it is at the limit of its natural resources and we have also subjected the rest of the animals, but now there is no turning back. We are moving towards increasingly feminist and ecological societies and must also become increasingly animalistic societies. As Victor Hugo said: 'First it was necessary to civilize man in his relationship with man, now it is necessary to civilize man in his relationship with nature and animals'. These legislative advances have to allow us to be better as a society. These legislative advances have to enable us to give an ethical response to the relationship we have with the rest of the planet's animals. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I ask you to vote in favour of the proposal for a law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guaita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr López Maraver. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u36	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Today we have before us a proposition of criminal social law that advances in a decadent society towards a barbaric civilization, that leaves the animal at the foot of the horses and the man places it at the gates of the death row. This of seeking to grant the animal the codes of civilized and citizen man is as senseless as bringing man into the natural laws of the swarm, the pyara or the herd. The animal obeys its stimuli and instincts, which have nothing to do with the sensitivity of man, because this is manifested by nature itself since life exists. Let us respect the animal, let us take care of it, let us improve its quality of life, but we will not equip it with man and his sensibilities, because we will end up with his natural being and burst the trophic structure of nature itself. [[Applauds]] The principle that the condition of animals is different from that of men is basic. Man's position on the animal throughout existence must lead us to an important distinction between wild animals, working and producing animals and pets. However, this should not lead us to the mistake of wanting to change their own animal condition. The nefarious, wrong and irrational new animalist ideology, which pursues nothing but commercial and economic interests, and to which little or nothing matters to animals or their respect, invents the nonsense that animal rights must be endowed. A person who does not have the capacity to acquire obligations cannot by his or her own being acquire rights comparable to persons. Animals must be protected, because to a greater or lesser extent they coexist with the human being, but always according to their species and characteristics, but in no case by the recognition of impossible rights. This proposal for a law, which seems to be addressed to pets, does not define what these are. Start by properly legislating and specify where it corresponds which animals are exactly company. The unbridled animal welfare laws that their parties have passed in many autonomous parliaments, such as Navarre, Valencia, Castile and León or Madrid, leave us with the pearls of considering a black mamba, a staircase snake, a chameleon, a rat or a zurita and brave dove as pets. [[Applauds]] Having said that, this reform introduces the folly of making a judge clear what to do with the custody of the pet as a member of a family and equates it with the children in the case of divorce. The animal has a owner, who acquires it, puts his cartilage and microchip in his name and is responsible for the care, possession and actions of the animal, since the animal in its animal condition does not have the capacity to answer for itself. The animal is and must always be its owner. The family takes care of him, cares for him and spoils him, but the responsibilities are who made the decision to be his owner. The good treatment of animals, their care and good management must be based on duties that we as human beings acquire towards them when we become owners. In fact, the proposal refers to the same word: duties. However, everything that is proposed with this legal claim lays the foundation for a new step that goes beyond and that is really dangerous: to humanize the animal and to dehumanize man. They say that in the event that the injury to a pet causes death or serious physical or mental harm to the pet, the owner and the persons living with the pet who understand the repair of the moral damage caused will be entitled to compensation. Here's the key. You fall into your own error and into pure Phariseism. They intend to grant rights to animals and, on the contrary, compensation lies with their owners and not with themselves, because they are aware that an animal, because of its existential condition, cannot be compensated for moral damage, nor can it be granted rights. On the other hand, there is an absolute and ineffective revolt in the proposed amendment. What about working animals, police and fire dogs, cargo and shooting horses, carey and real dogs? What about the stuffed animals, sheep, lambs, cows, pigs, farm rabbits? Are they or are they not? Have you thought about them? Really, don't see in my bad will, just the will to understand the background of your modification. The text reads as follows: The offspring are subject to the fruit regime since they are in their mother's womb, even if they are not born. Well, that's the question. Do human offspring have this same consideration since they've been in their mother's womb? [[Applauds]] They have done all the opposite with the Abortion Law, the dead man and the animal life. This is called hypocrisy, the same hypocrisy that allows a Spanish child to amputate the genitals and become breast glands without the consent of their parents and at the expense of all Spaniards and, on the contrary, does not allow the owner of a dog to cut off their ears or tail so that the animal does not suffer injuries in his work proper to his instinct. [[applause]] The amendment to article 611 is a direct attack on the title of property, more like the article of a communist dictatorship law than the Spanish civil order. Who is no one to be able to retain, value or take care of an animal for the sake of its well-being while it is lost? Only the State Security Forces and their relevant departments should be responsible for meeting the needs of the pet until it is returned to its owner. In the case of abandonment, only the Administration shall take care of that animal. We all know the bad will of animal fundamentalists who, in the midst of kinegetic activities, have kept dogs - with the owner - in perfect conditions to threaten their owners not to return the animal from their property and then to trade with them. They advance with this regulatory alienation in their most absurd ideological sectarianism, that of the great multinationals of the globalist elites who, no matter how little or nothing the animals of the countryside, the mountains, the rivers, the oceans and the poles, have fixed themselves on the animals that have practically lost their animal instinct to be subjected to the living conditions of men. Once they have managed to end the birth of men, they have invented the new macro-business, mascotism and the most rotten animalism: the one that wants us to buy toys for dogs and not for children, the one that forces us to buy medicines for puppies and not for the elderly, the one that invents vegan feed for their carnivorous animals, and the one that demands European bureaucrats rights for animals and condemns their owners to obligations. Moreover, you, those of the progressive consensus, serve the instruments in a tray. They create the General Directorate of Animal Welfare, which has a dual use. On the one hand, it advances in the agenda of the macro-collusion of rights and, on the other, it serves as a platform for radical ecologists, subsidizers, who, among other things, condemn to death thousands of animals of production, such as cows, calves, sheep, lambs, mares or fowls of hundreds of livestock in the rural world, and their owners, who do not care about commission presidents in order to protect the wolf in an absurd and wrong way, placing it at the top of the trophic chain and obviating man. [[Applauds]] He's been sentenced to extinction. The wolf is just an example of the path taken. The above, wildness; the present, the laws of animal welfare; the next, the turtledove; then, what happens to them to blow up the rural world and its people. In this sectarian modification are all included. This proposal is not born of you, it comes from the germ of another proposal that the People's Party proposed four years ago; yes, the same Popular Party of Mrs Ayuso who, in the fervor of political euphoria, brings to Madrid a festival of bulls on 2 May, after condemning to ruin in a last year the bull sector. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and of all the parties, the election festivals are very good, but the bull in Madrid in San Isidro, in September, in spring, at the patron feasts of all the peoples and in the illusion of subscribers and fans, because if not you, who are so animalists, will condemn your extinction to the most emblematic of our animals, the bull of lidia, as you advance in your great lie and in your business of giving rights to those who, no matter how much they spoil, have no rights, simply because they have no obligations. [[applause]] And they have neither the one nor the other because they lack will, lack the capacity to decide, lack responsibility; because they are not aware of their actions, lack the power to know and recognize that they have rights; lack the capacity to demand the fulfilment of their rights and, finally, because they are not aware of themselves. Meanwhile, many of us will be on the mountain stalking the animal under the moon to control and protect it; we will be healing the potion that was stabbed by a macaroni in the middle of the mountain battle. We will be running hare with the hare and, ultimately, we will be giving life to those you have executed, to the rural world and to animals. This is not a proposal of law made for animals; it is a proposal of law made by genuine animals. Good afternoon. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u37	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I refer to the last sentence: if you think you insult me because you call me an animal, you have a conceptual problem because, both you and I and everyone here, we are animals. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I also understand that you do not defend this law. I would have been very surprised if you would do the opposite, because this law defends the weakest who, in this particular case, is the animal, and you always, always defend the law of the strongest, because for you to protect those who need it most is a symbol of weakness. That is why they never vote in favour of proposals in favour of the weakest; they vote against the Children's Act, the Equal Treatment Act, the Euthanasia Act, and so on and so forth. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I am going to ask you very few things, but I am going to ask some of you: empathy and non-insensitivity, compassion and non-indifference, respect and no disregard for animals and families who want them too. Stop enjoying the pain; stop enjoying animal abuse, come to the 21st century, which will not happen, men! [[Applauds]] You who speak so much of a nation - you always speak of a nation - remember Gandhi's famous phrase: the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way your animals are treated. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, think it's normal to take a dog, tie his legs and neck, put a flange on his snout and insulating tape, and see how he suffocates to death? Does that seem normal to you? For this reason we have to legislate, so that these things do not happen; and this is a first step. [[Applauds]] You are so used to imposing your domination by force that you do not realize that the world is moving forward; it is advancing in feminism, even if you deny it; it is advancing in the fight against climate change, even if you flaunt it; it is advancing in protection and animal welfare, even if it hurts you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I would lie if I told you I was surprised at your position. If you want me to tell you the truth, you're highly predictable. I suppose some of your lordships live with a pet, and I suppose, in privacy, only in privacy, and when no one sees them, they understand that they are living beings; I suppose they understand that. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, I doubt very much that the comfort of your home will receive you with the same affection and illusion that your dog should do. [[Applauds]] I just want to clarify a few points. This bill comes to this plenary session of the Congress as a result of the intensive work of most of the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this House, of the entities working for animal protection and welfare and of the families who live with them. It comes to this plenary as a result of a thing called parliamentary consensus, a word that does not sound to you: consensus. Consensus is the ability of the parliamentary groups to approach positions to reach agreements for a better good. And I'd like to know, explain to me what scientific basis you focus on voting against this bill, beyond wanting to lie. I told you at the beginning of my speech that your positioning has not surprised me, because you base your way of doing politics on fake news and demagogic mantras. They are bold negatists: negatists of gender-based violence, with 1085 women murdered since 2003, the last one in León; climate change negatists, which has direct environmental impacts, but also economic and social changes today; vaccine negatists, since today they already have in their negatists of vaccines, they only lack Trump's leeway and will already be at the peak of the bubbles, and negatists of pain and animal suffering, not recognizing what the scientific entities, scientists - not a socialist deputy says, scientists - and various countries of our environment - like the communists - and I don't know what else they wanted to say, Germany and Austria, I don't know - already recognize. Empathy, compassion, commitment, affinity, respect, are some words that should be introduced in your vocabulary in order to be used. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in conclusion, they are always late in social progress. It was hard for their political great-grandfathers to accept that people of another color, who were not white, were not merchandise; it was hard for their political grandparents to accept that workers had rights; it was hard for their political parents to accept that women are not mere florists, and you still do not accept this, but you also do not accept, but you will have to do so, that animals are not objects, but living beings who feel and suffer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u39	Mrs. Guaita, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u40	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the twenty-first century; welcome to the century of rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Guaita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López Maraver has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u42	Thank you, President. We just heard his ideological sectarianism full of fallacies again, so it forces me to tell the truth again. Thank God we'll never have a consensus with you. [[Applauds]] This change has a final purpose: to cooperate and be complicit in the macro-business of the major multinationals and globalist elites, the mascotism and animalism that dehumanizes man and humanizes the animal. Don't come to me with the fallacy of love for animals. You care little about animals, the domestic and the savage; all you care about is keeping the business of the powerful who control them, and for that you have invented the instrument of giving rights to animals. The way to protect animals is not through mascotism and animalism, nor through rights. These paths only lead to disaster and the loss of respect for man, for giving a pre-eminence to animals that is wrong, pernicious and has worrying and unclear interests. The animal must be respected, cared for, improved its quality of life, but not equated with man and his sensibilities, because we will end up with a natural being and burst the path of nature itself, the position in the trophic chain. The men, in their place, and the animals, in theirs. We respect the principle that the condition of animals is different from that of men. This proposal is taking advantage of people with good intentions and will condemn them to serious obligations, the obligations of a being who, as I have said before, has no capacity to acquire them. I repeat, animals are not aware of themselves, and this does not allow them to be aware of their actions, to have the capacity to decide and to know and recognize that they have rights, because they lack responsibility and will to be responsible and to demand the fulfilment of their rights. The consequences of the harmful, wrong and irrational new animalistic sectarian ideology are what seems to make you enjoy, the condemnation of the extinction of the rural world and its inhabitants. You are boasting of love for nature and animals, and you have killed the countryside with your agreements with third countries. They have killed the livestock of the northern third peninsular shielding the wolf, and in passing they condemn him to his disappearance. They have ended the rural populations, ending the traditional livelihoods of the villages. They have closed schools and relief houses, moved rural factories and forced their owners to leave and transform their industries over the past 40 years. They have serious convictions in their possession, and now come with the invention of giving sensitivities and rights to dogs and cats, who have practically lost their animal instincts to be subjected to the living conditions of men. This reform of the Civil Code has many macabre long-term objectives and little to resolve animal matters. The end does not justify the means and less when the means are the animals. Let me tell you again, this is not a proposal of law that is made for animals, it is a proposal of law made by genuine animals. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, put on the floor.-Pause.-A cleaning-up worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u43	The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist and United We may have presented in the Congressional Registry a proposal for a law regarding the legal regime of animals that has an immediate precedent in the initiative that on identical subject already presented the People's Group in the XII Legislature, which obtained in the session of 12 December 2017 a very broad parliamentary support, and on which a good work in paper was carried out throughout a year, within the Committee of Justice, including report, which unfortunately fell due to the dissolution of the Chambers. In any case, this initiative that now comes in this second attempt, at the impulse of the two groups that are part of the coalition of government, addresses a matter of great importance and calm in the society of the twenty-first century, on which I do believe it is urgent to legislate in order to accommodate the great social changes in relation to the treatment of animals, and specifically their integration into our immediate environment, especially their accommodation in family and personal life, because our Constitution, so advanced in many respects, did not include animal welfare as well as well protected, a question that the fundamental laws of other countries do contemplate, as is the case in Germany, to cite one example. We also arrived very late at the ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Company Animals, established by the Council of Europe, which was adopted in 1987, but which entered into force in Spain no less than three decades later, in particular on 1 February 2018. This convention recognizes that human beings have a moral obligation to respect all living creatures, bearing in mind the special relationships between man and pets, which are important for their contribution to the quality of life and their consequent value to society. However, despite the fact that the adaptations to the Community animalist legislation are reeling, in Spain there is a historical and traditional link with animals which is reflected in livestock, kinegetics, sports, culture, etc., but which has been tightened in an extraordinary way in the domestic sphere, and it is very clear that the animalist sensitivity of our society has increased in a remarkable way in recent decades. It is precisely for this reason that, over time, different reforms have been incorporated into our regulatory framework, with which legal concepts and definitions have been laid down or expanded, but which have proved to be timid and clearly insufficient. Hence the need for legislative updates that could be described as cross-cutting because they relate to the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act. In the same vein, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the paper already worked, which concluded at the end of February 2019 an excellent work that, regrettably, fell a few days later by the dissolution of the Courts and the end of the legislature, with the consequent call for general elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a threefold reformist initiative, expected and desired by a large part of Spanish society, which would be said to be very necessary. This afternoon the preventive measures by the coronavirus pandemic prevent the presence of guests in the rostrum, but under normal conditions today the deputies would be accompanied face-to-face by associations, entities and individuals who have been demanding and insisting on legal reforms that grant animals the quality of sentient beings, endowed with sensitivity, and requesting that our laws accompany the growing social sensitivity about their protection, that they homologate Spain with other Community countries that already have a very advanced legal order and that, finally, they respond to that bond of affection that develops between a pet and those who treat it, in fact, as one more of the family, whose relationship reaches a very high emotional value and not rarely therapeutic, but that also has its rights and precise respect, protection and proper attention to their needs, which are not few. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the treaty which organizes the functioning of the European Union and, in particular, in its paradigmatic call for Article 13, so that the Member States take fully into account the demands of the human-animal relationship in relation to animal welfare as sensitive beings, our country has already made some amendments to the Criminal Code to try to give greater protection to domestic animals and to punish their abuse or abandonment, but they are insufficient. Also in the autonomous sphere - and Mrs Guaita Esteruelas pointed out - legislative progress has been made in the implementation of her competition titles, such as those relating to health, livestock, spectacles, environment, fauna or public safety. There are also many municipal ordinances that have opened the door to aspects that good and meticulous state legislation on pet animals must specify, in order to avoid the current dispersal of legislation and unequal legal treatment, depending on the place of residence, which also leads to various legal misadjustments and interpretations, which make it essential for the state to harmonize in order to provide the objective of animal welfare, prevent its abuse and ensure its protection. Finally, with my vote in favour of this consideration, I would like to ask for agility in parliamentary procedures so that Spain can have this law on the legal regime for animals, and there is no risk that the work carried out by the legislator, as it happened two years ago, will fall. At the same time, and on a permanent basis, it is essential that public awareness and education policies be undertaken in Spain that prevent civic behaviour and responsible animal ownership, which I believe is perfectly compatible with the defence of the rural environment, of livestock activity in front of the wolf and of the festival of bulls, citing three examples of great singularity and importance in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u46	Good afternoon, and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it was not for me to defend this position of Euskal Herria Bildu, it was for my colleague Iñaki, but unfortunately he is convalescent of this evil that surrounds us all, so I send him a strong embrace. Iñaki, besarkada bat. I defend the position of Euskal Herria Bildu from the point of view of someone - one of many among you - who has a special sensitivity to the animal world because I am possessor or convivial with what comes to be called pet animals. Congressman Joan Capdevila has on numerous occasions given me advice from his veterinary knowledge; likewise, I remember when the cat of Mrs Pilar Calvo, Siara, and the network of citizen solidarity that woke up throughout Barcelona to find her was lost. He finally showed up. And I also see Mr Uriarte, with whom I have an outstanding visit to the Basondo shelter in Vizcaya, where they do important animal protection work. I congratulate you from here. As the previous speaker pointed out, this proposal is not new, it was already in this Congress and, in addition, it adds several of the proposals and contributions that were made in the working group set up in connection with this proposal, so we will support it. It is a proposal aimed at putting the legality in force in the European Union in terms of the twenty-first century. Everyone, anyone who lives with a pet knows that it is not an object, knows that it is not a thing and, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party mentioned regarding the rules in force in most Member States, Spain is late to bring its rules into line with the framework of the European Union. Similarly, if we take into account that legislation is not a single law but has a coherent legal system, all the case studies and all the situations that take place, beyond recognizing the protection of animals per se, any proposal that favours the recognition of everyday civil situations I believe is of common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Europe's societies have evolved a lot in recent decades in terms of animal treatment, which I have seen and which I believe is a positive thing not only for animals, but for the citizens themselves. I listened attentively to the spokesman of the far right when he tried to ridicule the proposal, taking it ad absurdum and talking about the humanization of animals, when I believe that this rule is beneficial - I say - not only for animals, but also for people, because it makes us all better people. What about humanization of animals? There may be some case, but not to the end of Nero's horse, Incitatus, whom they said they wanted to appoint consul. But that is an anecdote when we see that today what is happening in our society, unfortunately, is animal abuse, too much animal abuse, which is against what we must fight. If we look at the newspapers of the last few days, we have seen the treatment that has been given in a laboratory, Vivotecnia - although surely there are more - to some animals. Likewise we have seen what happens in some extensive farms, with maltreatment of animals dedicated to food, or what happened recently in a port of southern Spain, if I remember correctly, in Cartagena, where hundreds of cows were seen in deplorable conditions, which in their transit to other States had stopped in a port of Spain, images that filled us with indignation. What's going on? That these images are not new, it is not that they occur now and before, what happens is that at the moment they provoke indignation, they cause people who may not have had that sensitivity to be outraged at those images and ask for measures, measures that in many cases we and we have to take from this House. In the past in Spain there were people and municipalities who were having fun or celebrating their festivities by throwing a goat from a bell tower; something I think most people in this Chamber now seem like a savage and they feel bad. Similarly, until five years ago, in another municipality, a bull is thrown, and I believe that the vast majority of the people we are here find that wrong, that seems to us a savage. I am sure that the sooner the new generations delay they will be outraged, ashamed and will not understand it when they see how today, in the year 2021, there are still those who seem fun a party or a feast where an animal is tortured and killed in a square in the middle of applause. This will come sooner than later because societies evolve and it is not normal, it is not understood that this can happen today. Madam President, it ended - the Socialist spokesman also did - by recalling Mahatma Gandhi's phrase that all societies and civilizations can be judged by how they treat animals. I think this is a small step towards better societies. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u48	Thank you, President. Many scientific studies have expanded day by day knowledge of many animal species, mammals, birds, fish, revealing that they experience pain, anxiety and physical suffering, and sometimes also psychic, when kept captive, deprived of food, by social isolation when separated from those of their species, by physical limitations or when painful situations arise from which they cannot be delivered. These scientific studies show that animals, especially superior animals, among which mammals, are aware of what happens to them, of pain, fear, suffering, anguish and frustration when they suffer. These are conscious, perceptive and emotional experiences for them so that we, through public policies for animal welfare, care, avoid, prevent and relieve them. Today, with the consideration of this initiative, we will take a remarkable step in the right moral direction, for from our ability to understand the suffering of other living beings derives the moral obligation to avoid it and above all to protect it, not even to the undermining of cultural exceptions. However, this is a long way to go that, despite the importance of the step we are taking now, has not begun or ended with this reform. Thus, in the past, to Law 32/2007, for the care of animals in their exploitation, transport, experimentation and sacrifice - which, over time, should be reviewed - followed, inter alia, the reform of the Penal Code of 2015, in its articles 337 and 337 bis, which increase the penalties for the unjustified ill-treatment of domestic animals or under human control and typified their abandonment, but which did not include, among many other issues, those same aggressive conduct towards wild animals not belonging to protected species; even a reconsideration of the current penalties would be desirable. Today, ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, we are beginning to take an important step in this animalistic sensibility, in a conception of animals - as has already been said - in line with what establishes science as sentient beings, consistent with the existing social sensibility on the protection of animals and in accordance with the legal order not only of the Union, but of the most advanced countries in our environment and with that of some autonomous communities, particularly the Catalan one, which is a pioneer in this new sensibility. Today we are beginning to take an important step towards incorporating into the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act a new notion of animals, a new legal regime for animals that considers them, as has already been said, as sentient beings; with complex physical and psychological sensations; with the ability, especially pet animals, to develop recognizable activities towards the human environment in which they live and grow, and with which we enter into mutual affective bonds, uniquely those most in need of company: disabled, people living alone, sick, children, girls, etc., and that because of their mutual affections they are given special treatment in the reform with respect to the rest of animals, including domestic animals, thus establishing the regulation of their fate and custody in cases of separation of couples, not knowing their embargo or the mortgage extension pact and providing that the damage caused to them will also be considered for moral damages for those who live with them. For its part, with regard to all animals, an article - the new 333 - was introduced in the Civil Code as a key to the vault, which reflected the strong idea of the reform with regard to the new conception of animals and their compatibility with the legal regime of property, provided that it was co-honest with the nature of the animals and with the provisions relating to their protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into those other specific aspects of the reform which we are considering today and which have already been mentioned by the honourable Members who have spoken before me and which will certainly affect those that happen to me. I simply - and I am finishing, Madam President - would like to express the wish that this initiative from which we are now beginning its processing will come to a good conclusion. Much of the same is reproduction of another that was presented by the People's Parliamentary Group and that defended in this rostrum our friend Avelino Barrionuevo in the XII Legislature and that we could not culminate, as has already been said, despite the progress of its processing, by the early completion of the Legislature, which will certainly now allow us an agile processing. Finally, I would like to convey our appreciation to all animal movements and to the people who collaborate with them, who have been a key part of social awareness towards a more compassionate treatment of animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u50	Thank you, President. The first intervention I had in this rostrum was in 2017 to present precisely this proposal that brings us here today to amend the Civil Code and related laws so that pets would no longer be considered property; in short, things. It was a non-legislative proposal adopted unanimously. Then came the motion for a law to which they have referred and which we also unanimously adopted in this House. I could name a lot of associations. I, by summarizing them all in one, want to highlight the good work of the Observatory of Justice and Animal Defence in this area, although it was many other associations and foundations that did a great job in this area. We shall, of course, vote in favour. It is a necessary reform, which is why it was brought by Citizens in 2017. It's not normal for someone who's being taken from everything to take away their dog, too. Well, there are those who seem normal, but now I'm going with them. I know the case of a good friend who went with her father to a zoo to adopt a dog, they saw a doggy, they approached to get interested in her and told them that she was under arrest and that it was a courthouse. By the way, the bitch died in the zoo. They take you home, they take your furniture, your belongings and you still have to see how they take you to who for many is one of our best friends or part of our family. By the way, as I've been told by some judicial officer, they scream desperately when they take them away from their owners. But this is not the only anomaly we have in Spanish legislation, in our nineteenth Civil Code; well, nineteenth in these matters and nineteenth in the same way as others. For example, in cases of traffic accidents with injured persons, the law does not differentiate the animal, regardless of how it is located, from the baggage. There is no obligation to collect and care for him. There is also the case of animals abandoned inside homes during a holiday, as a case I met in Galicia, where they heard barking for days a dog that died of hunger and thirst and could not enter because with the law in hand the inviolability of the home remained in front of what was just like the television. In the case of divorces, animals are part of the profit society if a judge - who has already come to do so - does not remedy it. The same is true of inheritance. It is not morally acceptable that we consider as things of animals, of a being who would give life for us. Anyone who has a dog, for example, cannot be considered as the toaster. The proposal also comes with the legal recognition that animals are sensitive beings, a recognition that must lead to more things in the forthcoming reforms that I ask the government - which for this purpose created a general direction of the matter - to bring forward. They have expressed their intention here and I am advancing them as they will have the support and amendments of Citizens for all of them, for all of them. On the way in, you have to go to the Penal Code. If we consider animals to suffer, we have an obligation to alleviate that suffering. This obligation arises from a capacity that is unique in the human being. This obligation does not divert the natural course from anything, this does not supplant nature. We are empathetic, we are the only empathic species and from that empathy derives our moral obligation to avoid the suffering of other living beings. Today we have heard here, in the turn against by VOX, the unsurprising arguments of the naturalistic fallacy, which defends that, as nature is so, little less than animals are for the use and enjoyment of man. Listen, there are also in nature the coronaviruses, we can let them run freely to see how they go, although, of course, you also consider it a weapon, but I assure you it is a matter of nature. And he has called us animals to all of us who support this law. I'm just saying that lack of empathy has a name too. Those who do not believe in the welfare of animals who think today, at least, of those we suffer when we see torture or ill-treatment of animals, that we are many, that we are the majority of this House - we have already demonstrated it in the past - and more and more Spanish. After this recognition of animals as sensitive beings in our Civil Code, the following measures would have to come, I will say two: an increase in penalties in the case of ill-treatment. I tell you what happened a few years ago in Torremolinos, in my province, in Malaga. She was a protector who collected abandoned animals, charged the city council for an amount for each animal she took care of. To make a hole, because it was filled, they sacrificed massively on authentic days of extermination. They perceived it because it was time to hear cats mucking and dogs screaming; to save, they injected little anesthetic and were dying for a whole day until death occurred. Many times, as they put them in freezers, they put them alive. So the Seprona found them when it came to the day that the Seprona entered this protector, see that there are puppies, there are cats, there are dogs; so, up to 2183 animals were exterminated. [[shows a photograph with several bodies of dogs and cats]] Why am I telling you this? They sentenced the head of the protector to three years and nine months: for the 2183 animals exterminated it was a year of conviction, the two additional years and nine months were for documentary falsehood, because they falsified the signature of a veterinarian. Don't you think the law is failing? The law clearly fails here. Anyone who tortures or ill-treats an animal must go to jail. On the other hand, we have to increase the penalties for abandonment. These scenes, which we have seen many, of someone who gets out of a car, throws a ball behind which the dog runs out and is able to get into the car, accelerate and, even seeing through the rearview mirror a being who would give life for him running and chasing the car, take the road and disappear... What are these people made of? We may have an idea around here, but what are they made of, what's going on in these people's heads? Any criminology or serial killer study fan shows that many began their blood races by bleeding with animals. Society must protect animals because they suffer, because we are many who suffer when we see certain attitudes and because by chasing those who commit atrocities with other living beings we will make a better Spain. Thank you very much for getting the proposal back. We shall vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Societies evolve, their values change, they are not immutable, but it is necessary for laws to adapt to these changes and, if so, to push them forward. In the field of animal welfare, other legislation such as the French and Portuguese legislation have already done so recently. It is good that the groups of the Government take an example, collect to some extent the social demands of different groups and present us with this law of reform. In any case, we ask ourselves once again why they do not submit a bill from the Government, as we believe would be logical. It is a positive step and we will support its consideration, but we must make it clear that, in our view, these changes will not lead to a substantial change in some aspects of animal protection and welfare. The reform proposes to define animals as sensitive beings and seems fair to us, it seems good to us, but it does not create, as did the Portuguese reform, a true legal status of animals. It continues to refer to animal welfare standards, but these are not reformulated. For example, mink farms intended solely for the production of leather as luxury goods for exclusive markets may continue to exist, which, by the way, remain open despite the risk of transmission in the midst of the pandemic; or there may continue to be macro-farms in which animals are crowded without space even to move. Nor will it provide a solution to the differentiated regulation of so-called animal sanctuaries, which, in the absence of legislation, should be governed by livestock farms themselves, nor will it facilitate and improve the handling of complaints of animal abuse and the imposition of sanctions. In any case, as I said, it seems to us an important step forward despite these deficits, so we will support its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u53	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u54	Thank you, President. The European Union certainly has one of the highest standards of animal protection in the world, but not now, but for more than 40 years. It is also reflected in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in the consideration for the European Union and the Member States of animals as sentient beings, so what the negatists call consensus progress is nothing more or less than being in the 21st century. It's okay for some to stay in the 19th or 20th with the innocent saints. Spain's late. Of course, for us this is an important proposal that we will support. Spain is late in any case once again. The delay that we accumulate translates into images that we see too often of animal abuse; they are not considered to be sentient beings who suffer and suffer. We hope that these changes will mean a substantial change that will help us to put an end to images like the one we saw last week in Vivotecnia, a situation that did not signal and had not even been detected preventively. If we want to prevent animals from being treated as things, it is essential to allocate resources to their effective protection and that, for us too - it has been said - goes through an animal protection law, which will surely be the next step in this House and will be very important. There are alternatives to animal experimentation and very important issues that defend countries such as Finland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this proposal. We believe that we are taking an important step towards making a better country and a much better society, able to defend the welfare of animals and to regard them as sentient beings who suffer and suffer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u55	Mrs. Sabanes, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Jon, for reminding you of my cat Siara and for helping me look for her from social media. He hasn't gone on a tour again without permission. Thank you very much. What is restarted today is an express legal recognition of the ability to feel, to feel of animals. This reform will count on the support of Junts per Catalunya because it aligns with the policies of protection of animals promoted from Catalonia, because we understand that humanizing the animal is humanizing man. In 2006, the Catalan Civil Code was the third in the world to distinguish animals from things, after Austria and Germany, accompanying a deeply rooted animalistic feeling in my country. Previously, the 2003 reform of the Law on the Protection of Animals of Catalonia already recognized animals as being physically and psychologically sensitive. It prohibited the slaughter of pet animals in reception centres and stated, as well as the proposed law which is being debated today, that pet animals could not be embargoed in court proceedings. In 2010, through a popular legislative initiative that collected more than 180,000 signatures, Catalonia banned bullfights, a show that from here hastened to label as a cultural heritage; that does, only marks Spain, because Unesco still does not admit it, because they must think: where is humanity to cause an animal to suffer and torture to death? It is a spectacle that has as victims not only bulls, but also boys, girls and adolescents, who are being violated their right to a child free of violence. So take this bull by the horns and, without encroaching on our powers in the amendments they put in the Senate, protect minors as the United Nations has been urging for years. After these references and thinking about family animals, we therefore welcome again the proposal for a law amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act on the legal regime of animals. Decoding responds to a society that mobilizes to rescue the animals used for the Vivotecnia experiment, for example, but also specifically to those who say it is enough not to take into account their interests and well-being in couple breakups. This is not from who the car is left, but from how we share to ensure its care and care to one more member of the broken family. No embargoes or auctions. Here we are not talking about one more thing or a piece of furniture as the Civil Code currently describes animals, but about subjects of law whose fidelity thrills us. Today there has been a lot of talk about empathy and I always say that empathy moves the world, and I add that today it does it by transforming the laws. I really enjoyed seeing Sandra Guaita use this energy, this vehemence and this empathy talking about animals. I would love for them to be used in the future to speak about the right to freedom of our political prisoners and exiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u60	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. My first words in this plenary would like to dedicate them to our colleague Joan Josep Nuet, a Member who has received notification of his sentence to eight months' disqualification for allowing a parliamentary debate. What a Spanish democracy! That democracy which some fully presume and which condemns a person to disqualification for allowing a debate! [[Pronounce words in Catalan.-Applause]] This bill is the third initiative presented to Congress with the aim of making animals cease to have the legal status of things in the civil law of some territories of the Spanish State. The human species has interacted with the rest of the animals forever, but it has not been until relatively recently when scientific consensus has emerged on the ability to feel all vertebrate animals, as well as some invertebrates. The legal system must accompany and not turn its back on scientific progress. This means that animals can no longer receive the legal consideration of simple things or be used exclusively as instruments without their own well-being for our purposes. It also means that humans, motivated by compassion and fulfilling our universal duties of care, must avoid their suffering and seek their well-being. That animals possess their own well-being is enough for us to have the obligation to respect them, but there are additional reasons. The European Convention on the Protection of Company Animals, which ratified this Congress at the end of 2017, recognizes that human beings have a moral obligation to respect all living creatures and to bear in mind the special relationships between human beings and pets. But he adds that the importance of their contribution to the quality of life and their value to society must be recognized. Undoubtedly, when you attack animals, you also attack the integrity of your own human being, so any effort that favors the improvement of human relations with the rest of the animals will benefit the community. A society in which everyone hates the idea of harming the smallest and most vulnerable, whether human or animal, is the ideal to aspire to. However, although progress has been made in this area in recent decades, which has largely been achieved by the work of a civil society articulated in the defence of animals, the institutionalisation of animal abuse prevents the reduction of the high level of violence that still exists against them. It is therefore necessary to adopt a set of legislative measures which provide the legal system with the necessary coherence and integration in order to give an adequate response to the current social requirements in relation to the protection of animals. It seems to us that this proposal is necessary and is on the right track, so we announce that we will support its consideration and put forward amendments during its processing. Likewise, it is necessary to overcome any terminology that affects the cosification of animals as objects of use and enjoyment by humans, being more appropriate to always refer to coexistence rather than possession. We like the declassification of animals as things, as already implemented in the Catalan Civil Code since 2006, and we accept, not without nuances, as an improvement of the proposed definition of living beings with sensitivity. In our view, it would be much better and more precise to define them as sentient beings. This would be a real paradigm shift and not a mere terminological change, which, while we argue that it is necessary, we consider to be insufficient. We must start by talking about the inherent value of animals, the direct attribution of rights, that dignity is a universal value and everyone has equal right to be treated so that they are not reduced to the status of mere things, as if their reason for existence were merely a resource for humans. We are also in favour of the obligation on the part of spouses and the judicial authority to agree on the fate of pet animals in the event of invalidity, separation or divorce. We also believe that we should take one more step in this direction and consider the animal's interest in its well-being as superior. We believe that there are some important gaps in this PL as regards measures to be taken in the event of indications of animal abuse by some of the spouses, risk of animal abduction or obligations to cover the costs of care, among others. Our group is going to table amendments to this effect. We carry it on the electoral programme and we want to apply it in Catalonia in this legislature that has begun. Animals have an inherent value, not just an instrumental value for which we are human. It is therefore very important to establish a legal regime applicable to animals containing a well-defined framework for the protection of their interests, identifying the obligations and prohibitions of persons responsible for their care and good treatment. But beyond that, we need to open a collective debate on the desirability of promoting alternatives to animal use, provided that we achieve a world with less suffering, because suffering matters, comes from wherever it comes from, and not just because it bothers animals. A system that ignores the abuses committed against those who, because they are particularly vulnerable, need our protection is unfair and incompatible with a civic, democratic and solidarity society. The aim must be to improve the conditions of freedom and well-being of as many animals as possible, to defend their interests, to prevent situations of cruelty and ill-treatment, suffering, pain and anguish, abandonment, absence of assistance and neglect in their care. In short, they must be given the protection they deserve because of their status as sentient beings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u61	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to get into the VOX spokesperson's position much, which is the only objective he has is to get out in the media. But I do think that calling us all social criminals and, moreover, assuming that all the Members who are here do not care very much about animals, I wonder what right that claim can be made, up here in the House, a gentleman who was president of the Hunting Federation. The truth is that sometimes you don't understand how certain things can be said. Some of the previous spokesmen have quoted Gandhi and the phrase that one can judge the greatness of a nation and its moral progress by the way it treats animals. Well, really, if we look in a mirror in Spain we have a problem, and that mentality that we have heard has a lot to do with that problem. In Spain 150,000 pets are abandoned each year; 150,000, according to the protectors. I think we have a serious problem. But not only that, we are seeing these days the scandal of animal abuse experienced in the lab of Vivotecnia, thanks, by the way, to the videos taken from extranjis by an animalist organization; a scandal on which Mrs Ayuso's Madrid Community has received more than a thousand complaints and which, so far, has done absolutely nothing and the animals are still there. We can continue with many cases of animal abuse, not to mention the national holiday - what some call the national holiday - which is based on the blood sacrifice of an animal. I mean, really in Spain we are very far away, very far from being moderately well on the ranking of a deserved and fair animal treatment. Animals are not things, and that sums up the spirit of this initiative that was left half in the last legislature. It is an initiative that, as has been said, started Citizens; later, it picked up the People's Party and, now, Unite Podemos and the Socialist Party we bring to the House because it stayed half-hearted. It was a lot of hours of work, a lot of hours of talk, in which I was lucky enough to participate, that stayed half-hearted precisely because elections were called. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important work of this House and, therefore, we cannot be called social criminals who have been involved in this work. I find it unacceptable that these terms should be used here in a derogatory way against all of us and all of us. We can't accept it. It has also been said that we are facing a new case of progressive consensus. Well, I'm going to give you a brief summary of where the reform of civil codes on animal welfare comes from. [[The lady]] As a legal catalyst for the previous reforms being undertaken in Spain, we can cite the Protocol on the Protection and Welfare of Animals, annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Union, in its 1997 version. Then, in 2009, finally, the recognition of animals as sentient beings would reach full legal value as a general and constitutional principle of European Union law. This status of animals as sentient beings incorporated in the Treaty of Lisbon of 1 December 2009 also obliges the Member States of the European Union. In recent years there have been many legal systems that have been amending their civil legislation to abandon the status of animal thing. The first to do so was Austria in 1988, the second was Germany in 1990, Switzerland in 2003, for its part France reformed its Civil Code in 2015 to expressly declare that animals are sensitive living beings and, lastly, the most recent is Portugal. Outside the European sphere, I will quote countries such as Canada and New Zealand, and finally, under foreign civil law, Catalonia also changed the legal status of animals in 2006, specifying that they are not things and that only the rules of property are applied to them to allow their nature and making a regulatory reference to special legislation. Is this a progressive consensus? No, this is European legislation, this is the legislation of many European Union countries. On the other hand, I believe that those who have spoken in such thick terms have not even read the proposal we are bringing here, because what we are proposing are issues that would even be said to be of common sense. I mean, saying animals aren't things is something revolutionary? Do we really not understand at this point that animals are not things? But if 40% of Spanish households have a pet at home!, if there are 16 million animals in Spanish households! Most of the Spanish people understand what we are talking about and have perfectly assumed it and share it. This is a legal change that really has broad support, so it had so much consensus, so it came to where it came from, and it was a shame that it would not be adopted, because if it had been adopted in that legislature it would have been done with consensus. Not now, because there are those who use to break the consensus, whatever it is, for their media agenda and because we are in the middle of an electoral campaign; that is the crux of the whole issue. Finally, I am not going to go over all the issues addressed in the text because they have already been extensively detailed, especially by the Socialist Group's colleague, with whom we jointly put forward this proposal. I simply want to say that this legislative amendment will be the first step towards a new relationship between Spanish society and animals, and we really hope that this will not remain here. There are many other proposals that come from behind, including an animal welfare law, an amendment to the Criminal Code and other issues in which we will make progress in our right to live up to the standards of other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that on this occasion again this text will have the maximum consensus and that it will be approved by the majority that we really share this change in our society, which already recognizes the importance of those animals with which we share this ill-treated planet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. He seems to have heard a few things here, but it's true. If someone landed right now and saw a part of this real debate I would feel ashamed of some of the things that have been said. We are in the Congress of Deputies, we are facing a reform of a civil legal status. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, let us talk about what this reform is - some of you have done it, but others have not - and let us not mingle with spurious interests, because it also denotes what you are and what you do not know, and we are not in that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you bring a bill that is of many, as has already been said here. Some have reported it very well. It has been hard for him to say that it began with a bill in 2017 from the People's Group, and it is true, with a previous non-law proposal from the Citizens' Group. [[applause]] From there, and before then, many associations, many legal professionals working together and many speakers. I would like to remind my colleagues Avelino Barrionuevo, Francisco Molinero and Miguel, who is currently in the Senate, who participated in the presentation by the People's Group. I would like to remind the Affinity Foundation, the Justice and Animal Defence Observatory, the parliamentary association, ANAA, CoPPA and Faada, who worked with the Ministry of Justice, this parliamentary group and the other parliamentary groups. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of Podemos, you are presenting an initiative that is of many. They have acknowledged this, but I think it has to be borne in mind that it is an initiative of many. We presented the bill again in 2020, but we did so only with the initial text because it seemed respectful to us. I think you've learned Castells' lesson very well, remember, when he said the smart copy. You have also made a smart copy here, and it will also be the only way, apparently these days, for popular party initiatives to be approved. When he's changed the headline, they're good. If they have a People's Party header, they're not. I don't think it's a receipt. There is something else to be noted here today. Ladies and gentlemen, thirteen months have passed since the state of alarm contained on 14 March 2020, thirteen months in which it has not been possible for the Government to present an essential update to fight and give legal instruments against the pandemic, thirteen months refusing to acknowledge that they have to provide those legal instruments. They are asked to do so even by their socialist presidents of autonomous communities. And now you show that when you want, you can. This initiative was qualified on 23 March and we are considering it today. We ask you to follow this line, but for a legal plan B, because citizens need it, they demand it and we demand it. [[Applauds]] I am not going to tire them of what has already been said, but we are going to find out what this reform wants. Sit on the next one. There are some who deny the role that international bodies have played in so many things for human beings, also for animals, deny what the European Union does, and yet it is who has helped farmers, in the countryside. Farmers are the ones who love animals the most. We cannot establish these exclusions. Read the current Civil Code. This is a reform that updates and surpasses a nineteenth-century concept that cannot remain in the Civil Code. Ladies and gentlemen, ownership in the Civil Code was based on the idea that the owner could even destroy the thing, and that was overtaken a long time ago by a 1978 Constitution that determines the social function of ownership. How are we not going to do it for animals? That is what this reform is all about. [[Applauds]] You guys get out of reality. Of course, there are more and more lawsuits before the courts asking for cohabitation with the pet in the couple breakups, in the marriage breakups, in the family breakups. It is increasingly reflected in the regulatory conventions, but judges are without instruments. This is what it's about. I remind you of that film - if you haven't seen it, see it - always by your side, Hachiko, by Richard Gere. There have been many Hachikos in this pandemic, many waiting for their owner who died at the hospital door. Remember when they say some barbarity again. Those barbarities cannot be repeated. That's what this reform is about. This reform goes on to say that, considering that animals are not things, but living beings who feel, owners have duties and obligations. That's what happens. So far administrative legislation has drawn on the protection of animals. We have incorporated - and the People's Party has done so - reforms into the Penal Code, even if they need to be improved, but the civil legal status has to be transformed, and that is what this reform does, do not confuse it with anything else. It is important enough, it is necessary enough, and we are therefore grateful for the resumption of an interrupted reform. We are grateful that you consider it from everyone, from everyone who worked so hard for it, and let us make it clear, because people also need to work with a civil legal status when it comes to determining what happens to animals, what can be done with them. Many examples have been set this afternoon; our colleague Guillermo Díaz, from Citizens, has done so. At that point, they will find the People's Party, and also defending the countryside, the bullfighting, as we did in 2013, defending themselves with a law. You don't come now to discover the world. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u66	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on a plan of political measures and actions of the Government to combat the precarious situation of young people. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago I had the privilege of intervening for the first time in this Chamber, and the truth is that I remember it as if it were yesterday, not only because of the issue, which was the beginning of the repeal of the most harmful aspects of labour reform, but also because of the situation. It was the end of March and I remember the anguish we all had to face of something completely new, such as the COVID-19, the anguish of the temporary closure of most of the productive activity and also the need for eternal gratitude to those who were, are and will be essential services. Already at that time each and every one of you, each and every one of us and we were aware that this virus was going to change our lives and that, unfortunately, it was also going to affect us economically. We were talking about getting out closer, stronger and more supportive. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand when that spirit was lost and I do not understand how you can applaud, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Isabel Díaz Ayuso's denigrating, lacking and classist statements when it comes to our compatriots who see themselves in the need to resort to social aid as - and I quote textually - maintained subsidized. They should be ashamed of themselves, conservative ladies. [[Applauds]] Young people, ladies and gentlemen, live a period of adolescence as an eternal stage, as an impossible stage to overcome, because they have no options, because they do not give us the opportunity to do so. Over the past ten years, we will have had to deal with a tremendous financial economic crisis, a global pandemic and, if it were little, an economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic. And it's not that this is a complicated challenge, it's that it's an almost impossible challenge to overcome. Assuming the rules in the world that we have dealt with, it is the municipal, provincial, autonomous and national executives who have to face up to the tremendous inequalities that the capitalist system itself creates. The health crisis and subsequent economic crisis have only demonstrated a tremendously complicated reality for the young population, such as the lack of opportunities. There are not a few fronts that we have open for the young. Not only do we have to fight to continue to defend a public education that remains a quality education and continues to function as the social lift that has always been, despite its cuts. Not only do we have to suffer the job insecurity of the right-wing labour reform, with its temporary nature in its contracts and wage miseries, but we also have to see how real estate speculation, so many years backed by brick and bubble policy, makes a young man between 16 and 29 years old have to invest 93% of his salary in order to be able to emancipate himself and, of course, it is not surprising that only 18.6% of the people of this age group have managed to emancipate themselves, according to the last report of the Spanish Youth Council. But we have also had to swallow the toad of the adventurous spirit in the mouth of a minister of the People's Party, who intended to justify the exile and flight of talent of our country caused by its harmful policies. [[Applauds]] Obviously, this reality, ladies and gentlemen, passes the bill. The young population experiences anguish, discomfort, is immersed in disappointment and believes that they will live worse than their parents, and we politicians must give them answers, generate confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, the Spanish Government's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will guide the execution of €72 billion of European funds up to 2023, mobilizing Next Generation resources, in order to guarantee a horizon, a future for the next generations. For this reason, work is being done on both the imminent recovery of the economy and the establishment of a long-term transformative path, focusing on basic pillars such as education and employment. On the one hand, we will modernize and digitise the education system, including vocational training, making it more individualised and flexible, preventing early school leaving, the social and territorial divide, and subsequently promoting access to decent work opportunities. On the other hand, it is essential to address youth employment from the perspective of generational empowerment, retention of talent and promotion of entrepreneurship. Measures are envisaged to reformulate active employment policies, especially through quality youth employment, such as the Youth Plus Guarantee or the Youth Unemployment Shock Plan. Also, as Minister Ábalos advanced, the Government will allocate an extra EUR 2 billion to housing policies to implement between 2021 and 2023, earmarked for the rehabilitation of buildings and another EUR 1 billion for the increase of the public park of social and affordable housing. As I said, this parliamentary group and this Government are committed to the future of the next generations. We understand that we must reverse disappointment, the feeling of risk and permanent insecurity, the despair of being condemned to precariousness or, simply, the resignation of growing up without a life plan. I would like to rebut a statement that I have heard over many years in my life, because it is not true, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that the right hand manages the economy and employment better, because only progressive policies facilitate the reduction of inequality and temporality, because they affect redistribution, emancipation and social protection. The rest are tales, fables of mythological animals that, by repeating the same mantra, want to sell us. Moreover, I am a citizen of Madrid and a Member of Parliament for Madrid, and I have taken the leave to observe what the Autonomous Government of the Community of Madrid has approved in the last two years, that Autonomous Government formed by the Conservatives of Citizens, the Conservatives in cans of the People's Party and the Conservatives in cans expired from the far right, and I will remind you of one thing. The Community of Madrid has a rate of unemployment, youth unemployment above 35%, less than 20% of those under 30 years of age have managed to emancipate themselves, and in the face of this total emergency, you have adopted an overwhelming number of laws: a total of two, that of land liberalisation and the creation of a new private university. [[Applauds]] How can you tell who you are legislating and how you deal with the needs of young people! I'm done, Madam President. Today, young people look at this House in the same way that they did last week with the adoption of the Child Protection Act: they expect us to be able to debate, dialogue, agree and work on the same common goal, which cannot be another that our generation does not become the first generation that lives worse than that of their parents. It is in our hands and I assure you that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is on its way. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u68	In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which in turn will also lay down its position. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, first of all, to Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. At last week's monitoring session I was interested in the President of the Government for the dramatic evolution of employment in Spain, which has led us, with almost 40%, to be the red light in the youth unemployment rate, the latter with great difference. We are faced with a very major problem. It is therefore very disappointing that this non-legislative proposal consists only of a rather ethereal call to advance government plans and develop specific measures in a matter in which the Sánchez Government is failing strenuously. With no hope in the face of this monumental exercise of evanescent political literature of the Socialist Group, it has tabled an amendment to encourage the cooling of the labour market with measures on the public pension system that extend the approval of the contract relief and eliminate the penalties for workers with long service careers who want to retire in advance. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u70	Thank you very much. Secondly, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u71	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are witnessing a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party to urge the Socialist Party to comply with the Youth Constitution. [[Applauds]] Look, we have 40% youth unemployment and the Government of Spain is you. I think that the young people will be grateful that, in addition to coming here with a marketing plan, a balloon probe and throwing confetti, they will bring a plan to improve the opportunities of young people in our country; a plan to improve opportunities and that young people do not have to take a suitcase and take with them the future of Spain; a plan so that they do not have to renounce the right to have a home because they can emancipate; a plan of opportunities for talking about young employment is not the same as talking directly about precariousness. Because I remind you that the worst data for young people has always been with a socialist government, and what is evident is that you are much more of proclaiming than of making proposals. [[applause]] And I believe that what we should have here is, first of all, respect for young people, and come to this Parliament with proposals to move forward. We need a government that is obsessed with minimizing youth unemployment, but what we have are ministries that are obsessed with sandwiches, like talking about 'everything', 'child' or that sort of thing that we've been finding in ministerial statements this weekend. If you really are incompetent - that you do have and - go to the street - that also ends in e - but, on the way, stop ruining Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u72	The next item is Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u73	Thank you, President. I could devote the two minutes I have to talk about how mediocre it is that the government party comes here to talk about youth without contributing anything, but I am not going to do it because talking about youth today, apart from talking about precariousness, 40% unemployment, mental health and addictions to confinement, is also talking about future, joy, conviction, struggle, culture and music. On 1 October, in our country, the student movement and the youth movement were essential for our people to vote. This also happened in the reaction to the sentences or in the protests against the imprisonment of Pablo Hasel. The rebellious dignity was put on by the young women and the young women. And today the Sindicat d'Students dels Paísos Catalans has occupied two rectorates to demand public and quality university. So the first thing we want to do is thank him. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] And to those at home, to the young people who are at home, with sadness, with insecurity, with this future that we don't know what is going to happen, organize yourselves, go out on the street and do anger and sadness organization, struggle and political project.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u74	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Once again the Socialist Party is bringing us a GNP to urge the government to act, as if you were not the government. And once again we asked: Wouldn't it be better than to bring this here already? Unless, of course, it is a new episode in this peculiar exchange of communications that government partners usually make in Congress, in this case taking advantage of the fact that the work portfolio, one of which would have greater competence in this field, corresponds to Unidad Podemos. Really, truly, society would be very grateful if you would put yourselves to work to solve problems rather than send messages to each other in Parliament. Because, moreover, the PSOE proposal is, as is also customary, a lack of concreteness, which is why the BNG has tabled an amendment to clarify some aspects that we believe are essential. Because, you will see, the situation with regard to young people's work and life expectations is truly dramatic. Unemployment among children under the age of 25 is, in fact, 40%, and in the case of Galicia in 34, but with a peculiarity. In ten years -2009-2019 - more than 300,000 people marched from Galicia, fundamentally young and well-trained. We are talking about more than 10% of our country's population. Unemployment, emigration, precarious working conditions, difficulty in accessing housing; in short, it needs more than generalities and good will. That is why we are putting forward an amendment with specific proposals: a youth employment plan, a change in contractual typologies, industrial development and a limitation of rent prices, among others. We are in favour of all the amendments tabled by our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u76	For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree in substance on the issues that this initiative deals with, because it is difficult to be against, among other things, because it does not deepen, as should be an initiative of this House, the issues that matter and concern young people. What we disagree with - and we find ourselves again on the same subject - is the competition issue. Because you said: I, as a Madridn, have taken the license to analyze the legislative activity of the Madrid Assembly. And I, as a Catalan, have taken the license to read Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy, which says, in its article 142, that competence in youth matters is exclusive in Catalonia of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but neither a phrase nor a respite of anything is said to you in the initiative that you present here today. So, I say to you: if we are going to address this issue, we are going to address it not only on pre-campaign issues or to make a speech here on what is approved or not approved in the Madrid Assembly. Let us really discuss here the issues of concern to the young people of our country, let us look at how we can work from this House, without passing on any already established line of competence, so that we can accompany the young people of this country in their emancipation and in their leap to professional life. [[The Lord]] His optimism or benevolence clashed with the tone of the report of the Spanish Youth Council, which the ministry, to which his party supported, presented a few months ago. It defines two main problems that should be solved and are not. The first - and the report says so - is the scars of an incomplete recovery, referring to the previous economic and financial crisis. You will have something to do with this issue not being resolved yet. You will make three years in a few months of the motion of censure, which you know that I supported and that I do not hide, on the contrary, I celebrate and would do it again. But, man, it's been three years and we're still waiting to restore and regenerate the scars of the previous economic and financial crisis. You'll have something to do with that. Secondly, the chronification of precarious youth employment. I insist, something will have to do with that, something will have to do with it, and it does not seem that this initiative is going to address this issue from this point of view. That is why, Your Honor, youth employment in Spain is the highest in the Union, and you know it. Eurostat drew just a month ago this graph which is shocking. [[shows a graph]] Between 39.6 in Spain and 6.1 in Germany, there are 25 countries with better youth unemployment figures than ours. There is something that needs to be done, because the pandemic has affected all countries, some more than others, but it has affected all countries, also Germany, which still has 6.1 per cent youth unemployment. That is what needs to be pointed out, that is what needs to be looked at and that is what needs to be addressed with concrete measures. Honestly, Your Honor, I do not think that this initiative that you are presenting here today addresses them. We are not going to vote against it because, as I said, we share the meaning and substance of the matter, but because of competition issues and also questions of responsibility - because we believe that your Government, the government your party supports, should be more attentive - we are going to abstain in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u78	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u79	We talk so much about precariousness that we sometimes take for granted what it is; we should also remember it more often. Precarity is living under a vital instability, it is not knowing if you will find work, it is working in three places at a time to arrive at the end of the month, it is doing practices without paying the minimum wage and that your livelihood depends on the situation of your parents, it is that they can throw you out without reason of your work from one day to another, it is not knowing if you will be able to pay the monthly rent, it is wanting to emancipate and that it is materially impossible for you before 25, 30 or 35 years old. We have so normalized the precariousness that we even come to believe that not being precarious is a privilege. Living decently is not a privilege, it is a right. [[Applauds]] And anyone who says that not being insecure is a privilege is that he has neither been nor is likely to be and is probably getting rich at the expense of limiting the rights of others. The widespread precariousness has not arrived with the virus, it has only accentuated with the arrival of the virus. Most of the population were still suffering from the consequences of the 2008 crisis, and in the majority we were young people, a generation that we have not known, that we have not known a world without crisis. A generation that was decided not to be rescued from the public authorities and suffering the consequences of the jungle of neoliberalism: privileges for a few, poverty for the majority. A generation that needs strong answers and we want to decide about them. And no, to appeal to constitutional values to end precariousness without even proposing concrete proposals is not a strong response; and no, to reject the amendments proposing concrete proposals is not a strong response either; on the contrary, it seems to be a farce on the part of the Socialist Group, on the part of the Spanish Government. I'll give you a few examples. Enric has a contract of 20 hours per week, works 40 hours and charges 600 euros. He should be able to defend himself in front of the management of his company, but it turns out that if he moves, they threaten to fire him. And as the People's Party with the 2012 labor reform was responsible for eliminating processing wages, Enric and any young or underage worker has no defence or bargaining capacity. For the supposedly progressive government, this article of labour reform should not even be touched. Maria Antonia was fired at the beginning of the confinement because the company where she worked decreased her income. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not talking about being in red numbers, I'm talking about they made money, but a little less than the year before. The company did not commit any fraud, it simply relied on the same labour reform of the People's Party and, it seems, the current government does not intend to modify or repeal it either. Rosa is a migrant, she works without a contract, without a schedule and without knowing if she will charge any of it. This is due to the Aliens Act, whose regulation was promoted by the Socialist Party, which obliges migrants to work for three years in black in order to be able to access the papers. Nor does the Socialist Party intend to repeal this law. Bosch has decided to close its factory in Lliçà, where more than three hundred employees worked. Bosch was not obliged to request the closure of the plant from the public administration because the labour reform eliminated this process. As you can also imagine, the Socialist Party does not want to change it. Josep is 21 years old, lives alone and has run out of work for the pandemic. He needs the minimum living income, but he can't ask for it because he's not over 23 years old. Nor do they intend to lower the minimum living income to the age of majority, to the age of 18. Not to mention all the impediments we are encountering by setting limits to rental prices. Then you will be surprised that the young girl of the Catalan countries leans...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u80	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u81	... More and more so because of independence as a way of defending our rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u82	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about youth, the first thing I want to do, on behalf of the United Nations, is to reject the Nazi propaganda that I found myself at the metro station on my way to this plenary session. [[applause]] The fellow Member, Marta Rosique, asked the question of what is precarious. I ask you the question of what it means to be young, ladies and gentlemen. Youth is a stage of life, the period between childhood and adulthood. So far, everyone will agree. Youth begins with puberty, but we are not clear when this stage ends, when we stop being young and become adults. The end of youth, ladies and gentlemen, is not determined by biology, unlike in the beginning, but by society and what we have observed and announced in recent years is that the end of youth has grown longer and that the path to adulthood has many obstacles and, moreover, is no longer just a one-way road. The emancipation of youth, understood as the ability to carry out an autonomous life project, is today a violated right. Youth is a stage of life, yes, but it is also a cultural and therefore political concept. At the time of our grandmothers, young was until 21, then until the 25th and now tell us that until the 30th and until the 35th, basically because they tie the fate of youth to precariousness. It is not acceptable for an adult to have no place to live or work and that is why we delay the stage of youth. Given the inability to respond to the critical precariousness of young people, the answer is to delay their entry into adulthood. Delaying the youth stage is not a kind gesture to consider us all and all beings full of life, wills, dreams and lots of light; it is an act of cowardice and social resignation. We basically accept that it is normal for young people to cover less and have less opportunities and acceptance and resignation is the door to the most ruthless precariousness because as a society we accept and normalize it. In this very dramatic context, the Socialist Group is, in our view, bringing a sad GNP. Basically, they propose the development of specific measures and actions to address youth insecurity, but they do not make any concrete, and we do not feel welcome given the dramatic situation we have. So then we'll give you some ideas, not without first making an important point. Intervention began by defining youth as a stage of life. It is, but it is also a social condition in the scenario of power relations. There is a generational hierarchy in society, where youth is a condition of subordination to adults. Young people share a common structural position in a central adult society and the existence of a system of adult domination over young people, to which the idea of adult centralism refers, is reflected in everyday life. We see that the experience and knowledge of adults are valued and socially legitimized, while the knowledge of young people are, as a matter of fact, disqualified. Adultocentrism is that the forms and codes of youth are minimized. We have seen several waves of youth criminalization during this pandemic and we have also seen that adult people have a power of coercion that allows them to control young people. This is very evident in the field of education, in the family and even in the world of work. In the world of work we face the result of the neoliberal policies of previous governments, a structural precariousness that leaves us no certainty or plans for the future. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to normalize poverty and insecurity. Moreover, we have every intention of recovering the labour rights that have been stolen by the labour reform of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In relation to housing policies, the central adult gaze ignores the high consensus regarding the regulation of rental prices among the young population. He ignores that nine out of ten young people say they agree that rent prices should be regulated. It ignores that access to housing is one of the main problems of young people. He was unaware that a young person who wanted to access an average single rental house should spend 90 per cent of his salary. For this reason, and taking into account the great concerns of young people, we have tabled an amendment proposing two very concrete measures: to continue with the repeal of the 2012 labour reform and to promote the necessary regulatory measures to put a ceiling on the abusive increases in rent prices in certain areas of the strained market, precisely in the terms expressed in the government agreement that made this investment possible. We have many more ideas, but little time to explain them, so I will confine myself to concluding the partnership agreement between the Youth Council and the Generalitat in the Ariadn Young Rescue Plan under the European funds. It seems to us that this is the way: to allocate the resources of European funds to specific programmes for young people and to include youth participation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u84	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u85	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has that unique gift of being able to get over itself even with its own initiatives. That's a mess! To read your propositions you have to be prepared for what can come, because what is certain is that from them come ridiculous curves. Of course, what can be expected of those who all solve it by prostitution the Spanish language with their children and 'children' and not focusing on the real problems of young people? But their storms don't end there. Unable to tell the truth - that we all know: that you in the last year have sunk the economy and have led Spain to be the number one in youth unemployment -, your own disaster, which continues to grow, is to argue that these problems of young people reside in the economic crisis of 2008, precisely when Rodriguez Zapatero ruled, and as if you had just come to power and found the cake just out of the oven. If not, tell us what your Social Communist Government has done in the time they have been carrying out in its blue armchairs so that our youth is not the most disadvantaged in terms of work and pay throughout the European Union. Are we talking about objective and real data, which you omit in your proposal? Let's give you some data. During the first months of the pandemic, the number of those under 25 years of age fell by 13%, almost four times more than the national total; and, according to Eurostat data, in the last year 6 out of 10 new young unemployed in Europe are Spanish. But there's more. Just a week and a half ago, the Foundation for Applied Economics Studies issued a report analysing the impact of the crisis on the young labour market. Wow! He had done so since the last thirty years, not since 2008; for thirty years, and in 1991 he was Felipe González the president of the Government of Spain. For this study shows that each recession generates a recession in the employment situation of young people and that it has been cumulative for thirty years. Therefore, the negative drift comes from far further and always comes from their hands. Whether for thirty years or since 2008 it is thirty years of your desire that - that is - leads us, thanks to you, to lead something in Spain. Yes, it leads us to lead the abandonment towards our young people. Arrived at this point, and along with his empty speeches of content, the drop that fills the glass. You justify your initiative in which we are faced with a process of precariousness and survival of many young people that can lead to radicalisation. What a sinister argument! You always do typifications towards some collective; today you have touched young people. What young people need precisely and what they deserve is a salary of hope in their future. That is why, despite the inconsistencies, empty speeches and lack of empathy with them in their non-legislative proposal, and because in VOX we do want all possible political actions to be activated so that young people can take flight and fulfil their aspirations, we have amended their GNP. Start by breaking the agreement reached with Bildu, who seeks to return to the framework of labor relations designed by the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, which caused a very high rate of temporaryity among young people: it came to exceed 61% between less than 25 years - yes, Mr.Anguita - and caused the destruction of more than 1 million jobs among under 25 years of age during that great depression and 2 million - I repeat: 2 million - among under 35. [[Mr. Anguita Pérez utters words that are not perceived]] That is, 70% of the jobs destroyed between 2007 and 2012 were among young people. In order not to repeat that catastrophe - they are already spraying it, by the way - we urge them to break that pact with the heirs of ETA, those who should not occupy any armchair in this Chamber, because they do not intend to rescue the young people from the shipwreck in which they are counted thanks to their historical, non-existent, youth policies. [[applause]] That agreement only shows that you do not look at the interest of young people, but, once again, shows that what you propose are only smokescreens, empty promises and advertising on sale. The VOX Parliamentary Group today urges you to break this agreement with those...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, your time is up. Please, go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u87	... represent alone - I finish, Mr. President - blood spilled and snatched to compatriots. They break that agreement with the representatives and delegates of the mass murderers today. We urge you to do this because, if you carry it out, young people...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u88	Your Honor, finish, please. Your time's up. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u89	It's over, Mr. President. You're still in time to rescue your own... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u90	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. To clarify, I will say that I am here representing more than three hundred thousand Basques and Basques who have decided to give me their support. They will not see their grandchildren that any representative of VOX by Araba, Bizkaia, Guipuzkoa or Nafarroa comes up here, because I come from a deeply anti-fascist people. That is probably why we are here representing more than three hundred thousand Basque and Basque citizens. You couldn't even fill a microbus with those who vote for you. I focus on the matter. I would like to thank the representative of the Socialist Group for part of the content of the initiative, not the whole initiative. And I say part because it seems to me important that in the justification of reasons I review all the articles of the Constitution that are systematically violated or that are systematically not addressed in their entirety: the right to work; the right to housing; the right to education; the right to social protection. There is a whole set of rights that could dignify the lives of young people. This review shows that the Constitution is a wet paper when it comes to defending the rights of young people, such as the rights of workers or the rights of women, but it is an unfathomable stone when it comes to defending the rights of the elite. In other words, the 1978 Constitution is as useless now as it was before to defend the rights of young people, and I am sorry for the parents of the Constitution, for it has proved to be a useless or absolutely useless tool to address this issue. It may have to do with third-generation social and economic rights, which are sometimes explained here from the right, but which do nothing but reaffirm that the 1931 one was much more advanced than it is. So it's also time for the Republican flags to be dusted off to start walking in that direction. It then raises a number of issues that cannot be agreed with. They argue that this precarious situation of young people has to do with the start of the 2008 economic and financial crisis, and that is not true. It is not true, it has to do with the support of an economic and social model that needs cheap labour, skilled and cheap labour, which serves the optimization and maximization of profit. That is the capitalist model and, probably, that is what has to be said, and not that from the economic and financial crisis of 2008 everything starts, because before there was already precariousness and there were governments of different signs, People's Party or Socialist Party, who had to ride or walk alongside precariousness. Therefore, if this is the case, is there any kind of clear, robust, substantial measure that will determine that we are now going to change the course of policies carried out in the Spanish State in order to put an end to precariousness? Well, honestly, no. No, I don't know if because of lack of will; no, I don't know if because of lack of ambition; or not, I don't even know if because of what they also say in the proposition itself, which is to disable any escape valve that precipitates a phenomenon of social explosion as a reaction. I, if I close my eyes and retreat decades ago to look for some student movement or youth movement that has been socially reactive, and I remember May of '68, for example, by quoting one, I would think that these words have more to do with Pompidou or Charles Degaulle, than with Daniel Cohn-Bendit or with Alain Krivine, with whom, surely, anyone on the left would want to have a higher level of closeness. However, speaking seriously and in depth of what this initiative means, I think it is important to ask ourselves what or who is precarious of young people, not all young people to the same extent; above all, young people in the working classes and, above all, whether you are a woman in double precariousness. In any case, what makes them precarious? What makes them precarious is this job reform and the previous ones. What is precarious to them is to have to accept that 1000 euros is an arrival horizon and not a starting point; and that can be solved by repealing labour reform. You, who are in the government, repeal it. What is precarious for young people is that they cannot have access to decent housing, that they have to wait until they are thirty years old to emancipate themselves; and, perhaps, by doing policies, such as limiting the price of rent, that could be done away with. You, who are in government, do it. What is precarious for young people is that they are subject to temporary contracts or contracts in the hands of temporary workers. Perhaps we should also start to regulate, in a much stronger way, temporary work enterprises. You, who are the government, do it. What also makes them precarious is that minimum living income, for example, is not accessible to children under 30 years of age, as the Spanish Youth Council reminded them. Well, you, who are in the government, propose things in this. What is precarious for young people is to remain the guinea pigs of a plan, the Bologna Plan, which only does what it does is to seek cheap labour for the business market, which is to seek in education the quarry or niche for businesses. You, who are in government, also end that humiliating experience for the young. It's over now. What makes the young people precarious is to leave them as the only tool the jungle of gambling houses, while closing self-management social spaces. You, who are in government, bet on self-management social spaces or, at least, don't close them, and make gambling houses difficult. In any case, and to conclude, what is precarious for young people is that when they dare to react, when they dare to turn their anger into a proposal, they encounter a law that stalks and criminalizes them. You, who are in government, put an end to the law of gags.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u92	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u93	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that almost all the sticks, except the one that can be given to the PP later, in relation to this initiative, have already been taken away and few things I can add in reality, except, perhaps, to focus on an issue on which it is always the PNV that has to take the face on this issue, but it is the same as always; on what basis are we exercising these youth policies? Who are those who, in some way, can bring solutions closer to young people? Who are the ones who can achieve job insecurity, approaching employment or making affordable housing policies in terms of rents or any other? Well, those institutions, those entities, those nearest administrations. The first thing that draws attention to in this non-legislative proposal is the competition title referred to in its heading, article 48 of the Constitution, which is a title, to say the least, of very little normative tradition. On the contrary, we have the proof that absolutely all territorial, local, outlying and autonomous administrations have traditionally been actors and participants in youth policies, which have led the initiative in these kinds of matters. There are two references in the Constitution to youth, in article 24 and in article 48, one in the sphere of protection and the other in the sphere of impulse, but there is no explicit reference to youth except in article 148.1.19 in reference to the autonomous communities, and it is precisely the statutes of autonomy of virtually all the autonomous communities that collect in particular the matter of youth to be developed. On the other hand, 43.3, 27 and 30 do have some reference, but they do not have an explicit reference for the State to be able to develop this matter, except curiously the rulings of the Constitutional Court, which from 13/1992 stated that it was a concurrent jurisdiction and on the basis of which the State has been exercising some initiatives in this area, the Youth Guarantee Plan, etc. The question is how effective the State is when it comes to sectoral policies that are exercising other territorial administrations, such as the autonomous communities, and the truth is that in very little. The Basque Parliament is currently in the process of drafting a youth bill submitted by the Basque Government, in agreement also with the Socialist Party which, by the way, participates in the same Government, whose structural elements are the policies of - I will quote - employment, education, housing, equality between women and men, sexual diversity, services, culture, sport, leisure and leisure, health and prevention, environment, consumption, information society, volunteering, rural environment, mobility, coexistence, autonomy, return of those who are abroad. These are all issues that the autonomous community will obviously be able to develop in the exercise of its own powers. So what do the State's policies in parallel with these have to do? We can put forward one that has traditionally been exercised, employment policies, but precisely with regard to it we are talking, on the one hand, about the transfer of SEPE's competences that we are demanding from the Basque Government, and on the other hand, we are also talking about the transfer of minimum vital income and the exercise of it in another way, and we are also talking about vocational training, which has also had its own sequence and activity. Let us remember that dual formation is a pioneer in Euskadi and that it has been from there from where it has spread to the rest of the territory. What, then, are the policies regarding the youth of the State that this own GNP poses? I'm sorry, but they seem more propagandistic than anything else. It is, with all due respect, an exchange of misconceptions between the right and the left to agitate between them at a level of confrontation that does not lead to any kind of solution or lead to any effective outcome. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot participate in this misunderstanding, as I have already mentioned; we cannot support it. And of course we are not going to participate in a policy of confrontation that neither leads to anything nor gives any solution to youth, and we demand, as always, that solutions be given on the side of the most effective administrations from the material point of view and close to the individual. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u94	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u95	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is already on its way. That is what Mr Anguita has said, and it is true, because the Socialist Group is again using this rostrum to campaign. Ivan, what are we talking about this week? Well, let's talk about young people, that we're in the campaign, and that gives us a lot of votes, and let's talk about young people from Madrid. However, you have been in government since 2018 and have not yet dealt with this group. It is shameful, Mr Anguita, that you, having at your disposal the Official Gazette of the State, use the rostrum to campaign and no longer get to work. But do you want to talk about young people? Let's talk, let's talk about them and what you could do and don't do. Let us speak of those young people who in most cases have not recovered from the previous crisis, who continue to have precarious jobs, most of whom are temporary jobs, very short-lived and with wages below the generations that preceded them, young people who have not yet been able to emancipate or independence because of the lack of resources, the instability of their income or the high prices of housing, or those young people who do not intend to form a family not because they do not want to, but because they cannot, young people who, barely overcome the crisis of 2008, aspired to have their first contract that was not in practice or temporary that would allow them to think of not sharing land and embarking on an independent life. Mr. Anguita, let's talk about young people, let's talk about them, of course. What have you done for them, for young people, in the last three years? Nothing, n-a-d-a, nothing, and they know it. They know that this situation, far from being cyclical, has deep structural problems which need a comprehensive and holistic reform of public policies, deep structural problems such as the decoupling of education and the labour market, such as the problems of the labour market institutions themselves which lead to an overreaction of young people's labour variables to fluctuations in economic activity; problems such as the complex transition from school to work or from this compensatory system which discriminates against the insiders of the system to the detriment of young people, under-trained groups or women; structural problems, Mr. Anguilla, which mark our young people, mark them in terms of independence, of access to housing owned or in the formation of a family, three transcendental steps in the life of any citizen and which they end up postponing, in many cases sine die, because of economic and labour instability, and then we wonder how Spain can be one of the countries with the lowest birth and fertility rates of developed countries, right? Let's keep talking about young people, ladies and gentlemen. We will enter the Spanish educational system, an outdated system, which gives tools of the last century, which does not think about innovation, which does not encourage critical thinking, versatility or entrepreneurship. Do you want us to talk about young people and the labour market, Mr. Anguita? Let's talk, let's talk about those young people who, when they get to the labour market, only get contracts in very low-paid practices, and when that contract ends, the vast majority go out on the street even though they have become efficient workers who bring value. Macroeconomic data on the use of the latest Fedea report have already been read here. They are totally discouraging data that speak of precariousness, of that worse remuneration than in the 1980s, of that duration of precarious contracts. You talk about using the Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Plan to recover this. You gave everything to the European funds. However, none of this is in the initiative, because the initiative brought by the Socialist Group says exactly that the Government is urged to implement the Constitution. Mr. Anguita, your electoral initiative is useless because it is not going to solve anything for young people. If they want to do something for them we need courageous and sensible reforms, and only if they take that responsible path will they find Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u96	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u97	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When I read that the Socialist Party was bringing a proposal this afternoon to combat precariousness and youth unemployment, I asked myself whether I was joking or serious, whether it would be a joke that the party that every time it arrived at the Government has fired the data on youth unemployment, that every time it arrived at the Government has caused a generation lost for employment to come to this House to talk about youth, unemployment and precariousness. Then, seeing the Madrid campaign, in which they started criticizing everything the PP was doing and now his candidate says he's going to do everything the PP was doing, I thought that maybe what they were going to do was to implement the economic policies of the People's Party and therefore create jobs. It's never too late if the bliss is good, ladies and gentlemen. I've seen, Mr. Anguita, that's not the case. But if it is serious - they seem to be serious - then it must be recognized that precariousness and youth unemployment in the Socialist Party are experts. Gonzalez left thousands of people unemployed as a legacy of his government; Zapatero left one of every two young people who wanted to work without a job; today, again, with Sánchez and his left-wing government, the youth unemployment rate in Spain rises above 40%, at the head of the European Union. And it is true that on this occasion we are in the middle of a pandemic that has had disastrous economic consequences all over the world, it is true, but according to Eurostat, in Germany youth unemployment has risen by 0.5%, in Italy by 1.3%, in Portugal by 3.8% and in Spain by 10.4%, an increase without any comparison in any European country. All of us have been hit by the same pandemic, but none have been hit by the same government as the Spaniards. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] 40% unemployment is not just a figure, it means that 572 000 young people have studied to be independent and now they want to work and cannot, that they were going to leave their parents' house no longer can, they were going to undertake and they are not going to do it, I had thought of forming a family and now it is impossible. After more than a year of pandemic, the Government has not submitted any specific plans to address the effects of COVID on youth employment. You didn't have to introduce him nine times, as Sanchez likes, it was enough to introduce him only once. Or, more easily, not having voted against the People's Group's amendment to the State General Budgets to provide an additional EUR 500 million for youth employment. Meanwhile, the Minister of Employment, Mrs Yolanda Díaz, lives in self-congratulation. He has only managed to place Mr Enrique Santiago in full employment, who we have seen as Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, Secretary of the European Parliament, Vice-President of the Commission, but the young Spaniards are not so lucky. [[applause]] And to be so of Podemos, so of Podemos, the minister has enthusiastically adhered to an appointment attributed to a conservative politician, Winston Churchill, when he said that he did not trust any statistical data that he had not previously manipulated himself. Because in what is a practicing communist the minister is in the lie. It is false - you said so too, Mr Anguita - that they repeat that the policies of the PP destroy young employment. The trend that Rodriguez Zapatero left was not changed in two days, it cost years to change it, and unemployment continued to rise at first, but we did, we went from 48% in 2011, when the PP came to the government, to 34% unemployment when he left; it's 14 points less and thousands less unemployed. Of course, there are always problems to be solved: reducing time, improving wages, but the difference is important. When the PP governs, what is discussed is the quality of the job that is created. When governing the PSOE what is discussed is the amount of employment that is destroyed. That's not the same, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the left, our generation does not need its paternalism, it does not need to collect us, that they push us to the precipice of the grievances to throw us after the lifesaver of their subsidies; it simply needs to let us live in freedom, because history shows that it has always been the youngest who have raised the flag of freedom the highest. It was the younger ones who destroyed and destroyed the Berlin Wall with their hands, the younger ones who stood in front of the tanks in Tiananmen Square, those in Spain who promoted the peaceful transition from dictatorship to democracy, those who today also resist in Venezuelan universities the tyranny of their friend Maduro, those who will once again push political change - hold it for sure, Mr.Anguita - those who will push Isabel Díaz Ayuso to the Presidency of the Community of Madrid on May 4th and then push Pablo Casado to the palace of Moncloa. [[Applauds]] The Left is allergic to more freedom because it knows that if young people can choose between socialism and freedom, they will never choose socialism, they will always choose freedom. That is what scares the strategists of Moncloa and what drives us to continue working for a promising future for Spain. They won't fool us with their pre-electoral siren chants. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we are young but not fools. We are not voting in favour of this electoral and opportunistic GNP. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Anguita, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u99	No, we keep the initial text.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u100	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE) in common (CGE) on the defence of democratic values. [[File number 162/000625]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u101	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the defence of democratic values. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u102	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling that in a month of April like this in 1993, the far right murdered Guillem Aguló. Twenty-three years later the killers are free, but their family, their memory remains an example of anti-fascist dignity that we cannot forget. We cannot forget either him or the rest of the victims of hatred, because to do so is to forget the forces that provoked it without being able to defeat them now, which are more present than ever. That is why this non-law proposal, not to forget, not to whitewash, not to minimize the crimes of the extreme right and their provocations. As we saw in the Red Square of Vallecas, the extreme right often follows the same strategy: provocation, response and victimization, and they have powerful media amplifiers and accomplices that tease them or look elsewhere because they think they don't go with them. But I think we can't forget that fascism didn't start in crematoriums. First came fear, selfishness, resignation, distrust of neighbors, provocations and then came hatred. Hate did not burn in nothing, burned among frightened people, who needed scapegoats with speeches not so different from those we have heard on too many occasions in this House. Last week, Mr.Abascal practically called the civil confrontation when with a dock in his hand he warned us in a subtle way: 'What would happen if we responded in the same way?' And he also justified the 1936 coup-fascist against what he called the Criminal Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you talk a lot about the cowardly right and sometimes you try to go like thugs, but everyone knows that yours is a party of young men, and the young men don't stain their hands, the young men send others to do the dirty work. And that's what this non-law proposal is about, how others lock the wick in the streets with the gasoline you put with your slogans, with bubbles like the ones we saw this morning on the subway against unaccompanied minors. What a shame of electoral advertising! [[Applauds]] That is why we are not talking only about the dozens of attacks in recent months on the headquarters of our parties, such as that of Cartagena, not even about the climate of coercion and death threats or aggressions that have occurred against our public offices or other parties; we are also talking about precisely that, the grenade launched against the juvenile centre in Hortaleza or the attacks on the associations of neighbours, against the LGBT collectives in Chueca, in Coslada, and even the sniper who planned to assassinate the President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn our backs on that reality, it is a serious threat. We are told by the international reports of Europol and the United Nations. According to the Global Terrorism Index 2020, do you know how much extreme right-wing terrorist attacks have increased worldwide over the past five years? 320 per cent. That means that in the global terrorist attacks of 2019 6% were jihadism and 17% of the extreme right, that gives us the dimension of the gravity of the phenomenon we face, and that is why we think there has to be a specific pronouncement of rejection of that violence. We agree with the content of some amendments, such as that of the PNV; we are against any kind of violence. But, just as there are specific pronouncements against jihadist violence or degenerate violence, against women, we believe that there must also be a specific pronouncement against this threat to democracy, because it is a serious threat. We've seen him in the United States with VOX's accomplices, who have tried to make a coup d'état. And Spain cannot be an exception to the condemnation of fascism. We have a foundation that bears the dictator's name and a party that says those who want to shoot more than twenty-six million reds are theirs. But while the President of the European Parliament made a clear condemnation of that attack on our headquarters in Cartagena, do you know what the People's Party was doing? I was putting VOX advisors in the government of Murcia. And while President Merkel from the German Parliament warned about the dangers of the extreme right, do you know what she said in Madrid Ayuso? To be a fascist is to be on the bright side of history. And while Hasel or Cuixart are in jail, the Fascists of Blanquerna are on the street, and one of them can even run for election. In this country, when a container is burned in Catalonia or in the Basque Country, the news is broadcast, but with a fascist attack with explosives at the headquarters of a government party there is silence, no cover. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not normal and today we have the opportunity to send a high and clear message to Europe; the message of this House's commitment to its founding values, to the democratic values of the European Union; a message that makes it clear that in the face of extreme right-wing violence there is no equidistance that is worth it because we play freedom, not the freedom of the saver who can of Ayuso, the freedom to drink a beer, but the freedom that gives solidarity, social justice and the rights conquered by those who preceded us. That is why the best answer to those who want to re-freeze our hearts, in the face of racism, in the face of xenophobia, is to fill the ballot box with hope this May 4, to mobilize to Madrid the applause for public health, the Madrid popular de Vallecas, the Madrid proud of the 'no passer', the Madrid feminist of 8-M or 15-M, the Madrid of which Machado spoke, breakers of Spain, to beat, comfortable, to the extreme right in the ballot box. To the far right it is defeated by winning and ruling for the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that is going to be our only answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u103	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, this specific attack on Cartagena is not an exceptional event that is beginning to produce a kind of new dynamic. Such attacks occur against the headquarters of political parties and other organizations. We strongly condemn this and other attacks carried out by extreme right-wing groups; we already know their aggressive and lacking ways even in parliamentary settings. But here it has to be said, because it is so: In the day to day there are attacks on more people and from different angles, from other ideological angles. It seems to me that the aim of this proposal should be to defend the values of democracy and non-violence, and we should focus on that. In Euskadi we know of these aggressions and attitudes, we have known for decades, for a long time; less now, but still. In Euskadi we managed to make a common text between the Socialist Party, Podemos and the Basque Nationalist Party when we can suggest this PNL that you are debating, and it is exactly that text that we signed between the three parties, and that they refused to sign Bildu, PP and VOX, which we tabled as an amendment; a text agreed by PSOE, Podemos and the Basque Nationalist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, there are objective data. In the past year, because I have not left before, there have been more than fifty attacks on the headquarters of the Basque Nationalist Party. I am also talking about this year, that is, in the last year, in the last twelve months; also this year there have been. To the PSOE, that I have counted, at least twenty-one attacks; one even, one more, to the home of the leader of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and those attacks have not been precisely right-wing. In fact, Podemos also at his headquarters in Durango and Vitoria; the last attack on a headquarters in Podemos was on February 15, 2021. And I'm going to read you some of the texts I had painted, for example, at a PSOE headquarters: 'Carcels!', 'Pablo Hasel aske!'; 'Amnesty bear!'. In another seat of the PSOE: 'Death to the Fascist State! Guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, At its headquarters, in Podemos: 'Burgesiaren diktadura gelditu!'. I don't think these are extreme right messages in this case. Of course there have been attacks and there are extreme right attacks!, but there are also others. Rafaela Romero, a socialist leader, replied to these paintings in a way I subscribe to. He said, 'Neither now does he fear us, nor tomorrow. Fascism is that of those who, changing justification, continue with their intolerant, violent and cowardly action. New times, old customs.' Yes, there has been bullying, and there still is in some sector. Of course there are attacks there by extreme right and extreme left groups; I would say that in the case of Euskadi more extreme left. And yes, there have been attempts to create a climate designed to intimidate the population, and sustained by political formations. That is intolerable and we must denounce it; some still have these tics. All these attacks, all these threats are unacceptable. I see Roberto Uriarte now, but I can also tell you my experience. Mitines, political acts, against demonstrations, threats, insults, attacks: that has been our daily bread, and still some continue with that tick. I insist, only to the headquarters of the Basque Nationalist Party, more than fifty attacks in the last year. All this is unacceptable from the extreme, because fascism is not combated with intolerance of another colour but with identical care. We offer a comprehensive text that prompted the agreement of three political groups, one of them presenting the non-law proposal here. Others did not want to sign it, but we believe it is an understanding text, which reflects the current reality and the basic principles of defending democracy and non-violence. I hope that We can understand this and do not want to focus its initiative only on concrete and recent attacks on your party, because there is more and more of a different character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u105	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u106	Thank you, President. Citizens condemn the attack on the headquarters of Podemos. Having said that, they present here a partial condemnation of violence, another, and for that to be a total condemnation, it is for that reason that we have tabled an amendment, so that violence can be condemned regardless of the adjective that follows it, the one that comes from the extreme right, the one that comes from the extreme left and the one that comes from where it comes from. This proposal We can only talk about condemning fascism. Apart from the trivialization of terms, have we not seen throwing stones or burning streets from the far left? Some are performing a very serious exercise of irresponsibility. I know they've detected that the grudge mobilizes themselves and that it can give votes, but at what price? How much will it cost us that politicians surrounded by escorts and who want to live from the confrontation orange to the civil confrontation of those who do not have escorts or live from the confrontation? That they stick, they need to say. It's a lie that the Spaniards are Cainites, it's a fallacy; the Cainites are some of you. Let them know that with this little game they can destroy the country of which they intend to live. They show that they care much more about their party or their parties than about Spain. But I warn you: No party survives their country. How many times are we going to have to suffer a civil confrontation in order for the political class to realize that no electoral result is worth the bloodshed of a Spanish citizen or any citizen anywhere? There is no ideology more important than the peaceful coexistence of the Spaniards. Today they seek polarization in Spain and the parasitization of the past to extract revenues in the present. Those who were not in the civil war come to milk it, to revive the sides. They want to force us to choose between one Spain or another. There are no two Spains, there is no choice between communism or freedom or between socialism or far right, in a simplistic reduction that can only make those who have lived the whole life of politics. Only those who have not worked in their lives outside politics can think that the problems of the Spaniards are communism or freedom or socialism or far right. The real problems are related to vaccinations or not, unemployment or employment, being able to have children or not, arriving at the end of the month or not. You go up to this rostrum, well paid, living in your good homes, with a protection from which you lack citizenship, to shout out 'fascists' to some, 'communists' to others and then go down to read the tweets and laugh in your seat because you are aware of overperformance. Some say that they fight for unity in Spain but first split it in half, and others say they represent the working class but insult when they vote for others. They want to force us to choose, and the one who doesn't choose has to be charged. That's why they'll come up here and call us equidistants, but they're wrong about the adjective. Do not equidist, because you cannot equidist between two points that are very close together. Citizens do not make the Spaniards choose between two Spains. There has to be an alternative that doesn't force you to choose which freedom you take from me, which half I'm from, which half I'm against. There has to be that third Spain that bothers the extremes so much and that they strive to eliminate; they have already done so in the past. I will not choose sides; you are my compatriots too, all of you, and I respect you, but I ask you to stop this spiral. The other day a somewhat exalted sympathizer of one of these parties, quite prominent, escaped in a tweet that, if it was necessary to reach a civil war, would arrive. He erased it, they had to give him a touch, and they said, "Hey, hide a little, at least." I will end up reading a text from a reference for Citizens of that Spain who broke the extremes and that seems like you want to re-edit. The text is written by Manuel Chaves Nogales from exile in 1937: 'Here, in this humble little hotel of a Parisian ravine live badly and wait to die the most diverse specimens of old Europe: Russian popes, German Jews, Italian revolutionaries... I do not want to join this legion... of the 'rooted' and, although I feel like an affront to being Spanish, I strive to maintain a purely spiritual Spanish citizenship, which neither white nor red can have.' Like Chaves Nogales, no one will be able to dispose of the great fortune I had at birth, the fortune of being Spanish. But in Citizens we only conceived to be Spanish in one way, which is to be Spanish in freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u107	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gago Bugarín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Throughout the more than forty years of our party's history, we have suffered all kinds of aggressions and violent acts: in our headquarters, with our leaders, even with some representatives of the people, who neither had nor sought any kind of mediaticity, and many of them did not charge a single cent to devote themselves to the vocation of public service to others. I do not think it is necessary to remember how some of them ended up defending individual freedom, thinking differently and, ultimately, so that today we can be here defending freely and debating peacefully. [[Applauds]] Of course, we condemn any violent act, come from wherever it comes from, attack anyone who attacks, and, in the end, we will never allow it, because it is a fundamental essence of the People's Party, nor to overlook any act of violence that deprives individual freedom. But, gentlemen of Podemos, what we are not going to tolerate is that, while you throw the stone with your left hand, with your right hand, you sybilically hide behind the Constitution. And, of course, what we're not going to do is not get into your game with this GNP either. Taking advantage of the condemnation of a violent act, it turns out that they dare to talk about some political parties promoting hatred, practicing incendiary rhetoric on social networks or disrespecting institutions. We wonder: Are they really telling us this seriously? Are we really being fooled by all the Spaniards, after the trajectory they have had during the last seven years in our country's political activity? You live, literally, in political polarization and the normalization of violence. It is the fundamental essence of its way of doing politics, it is the fundamental essence of its existence. And it is true that saying that the worse, the better; it comes perfectly to their hair. The problem is that you are now in the government, that is the big problem: members of a government who question our institutions with the benevolence of the Socialist Party and with the benevolence of Mr Sánchez from Moncloa. This is the big problem and this is part of the reality that Spain has right now. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards met Mr. Iglesias for the first time in his student phase, when he dedicated himself to supporting extreme leftist groups by supporting revolts, assaulting shops and breaking windows in the streets of Genoa, Italy. The Global Resistance Movement was called the peaceful group led by Mr. Iglesias. Then he left us, on the last day, a phrase worthy of an entire Nobel Peace Prize. After 17 detainees, after a dead protestor, after dozens of wounded police officers, after a hundred shops or more bursting, Mr. Iglesias presented himself in front of all the media and said: 'We will continue to carry out civil disobedience practices on the streets'. What are we missing? These are the origins of the leader of Podemos. And from there came the squabbles, from there the fence was opened and from there nothing misses us anymore. We already see a leader of Podemos who has an assistant in his house without discharge in Social Security, Mr. Iglesias usurping for a year the card of a mobile terminal of an adviser of his parliamentary group; the candidate of the Community of Madrid, Mr. Iglesias, affirming that a man who first formed part of the armed arm and after the political arm of the terrorist band ETA is now the democratic example, the man we have to look at all the Spaniards; not the judiciary, not the State Security Forces and Bodies, and not any of us here, but Mr. Otegi. And, of course, we have heard them also say that the criminal Pablo Hasel - still repeated himself here today - had to be acquitted, because, of course, this of wishing death to the head of state is, at least, freedom of expression. This is what you say when you come here to talk about democratic values. And, of course, they justify and encourage from the government the vandalistic acts of the anti-system groups in the streets of Madrid and Barcelona and question the freedom of the press, defending the control of all the media, as they try to do with public television; that is, let alone one, that of La tuska, that it can receive funding from any country with regime of dubious democratic exercise and without any kind of control. And then it also disappears from the ethical code of Podemos the criterion of resignation when there is an accused or, as has already been said, they accumulate not only doubles, but triples of positions in some members, as in the Secretary of State for the 2030 Agenda, which I believe is a fairly relevant topic. Therefore, principles do, that I no longer have any. In short, this GNP, beyond condemnation, is a wave to democratic Spain and to all Spaniards. If you want to respect democratic values, do exactly the opposite of what you are doing. That is, respect for democratic values means complying with the Constitution and the legal order, supporting the Head of State, condemning attacks on the State Security Forces and Bodies, censoring verbal attacks, protecting private property, guaranteeing freedom of the press, lowering taxes and ultimately projecting equal opportunities for all Spaniards. That is what a democratic party defends and that is what we will continue to defend; condemning all violent acts, but, of course, facing communism with freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although you are committed to degrading it, Mr Asens, we are in a State of law which has in the Constitution the tool from which the Spanish nation has proclaimed since 1978 its will to ensure democratic coexistence and the rule of law as an expression of popular will, as well as, among other aspects contained in its preamble, the protection of all Spaniards and their peoples in the exercise of human rights. The same Constitution that you denigrate serves me to condemn all kinds of violence, whether against a Cartagena headquarters or against anyone else. That is why it does not fall into this parliamentary farce of the same which a month ago encouraged serious incidents on the streets, censor police action even from the government and found a thousand pretexts to justify the looting of shops and bank branches or personal and family looting. Freedom and democratic values are always defended, gentlemen of Podemos, and not only when it suits them in their electoral stratagems; always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u111	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, I now give the floor to Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our total and absolute condemnation of both the attack on the seat of Podemos and on all the seats referred to by the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party and all the others, because I believe it will be difficult to find a party in this House whose seats have not been attacked in recent times, painted, etc. It is therefore condemnable, as well as, without doubt, we condemn fascism and communism. I have no problem in condemning any of these issues; the problem is when you begin to define what everything is. And there we do have a problem, because for you it's fascist everyone who doesn't think like you. Of course, if everyone who doesn't think how you can be assaulted, it is you who are calling violence. Because you have justified the attack on those whom you have understood could be attacked, and you have done so as a party and you have done so as a government. That you do it as a party, wrong, but that the Government of Spain does it, I think it is worse than bad, and the Government of Spain has found it right and right to attack a party of Spain that is totally legal and, of course, with a very important representation. So, we're entering a dangerous area. And why do I say this? Because when there was an attack in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in Navarre or in many places in Spain and we went to the concentrations that followed, those who supported the terrorist attacks, those who supported the terrorist band ETA, shouted at us: You fascists, you are the terrorists! Well, what about that? Well, what happens is that that was the justification they had to say that we could be killed. That's where the problem lies. If you justify it, you point to a political party, you say you are what you are and you can attack them, you are the ones justifying violence and, therefore, you are entering a very dangerous terrain. [[Applauds]] Freedom must always be defended, and aggression must always be condemned. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u113	Your Honor, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u114	Thank you, President. PNL is right in pointing out hate speech that spreads not only some political spokesmen, but also some opinionators and media outlets such as the broth of culture caused by these attacks. I want to make it clear from the outset that we find the way in which certain opinionators and media caricature, distort and manipulate the work of United We can try to turn them into something like a public enemy. But we also want to add that we would never think of pointing out the political actions of the United Nations We can as those responsible for receiving these attacks. I say this because statements such as those made by Mr. Pablo Iglesias in his day, saying that the Catalan independenceists had helped to awaken the ghost of fascism, should never again be given, even if only by pure anti-fascist common sense. [[Applauds]] That fascism exists and acts is first and foremost the responsibility of the fascists themselves, but also of all those powers - before I referred to the media powers and to those who have rostrums, but also to the complicitys that are given in spaces such as the judiciary or police bodies - that allow or at least do not combat this impunity of fascism. How can it be explained, if not, for example, that those accused of assaulting the headquarters of Blanquerna, after seven years and of previous convictions, have again delayed their entry into prison? In the actions of the far right it is therefore possible to look for deeper explanations, such as the political role that some allow him to play as a repressive advance. In Catalonia we know this for the autumn of 2017 and 2019 and in the Valencia Country I have come to count on an own entry that exists on Wikipedia - and that I recommend you to visit - two hundred and forty actions of fascism since the 1970s until now.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u115	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u116	We, out of pure anti-fascist solidarity, will support this GNP. The best way fascism doesn't wake up is to destroy it from the root.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u117	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u118	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Altsasu, Sestao, Donostia, Bilbao, Barakaldo, Vic, Cartagena or Vallecas, places all attacked by the far right. Neighbors and neighbors frightened by fascists, sieges attacked by Francoists, police at their service, and anti-fascist people beaten, hospitalized, detained and criminalized. This and not another is the balance of the attacks that ultra-right, fascism, brings to our neighborhoods and our peoples to generate hatred and confrontation. This is the reality. Because the ultra-right systematically violates the fundamental freedoms and rights of social groups, whether migrants, feminists or LGBTI people, and has the best political allies in formations that promote and justify attacks on the integrity of people, as they do when they point out unaccompanied minors' centers, and then they are attacked; as they do when they point out LGBTI people, and aggressions happen; as they do when they point out migrant people, and they are despised, insulted and assaulted. Fascism, in any of its versions, points to and attacks all those who differ from their totalitarian ideas, and increasingly aggressively and, more worryingly, more impunity. The far right now has more speakers, more presence in institutions, in the media and in the streets, because it has someone who represents it, who is jealous of it, starting with this House. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, it is how fascism is built and strengthened. We know who these attacks are. They are the ones who daily fill the networks, parliaments and streets with homophobia, racism, machism and classism. Basically, they are those who exclude and point out to all people with ideas that differ from their own, that is, always against the most vulnerable and always at the service of the elites, because they are very brave with the helpless, but very cowardly with the powerful. That is why it is more important than ever to develop a democratic agenda that confronts them, and that is why I believe that the political parties have a clear challenge: to build a framework of discussion in which equality, solidarity and respect are once again central, a framework for the defence of rights that goes beyond, that is a framework for the advancement of rights, a path of real defence, that cannot be built without progress. I remind you of the following phrase attributed to Ortega and Gasset: Fascism derives its strength from something outside it: from the weakness of others; specifically from the weakness, decadence and inaction of others. Because in this state fascism or, if you prefer, its most chaste native version never disappeared, it was not even admonished or had a review or censorship of its course. In my country, Euskal Herria, the ultra-right practically has no place in our society or in our institutions, because Basque society, like the independent left, has always faced fascism in all its forms, in all fields and everywhere. We have been and are a people with anti-fascist memory and commitment, and fascism is not rejected from equidistance, nor is it allowed to beat Tubacex workers to the gates of the Basque Parliament and, simultaneously, to accompany ultra-rightists, such as those of Desokupa, putting them on the red carpet to facilitate their work. Mr. Esteban, do not confuse your political obsessions with the unity that our people demand and need to face and stop feet to the far right. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty of the anti-fascists, of whom we believe in democracy, is to continue to take increasingly far-reaching and deeper steps so that every day we can celebrate a new conquest of the rights and freedoms of the social and working majority. That's how we end their attacks and their hatred. Of course, we will support the bill that has been tabled. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u120	Good afternoon. We condemn the attack that took place at the headquarters of Podemos, of course, just as we condemn the attacks that have taken place at the headquarters of other political parties, at the headquarters of our own political party, at the homes of politicians. I want to make it clear, there is no justifiable violence, not just trying to find the origin or to find out if there are possible reasons; there is no justifiable violence. In this context, it is surprising that the non-law proposal points to something like the numerous violent acts carried out by the ultra-right in recent months. Well, the ones carried out by the ultra-right and the ones carried out by the ultra-left. In other words, we cannot distinguish between good violence and other bad violence. This is what strikes us from this non-law proposition. Of course we condemn violence, but we also give them a little thought. The so-called new policy, promoted by Podemos in its day, flagged today by VOX, perhaps this populism of verbal violence has degenerated into physical violence. We sincerely believe that politics is expressing an ideology; politics is debate; politics is respect for the adversary, who is not an enemy, is a political adversary. Therefore, when there are arguments there is no need to raise the voice, there is no need to despise anyone either. Its leader of Podemos said phrases like: I apologize for not breaking the face of all the faces I argue with on television. He said that it had to be normalized, in an advanced democracy, that anyone who has a public presence, who has responsibilities in a communication company or in politics is subject, both to criticism and insult on social networks. No, there is no need to encourage insult on social networks; nor is there any need to encourage insult within this House, as has also been done repeatedly. In this context, we urge them to reflect and bring politics to the debate, to the interaction of ideas and to respect - as I said - the adversary; to set an example in their case; they will always find us next to Podemos when they suffer these attacks; they will always find us any political party when they suffer these attacks. But we appeal to all political parties, and also to us, to set an example and to improve the political-public debate that is taking place in recent years. The famous new policy may not be as good a policy as some promised it would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u121	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u122	Thank you, President. Puem, Els Comuns told us that they came here to defend fundamental rights; what they did not tell us is that they came here to vehemently defend only the fundamental rights of some. ..the fascist attack they have suffered at their headquarters. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] In fact, I think the difference between you and us is that we never profile ourselves when there is a fascist performance, whoever the attacker is. Catalonia is the seven percent of the population, we are a national minority within the Kingdom of Spain who have been trampled on their rights for many years to defend our demands peacefully and democratically, and our demands are as legitimate as those of all of you. And in spite of that, Mr Asens, you have bought on too many occasions the hate speech against us, which has spread to those whom you condemn today. We have been called Nazis to put ballot boxes, insulted, beaten and judged to use them. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Every day we suffer fascist attacks because we are who we are and because we defend what we defend, and this fascism, Mr Asens, has the protection of the Spanish institutions to which you also represent today. Do not say or write that they defend fundamental rights; do so, defend us. And we know that it is not easy, because we do it every day and we know, despite the hardness, that it is worth defending them, so some of us have not lowered our heads. And I'm done, President. Facilitate, Mr. Asens, to act as a progressive government. It is not only worth saying that they are, they must behave as such. We do not ask them to help us; our demands are already defended by us. What we are asking you to do is to exercise at once the executive power that you have, because you are in the government, unless you have deceived us and the symbolic policy that Mr Sánchez was talking about the other day is what you are doing from this symbolic progressive government, together with all those who support you. Released political prisoners and exiles. Dream Catalonia free and all the assailant to Congressman Nuet's company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, remain silent, please, there is a constant murmur.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out a previous point which I believe is relevant to the subject at hand. Today in the metro of Madrid you can see VOX posters criminalizing a collective, specifically the MENA, foreign-minor minors, foreign minors - unaccompanied; minors. I just want to say one thing, first, that I am very proud to be from a country, Catalonia, which welcomes a lot of unaccompanied foreign minors, and then what we want more, even more solidarity, we want more unaccompanied foreign minors and above all we want less subsidized racists. [[Applauds]] Freedom. These days there is an interesting debate about freedom; in fact, there are very important parties that go to an election with the possibility of winning, for a long time, with a slogan: communism or freedom; a slogan that would be quite friki ten, fifteen years ago, and with which today they can win in an autonomous community as important as that of Madrid. But what is freedom? Really, what is freedom? It is a very powerful concept in politics, but it is also a highly distorted concept in politics. Is freedom, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to do what you want to do, or is freedom to be what you want to be? Can you be free - calm - without having a place to sleep? Can you be free without anything to wear? Can you be free without having to eat? Can anyone be free if his only concern of the day is to know what time he has to get to the queue of unemployment, or worse yet, to the queue of a social dining room? Is that person free? Does that person really have time to think, for example, about politics? [[protests]] Nowadays at almost any airport you can take a plane and go around the world. Is that freedom? It might look like it. Today anyone can choose between 150 series of four or five audiovisual platforms. Is that freedom? It might look like it. But what good is it to me, what good is it to us to take a plane to any airport in the world and turn around the world if I can't afford the ticket? What good is the freedom to choose between 150 series if then I don't have to pay for the light? What's the point? Can you be free without being well informed? How is it possible that there are people from Usera or Bellvitge who are sounding good what Ayuso or Abascal say? How is it possible that there are so many working-class people who are more annoyed than people like Paul Iglesias are covered by the salary legally provided for by the law for their public office, and that instead they do not know that there is a king fleeing in a tyranny with hundreds of millions of euros hidden in tax havens? How is that possible? [[Applauds]] The answer is that there are huge media machines against, because journalism is not to say that there is one saying that the earth is flat and that there is another saying that it is not, journalism is to say that the first lies, and that does not happen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u125	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u126	It's over, Mr. President. As we speak, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, with all affection and affection, of democratic values, let us also speak of political prisoners, of them leaving and of a referendum of self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u127	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX not only condemns violence, VOX was born to fight it when many others were silent. [[The lady]] It was born to face fear, to open spaces of freedom where thousands of Spaniards felt abandoned by complicit silence, to be a dyke of restraint against a threat, which you represent in Podemos, because you have brought degradation to Spanish political life. You and your predecessor ZP have only brought hatred, resentment, division and confrontation between the Spaniards, and your only proposals, as good communists, are to make everyone's lives worse to improve only their own. [[Applauds]] Communist ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we are better than you. It is not a way of speaking, it is true that we always defend truth, goodness and beauty, and will always prevail over their lie, their wickedness and their ugliness, always. But I do not mean that, I do not even mean that this is the most qualified parliamentary group in this House and yours is one of the most ignorant and unprofessional, when I say that we are better than you I refer to the essence of what we represent. [[applause]] VOX founded it, among others, José Antonio Ortega Lara, the personified goodness, the good, and that marks. We can, on the contrary, be encouraged by those who collaborated with a dictatorship accused of crimes against humanity, which for years financed its activities in Spain. His party was also financed and promoted by a regime of fundamentalist and anti-Western Ayatollahs. You were walking through the herriko taverns to laugh at what they called the 1978 paper, and today you presume to have taken ETA's heirs to state leadership. Dictators, radical Islamists and terrorists, evil. That is why you today represent the greatest threat to democracy, to the peaceful coexistence of the Spaniards. The poison of violence takes you inside. [[Applauds]] The presence of VOX has simply served to make you come out of the skin and suppurate by the wound of hatred that defines and torments you. Hate, said Lenin, that sinister spectrum applauded by his secretary general, Enrique Santiago, is the main ingredient of revolutionary action. That's why Pablo Iglesias can't help but get excited when he sees police assaults. That's why Echenique shows her support for the violent when the windows burst in the Sun Gate. That is why his secretary of organization is already being tried before the Supreme Court for assault. That is why his spokesman in the Madrid Assembly is convicted of crime against authority and injuries. Here there is only one systematically attacked party, VOX, and one that encourages attacks, Podemos, and a disgusting equidistance, yes, of some politicians, of some journalists who embarrass others. [[Applauds]] Silences and complicit distances that remind us of what happened not so long ago in the Basque Country. A few days ago, not many, we held an election event in Vallecas. There were stones, bottles, sticks, insults, assaults, thirty-five wounded, twenty-one injured police officers and the feeling that something else could have happened that day in Vallecas. Some executed it; others, very specifically Minister Marlaska, allowed it, by letting a caterva of violent people be located just a few meters from the attendees without a safe distance. And you, the same ones who bring this cynical PNL here today, encouraged and justified it, coming out in defense of the aggressors and applauding the violence. Moreover, from the alert calling for violence against VOX by Pablo Iglesias, after our success in the Andalusian elections, we have counted more than two hundred acts of violence, attacks on our headquarters, stones, robberies, bottles, direct attacks on our volunteers and our candidates throughout Spain, in all the campaigns. But lose all hope, because the eleven-year-old Galician boy to whom his teacher snatched a VOX disease did not give in. Amaya Martinez was not affected by her cordon sanitaire. Alberto Terradas did not release the flag or look down at Valtonyc's threat of aggression. Jorge Buxadé didn't shake his pulse in the slap they made him in Barcelona. Macarena Olona did not blink when she looked into the eyes of the etarras in the courts. Rocío Monastery was not scared in Vallecas. Meer's dew didn't cry in Sestao. Ignacio Garriga and Javier Ortega Smith did not leave Vic until they concluded their act. Santiago Abascal Escuza never closed his trade. Our deputies victims of ETA, Teresa López, Antonio Salvá and José Alcaraz, did not allow hatred to destroy their lives. General Asarta did not yield to the position in the battle of Nayaf. Santiago Abascal Conde collected his act of councilman in Llodio, despite the mob who intended to lynch him and finished his career even though he had to be escorted to college...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u129	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u130	...and Ortega Lara survived Bolinaga. So, gentlemen of Podemos, you will never scare us in the Congress of Deputies, ever, because this is Spain and to defend it from you only VOX remains. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo, bravo!-A Member: Viva España!-Various Members: Viva!-Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u131	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zamarrón Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are acts of violence that violate fundamental rights before us. The proposal can only call for our adherence to confront them with resurgence and repress them with all the resources that the law allows. That is what the Minister of Equality said, and it was a parliamentary proposal that was joined by multiple groups. Can you do more? Yeah. The declaration of the French National Assembly pointed out the rights of man and of the citizen as syllables of the common law, rights recognizable in the very nature of man, proper to human dignity, rights of a second nature which we by consensus grant ourselves by becoming citizens. The rule that establishes them and defines the political and social structures for their development and maintenance is our Constitution. Violence is typical of fascism and other aberrations of the mind that are not unknown to us, it is the violence of populisms. Populism is arrogating itself against every right to impose from an articulated minority as a subversive political movement the ideas and designs of a faction, in contempt of all that its ideal does not protect and of all those who do not share it. Its operational action is violence, violence against the common law that is neglected and wants to be destroyed, violence with the institutions of the heritage nation using them, violence with people, if necessary, annihilating them, no matter, friends and enemies. Is there a danger? Recently, an exemplary Western democracy has seen its sovereign assemblies stagger. On our continent we are, in our European community we are, and among ourselves? An evil group of former army chiefs and officers spread species in networks to burn converts that motivated the prosecution's investigation into whether their content was contrary to the constitutional order, where even the murder of red-headed people was ventured. They claimed they were yours. I'm not arguing. Allow me a childish hope: if you are one of your own, you are not exclusively one of them. I am not at the side of those centurions, oropel and leafy that the wind drags to the rot of history; I am with the Armed Forces of Democracy, to which we owe so much today, with the law enforcement forces to whom I greet with respect every day at the entrance of Congress, which guarantee our order and our freedom. The firm response to intolerance is required, but we need to strengthen ourselves as a nation and as a citizen. It should be everyone's commitment. It does not contribute to permanent disqualification, variations on a monocorde theme: go, Mr González!, and its versions. In front of it, with Leon Felipe, nobody's leaving here! We must all make ourselves necessary. They strive day by day to show that they are not. Well, they're not; honestly, they're expected. How to strengthen ourselves in the face of populism? It is before our eyes: with fair and equitable laws and good government, there represented by Dona María de Molina and, in the blue bank, by a joint government in which, together with the head of the Government, four vice-presidents are located. [[pointing out the picture to the left of the Presidency: The oath of the first deputies of the Courts of Cadiz]] [[pointing to the picture on the right of the Presidency: Dona María de Molina presenting her son to the Courts of Valladolid]] Laws that must be guided by an ethical conviction that it is up to us to unravel, defend and implement. We must strengthen our dual nature of men and citizens. The Minister of Health said she understood health and education as selective ways of distributing wealth. It is our conviction; vertebrate health in a national health service and, next to it, the means that ensure a welfare state to achieve, from well-being, the neologism of Emilio Lledó, well-being. And a different speech that takes precedence over the merely instructive nature of the risk of utilitarian instrumentalization, a formative purpose. And yes, we pay and we pay the debts. We will definitely bring to light the remains of those who, with the conviction of Socrates, sacrificed their lives in the defence of the legitimate democratic order. We will fight for him to be afraid of our children, free from deprivation and violence and all manipulation. We will make the necessary efforts so that our youth can live, perceive a just correlation of well-being and possibilities for the future, so that those who did not have to go back will return. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Madam President, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Zamarron. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asens, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u134	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u135	It will therefore be voted on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u136	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the plans of the Government for the use of land and facilities currently out of use corresponding to its function and, in particular, the La Remonta farm in Santander. [[Mr. Mazón Ramos]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u137	Good night. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we presented a general inquiry into the facilities of the Ministry of Defence in disuse throughout Spain and the particular case of the La Remonta farm, located in Cantabria, in particular in the municipality of Santander. The truth is that the minister did not say much about the general and said little about the particular. He only said that the legal framework had to be respected, which was obvious, and that the decree on the status of the Invied, which was the institute of defense housing, was to be followed, which I believe was not entirely correct. I understand that, moreover, the minister was in a hurry because she had to go on a journey and preferred to go to the point and go directly to the subject of La Remonta, although I cannot help but say that we would have liked to have heard her speak in general to know something about how the ministry's plans for the decommissioning of all these facilities are going. Anyway, it will be again. For what we did benefit from his intervention was to know that the Ministry of Defence had already made an offer to the City of Santander with a series of clauses, that in September had already had discussions with the councilman responsible for Urbanism and that in February he had already sent a proposal-drinker in writing, which was unknown to me I think practically even for his own government partners. This shows that there is not much transparency in that team. It was useful for us all to know the subject, and the truth is that that proposal had some interesting aspect because it raises things of pure logic, such as the extension of an agreement that was already expired and that was not in force. What he had, above all, was a very continuous aspect of the convention that had been done in 2007 with the city council. I would just like to remind you - and of course you do not know this - that an agreement was made in 2007 to build 1300 houses on this farm, that there were going to be a lot of exploitation going on between the government - which would make protective houses - and the ministry and the city hall. But then the partial plan that developed it ended up falling because Santander's overall urban management plan was overturned by the courts. So, it all fell. But in that agreement which they proposed, in that draft, the truth is that there were a number of very mercantilist clauses, I think as a continuation of that primitive agreement in which they were going to build and sell houses, but it might be worth starting a new negotiation, which was unknown. We understand that the ministry wants to unlock different issues, because it has hundreds in all of Spain pending and what interests it is to go unlocking, closing matters and not cases like this, which are passing the years and have not just been executed. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria has also tabled motions in the Santander City Hall itself and in Parliament to see if it is unlocked. In fact, the subject of the La Remonta estate was already on our electoral agenda in the municipal elections. But, as you can see, this came to the city hall, the councilman of Urbanism doesn't know if he didn't know what to do with it or was hiding it and with that lack of transparency no progress is made at all. Our proposal captures part of what the ministry offered, because it was interesting. It recognized that an extension was necessary and proposed an extension of five years, which we think is very good because it also gives time to negotiate the convention. That is how we put it in this motion. Another interesting aspect is that there had been a partial divestment since 2015 of about one third of the farm, about 95 000 metres over 285 000. In this proposal, the object of the agreement was extended to the totality of this estate, which is a splendid estate that I hope one day we can all enjoy and that you can take a walk around it so that it will remind you of what we are talking about in this house. We too in this proposal, in this motion, want to make clear the new purpose, because we abandon the objective of building houses and we want that to become a big park, a big green area and have a strictly public character. And here I mean that the city council is not going to get any profit, it's not going to get any profits, it's not going to sell anything, the only thing it's going to have is expenses to give citizens a service. Therefore, it cannot be treated in the same way as it was at the time or as it can be treated elsewhere in Spain. You can even maintain the status of public domain and you don't have to go to the Ministry's Housing and Infrastructure Institute, which in the end is buying and selling and obtaining resources. Of course, the ministry needs resources, but it is also of course that it obtains those that are necessary, to a large extent, from the State budget. With regard to the amendments tabled, the Socialist Party has tabled one amendment and the other the People's Party. The People's Party again insists on something that means wasting the time that is the free handover, so that can't even be mentioned right now after hearing the minister. The Socialist Party somewhat corrects the proposal of the Ministry of Defence and we are going to try to reach a compromise. We are looking forward to being constructive, realistic and, of course, defending Cantabria's interests. The point is that the Regionalist Party, the PRC, is not in the government of Santander City Hall, is not in the government of the state, as everyone knows, and we think that this inquiry is good for us to put the batteries on, so that we do not continue to run out of time and to put an end to this situation of abandonment in which the...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u138	Mr. Mazón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u139	...most of La Remonta's estate and it can be useful for all today's and future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, Mr Uriarte Torrealday intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u141	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are raising a question concerning the transfer of La Remonta farm in Cantabria, and in this matter, as in all cases in general, I believe that we should flee from short-term approaches and from issues of interest to some, and we should look for the constitutional mandates that we must address in order to raise this issue. Article 128 of the Constitution states that all forms of wealth, both public and private, are subject and subordinated to the general interest, and that is what we must attend to. What is the best way to meet the general interest in the management of this magnificent estate? As the Cantabria City Council is probably of special interest, so has the Ministry of Defence, which is prepared for the assignment and has made this assignment, which now has to be renewed in some way, and both have been concerned to find a use for that property that would be in keeping with the general interest and the desire for leisure, after the failure of the attempt of the general plan, which was annulled by the courts, which will be dedicated to the leisure farm. This is a magnificent estate. I like the proposal made by the Government, the Ministry of Defence, more than the proposal made by the PRC to the extent that it sets out who the holder is and seeks a definitive solution and not simply an extension of the current session. It also allows in an absolutely simple way for the municipality itself that due to the amount of a justification for a non-urban land can be done with ownership definitively and dedicate it to what is appropriate. In any case, as a regular agreement is better than a disagreement, we are going to support the transaction and we are going to seek a consensual exit in this matter. What I would like to remember, a little in line with what we have been dealing with in this matter, is that it is not only or should be a place of leisure for the citizens of Cantabria. That farm has life, it has a lot of life, it has wonderful life in all its corners. As with all those lands that are near ponds and wetlands, in any ravine or in any bush they find their protection these animals that we said should not be abused, that should be protected, that are not as arrogant or pretentious as this human animal is and that are able to live and reproduce in a small bush. That's where they lay their eggs, ducks, porrons, jars, hedgehogs and so many animals that live in that space and that must be protected. Therefore, when we extend the 90,000 meters to the 280 000 meters - which will probably be done - please let us attend to all those wonderful forms of life that live there with us and not think exclusively of our leisure. I take this opportunity to link it with what has been raised and with all that hatred that has been shown to those who want to protect animals against animal abuse and, in particular, that exacerbated hatred that has been shown to the wolf and to the people who defend it, such as Juancho López de Uralde, against whom they have expressly addressed themselves. I want to tell you that if you do not want to love the great European predator along with the lynx, if the hatred that corrodes you does not allow you to do so, you do not need to join - you have said that you are never going to join - the consensus progress. There is no need for them to join the consensus to make progress or to land in the twenty-first century or to follow science. No need, we do not intend all that, but at least go to the origins of the traditions that you claim, go to the best of those traditions and go to a town in Italy called Assisi, where a lord who was born there, who was called Francis, who at one time of his life decided to take off all his elegant clothes to approach nature and call the wolf brother wolf, the moon sister moon and the sun brother sun. Say, please, with me werewolf brother and you'll see how you learn to hate less. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u142	Thank you, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u143	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if in all of Spain, but in Cantabria, of course, we already know that Miguel Ángel Revilla's party likes to make the circus much more than to distribute bread, because the motion brought here today by the PRC deputy is nothing more than a staging. Moreover, today we have become clear that its regionalism is more of a name than a fact. It is passing the port of the Shield and this regionalism becomes a servility to the Government of Sánchez. [[Applauds]] What a pity, what a pity, Mr. Mazón! I would like to begin by inviting all your gentlemen to go to Santander and get to know this great green space, this 285,000 square meters, which is the great lung of Santander, in which, thanks to the efforts of the governments of the People's Party, the national government of Mariano Rajoy and the government of Íñigo de la Serna at the head of the city of Santander, today you can all enjoy 90,000 square meters for walking, skating, sports or cycling. That third of the hectares, owned by the Ministry of Defence, have been won to the city thanks to the management of the government teams of the People's Party, as well as the remodeled stretch of the maritime front, as well as Las Llamas, as well as the spikes that allow to stabilize our beaches, as well as so many spaces that make Santander today a reference not only tourist, but also environmental, cultural and quality of life. But these spaces, these services, don't everyone enjoy them. I'll give you an example. The Socialist Member for Cantabria, Pedro Casares, enjoys nothing and I feel sorry for him. And it does not enjoy them because every innovation, every enlargement, every improvement that makes all Spain admires Santander carries the signature of the People's Party, because in the forty years of democracy in Santander there have only been mayors - and the current mayor - of the People's Party and being socialist mayor of Santander is something that has dreamed and tried to be several times already without achieving it. I would say that frustration is a bad counselor and is leading the socialist representatives of Cantabria to accept that the Saint-Andreinians pay a price for a land that should not have it. I know that any dialectics about land use can be complex, but this one isn't. The People's Party wants the entire area of the La Remonta estate to be publicly used free of charge for the city, and the Socialist Party wants Santander to pay the Ministry of Defense for La Remonta's land at the price of urbanizable land if it wants to keep it at the disposal of the neighbors. What we are saying is that if it is not legally possible for the transfer to be made free of charge, then those agreements that are less burdensome for the Saint-Andreinians should be studied. Easy to explain and easy to understand. The People's Party has been fighting for many years to get that big park, that Standerin Retreat to close an urban gap and connect visually and physically through a green corridor two densely populated areas. And don't be surprised that it seems like a circus number that Mr. Mazón is bringing us here today a document that is nothing more than a possible addition to the 2015 concession. Nor is it surprising that we find the regionalist and socialist traps to be outrageous for the benefit of the accounts of a government such as Pedro Sánchez, who wants to take out the cantabres. Speak clear. You want to cash in La Remonta, or get paid by the Santanderinos, or by selling those lands and denying yourself that big public park. Because that's what the play we're seeing here today is about, and it's no different than the tithe of the stamp. Here the minister spoke a week ago of the generosity of this government and of deferring the concession to the entire extent of the land for five more years; and, while she was talking, she tried to make us not realize that in the small letter she said that, if an agreement is not reached, the City of Santander will have to expropriate those lands and pay them as urban land, when, ladies and gentlemen, the classification of the La Remonta soil today is of unscheduled urbanizable soil, that is, a rustic soil for valuation purposes if it is to expropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, the same government that is helping all the institutions, the one that is destroying even with private property, today tells Santander and the Saints that there is an insurmountable obstacle to Defence giving them this land. But, look, what can't be done by the Saint-Andreis seems to be done by this government in other territories. Demanial assignments can and have been made for symbolically long time, such as the University Hospital of Melilla or Loyola Quartering. Therefore, it can be done, if you like, in Santander, and in the People's Party, unlike you, Mr. Mazón, we will not surrender. We'll keep asking for that free assignment. We will continue to work for Santander's interests. Let's not get fooled by these motions asking to claim Santander City Hall or making recommendations to it. The City Hall of Santander is today in the best hands, has the best mayoress that citizens can have and will not allow you nor the government of Sánchez to give her cat for hare. Finished.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u144	Mr. Movellan, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u145	I'm done. One minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u146	No, I'm not giving him a minute. [[Rumors]] One sentence. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u147	I conclude by asking the one who is going to happen to me in the use of the word to leave frustration behind, because it can also be useful in the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u149	President, thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. They are going to allow me not to let go of this opportunity, which the Member of the People's Parliamentary Group has let go of, before I begin my speech, to condemn these fascist attacks which incite hatred on the part of VOX here in the Community of Madrid. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they will not pass and the Socialist Party will be a dynamite of restraint against its policies against minors and foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pride to defend our proposals in this forum of Congress, but it is even more so when we talk about our land, Cantabria, or our city, Santander. I would like to begin with a reflection on the need for policy to be useful in providing solutions and generating greater quotas for progress and well-being. It is certainly, ladies and gentlemen, the most important task we have for the three hundred and fifty Members of this House, and it is also the easiest way to dignify it and to give value to politics. I say this because every time we talk about Cantabria, some Members take advantage of it to always make a fuss and noise. We checked it again today. Mr Movellán, I will be famous for defending the interests of our land and of the Government of Spain and for working for the Spanish, but you are already sadly famous for being the deputy who said that the Women of Podemos climb to a collection. That's a shame for the men and women of our land, Mr. Movellan. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to try to put aside his noise and his permanent sham, because today we talk about something very important for our land, for Cantabria, we talk about a project like La Remonta, which wants to be a great green space and equipacional for the use of all the men and women of Santander and Cantabria. This great space will be what Santanderians and the municipal groups of Santander agree, because they have much to say about the future of the nearly 300,000 hectares that are in our city. It is a goal and a commitment on which the Government of Pedro Sánchez has already been working and on which Minister Margarita Robles has already expressed all the goodwill of the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Defence last week in this plenary session. I want to thank the minister on behalf of many of Santander's neighbors and neighbors, who have been watching for years how a space that could serve everyone's enjoyment is underutilized and untapped. I am one of those who think that only from loyalty and institutional collaboration can we work for a better future for Santander. In the face of the permanent anger of the People's Party and Mayor Gema Igual, the permanent collaboration of the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen. And in this is the Ministry of Defense, working to agree on a future project for La Remonta. He has proposed an extension of the five-year concession for all the land and has called for us to talk, dialogue and reach agreement in this period of time. It is a proposal that no longer affects only a part of La Remonta but the whole farm so that all Saint-Andreinos can begin to enjoy that great public space. The position of the PSOE is clear, we want you to bet to turn this space into a large green lung and with public endowments, such as sports facilities, that is done listening to the Saint-Andreinians and reaching an agreement with all the administrations. Therefore, yes, agreement, agreement and agreement, with which we would all win. I believe that this is the right line and I am sure that we will reach an agreement through the compromise amendment with the Regionalist Party of Cantabria. I would like to conclude by stressing not only the importance of reaching agreements, Mr Movellán, but also of complying with the word given, as President Pedro Sánchez is doing with the arrival of Enaire in Santander, with the rehabilitation of the Palace of Cortiguera or with the demolition of the harbour ships to advance on the maritime front. And you know why we do all this? Because we govern by thinking of the whole of the Spaniards, of the cantabres and of the Saint-Anderinos, and we say the same in the government that in the opposition, not like you, to those who give everything and are always in the 'worst, better'. It is so indecent all that these days have even come to criticize the thousands of Madridns and Madridns who suffer poverty and inequality and who come to the queues of hunger. Now that you're talking so much about freedom, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, you don't choose to be poor, but we will work from public institutions to fight it...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u150	Mr. Casares, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u151	...and we'll do it in spite of you, too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u152	Thank you, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u153	Thank you, President. Mr. Mazón, we are very pleased that you are joining a negotiation with the Ministry of Defense that is running Citizens, my party, in the City Hall of Santander, which you seem to be unaware of or at least have not mentioned, because the City Council of the City Hall of Santander is headed by a fellow citizen. I can assure you that the negotiations between the City of Santander and the Ministry of Defence are progressing well, and that what the Minister has said is well said, they are progressing and it is true that, like any negotiations that deal with historical assets of the Ministry of Defence, they take their time because there are many legal and non-legal formulas as well as urban solutions that are necessary to reach the end of a good agreement. I'm sure there's going to be a good deal between Santander City Hall and the Ministry of Defense. I am convinced and, moreover, I think it would be good for the City Council of Santander, which is the best way to say that it will be good for all So thank you so much for your encouragement and for your discomfort in this matter, but let me know that we are already working on this. The reality is that your motion, Mr. Mazón, was not a general issue. You came here to put this issue in the debate in the Chamber of the Congress of Deputies when you know perfectly well that this is being discussed and negotiated. But, of course, you don't rule at Santander City Hall. And you demand transparency, but transparency, Mr Mazón, is when the agreements are concluded, not when they are being negotiated, and forgive you, because you in the Cantabria Government have no transparency in the negotiations you are conducting with the Government on other things; you say that when they are completed, as it should be, on the other hand. However, I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that in your amendment you come to claim the free handover, when the Santander City Council is not in this. You don't seem to talk to the mayor of Santander!No, you don't seem to talk, because at no point on the part of Santander City Hall is talking about this, which, on the other hand, has the whole meaning of the world. Moreover, I would say that it has a sense of state, because you know the situation in which the Ministry of Defence is located and you know the urgent and urgent need of the Ministry of Defence to put its assets into circulation and value. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, in the City Hall of Madrid, where, by the way, also Citizens - what a coincidence - carries the City Council, we are ending and closing the agreement of all the assets that the Ministry of Defense has in Camp. This began to dismantle in 1983, which is when I did the militia in Campo, and, look, it is closing now; and it is closing now thanks to the negotiation of the City Council of Madrid, the PP and Citizens, its Council of Urbanism, and at no time is it considering that this will be done free of charge. The municipalities want and need these spaces, and the municipalities have to reach agreements with the Ministry of Defence to pay the fair for it, because, if not, decapitalize we would decapitalize all the assets of the Ministry of Defence. And you, who are statesmen, know this perfectly well. Therefore, I am very drawn to your amendment, not because of the nonsense of asking for a free assignment, but because not even the City Council of Santander is talking and working on this. So, Mr. Mazón, I encourage you, as in the case of the City of Madrid or the City of Santander, to make yourself available, of course, that you will, of course, of the City Councilor of the City of Santander, that you will be pleased to inform you about how these negotiations are going, but that you understand that this will be closed for good because there is the will of the City of Santander, of the City Councilor of the City of Santander and of the Ministry of Defense in which it is done, because it is good for everyone: good for the ministry, good for Santander and good for the Santanderians. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u155	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, my group will in principle vote in favour of the motion as long as the subject of expropriation is not taken up in the compromise. We understand that this space should be used by the citizens of Santander, but the subject of expropriation, as I will explain later, is not even legally feasible. Having said that, I wanted to comment on two things that have surprised me. First of all, this motion comes as a result of an urgent - and I repeat, urgent - inquiry by Mr Mazón on behalf of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, and we are surprised by this urgency because this is not an issue that concerns the Cantabrians or the Sandanders right now; nobody talks about this subject in Santander. What really concerns the cantabres right now is the drift that Mr Revilla's socialist regional government is taking with the mismanagement that it is doing with the pandemic. The other day he was overwhelmed by the hoteliers - he has again closed the hotel shop -, who have already taken this from him who are putting the bars and restaurants of Santander ; he has all the suppliers, the transporters, the whole Cantabria on war ground. [[shows a poster]] He only promises to install industries and has not installed any; moreover, the only one to be installed has gone to another autonomous community because there was no acceleration of the administrative file, which was paralyzed. Therefore, one can think that all this is to get a headline in the local press and sell that something is being done well by the Regionalist Party at this time, as I say, of the political and social crisis that this party is experiencing. And he said that I was surprised by two things, one was that, the urgency, on a matter that is totally lacking in urgency, and the other what the minister told us the other day. The minister - surely it has not been her; they have prepared it- said something that contradicted, because on the one hand she commented that it was the Royal Decree 1080/2017, which regulates the statute of the Institute of Housing, Infrastructure and Defence Equipment, and we were all talking about the application of this royal decree for the possible transfer, so to speak, of the possession of this good. Of course, then we have realized that it is a public domain property that continues to affect the Ministry of Defence, which has not been disaffected to pass it to that institute. If you look at article 71 of Law 50/1998, which was commonly referred to as accompanying the 1999 budgets, which is the article that empowers this Royal Decree 1080/2017, you will see that it is expressly said that this institute will be passed the goods that the Minister of Defence disabling for this agency to dispose of them. Hence, the free assignment of that good once disaffected does not fit, because when it passes to that institute the operation has to be onerous. Well, that didn't happen. It has not been disaffected, it continues to affect the Ministry of Defence and is therefore a public property, and as such it is inalienable, imprescriptible and unimpeded and therefore forced expropriation is not possible. But not only is forced expropriation not possible, but in fact the ministry has done what it has done is an administrative concession, because that is what proceeds with a public good. We would be more in favour of a demanial mutation between public administrations, which is provided for in article 71.4 of Law 33/2003 on the Heritage of Public Administrations, which becomes a usufruct in civil law. The State Administration retains ownership and the powers of the government would be exercised by the City Council of Santander. We understand that it would be the best figure because the most advanced doctrine since Law 33/2003 understands that in the matter of relations between public administrations, rather than concessions, it is the manial mutations that come about. In any case, the law that takes place in article 76 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u156	Mr. Del Valle, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u157	... provides for the reservation of ownership in favour of the State. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón, I understand you're preparing a transactional. As soon as they have it, we'll thank them for sending it to us. We vote in three minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. I remind you that no photographs can be taken in the Chamber. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress of the Staff Regime of the National Prison Institutions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; 38 plus 119 telematics votes, 157; 67 plus 124 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u160	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING THE CIVIL CODE, THE HYPOTECARY LAW AND THE CIVIL JUSTICE LAW, ON THE LEGAL REGIME OF ANIMALS. [[File number 122/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u161	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; 104 plus 191 telematics votes, 295; against 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-20-CD210420.u162	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
