ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the debate on the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor, first of all, in the position-setting round, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-Common Podemos-Galicia, which will accumulate its time of reply in this round.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u2	Thank you. President, ladies and gentlemen, a preview. I would like to begin by thanking a person who should be here today and who is not here and who has returned to his place of work as an industrial worker - he has not gone to Iberdrola or Natural Gas - because his deputy's record has been revoked, not his convictions, not his dignity. Thank you, Alberto, for all these years of work and commitment. [[Applauds]] These budgets are also yours. That your seat is empty in this debate is a democratic anomaly. This is not the first time a Member's rights have been violated, but it is the first time that a Member's record has been removed for just a fine of EUR 540. [[Rumors]] This Congress - its autonomy- is more unprotected. Today is Alberto, tomorrow can be anyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that is not going to happen to you, because you have three hundred accused or convicted of corruption whom we are not going to see lose your Minutes as a Member. Yesterday you were a little disoriented. To Mr. Married, who reproaches the president yesterday not to listen to him and today is not here to listen to the rest, we saw him yesterday a little dislocated, and so we have seen him since the national convention, that parade of accused and convicted for corruption that looked like a remake of the parade of the wedding of Aznar's daughter. And it is no less, because you have remained alone in Europe. The post-pandemic consensus has overtaken them. Mr. Married yesterday spoke of Peronist Keynesianism. What Mr Casado calls Peronist Keynesianism is called in Europe the salvation of public services, with European funds, by the way, which you have tried to boycott in Brussels. What Casado called waste is called expansive budgets in Europe Do you know what the real waste is? The one about your headquarters reforms paid for with black money. That's a waste of money. How dare you, with your service sheet, give lessons - today and yesterday - on accounting? You have been convicted of accounting B, you have more than three hundred accused or convicted of corruption, you have been classified as a criminal organization and last week you were convicted for a third time for irregular financing. No lesson from you. You in this crisis had two options, trying to hoist your shoulder or trying to sink the country, which is what you have tried to do. We expected a little more from you, because you have been government parties. The founder of his Francoist party and minister, Mr Fraga Iribarne, had a sense of responsibility and sense of state when he and so many other Francoists, who later founded his party, embraced democracy. You're going in the opposite direction, you're breaking the rules of the democratic game. They speak of an illegitimate government, they have embraced the far right and they have come out of the Constitution and history. You're the real anti-system party. Yesterday you came here to tell us that these budgets were the ruin of the country, when it was you who brought the country to ruin and that is why we were in worse condition to face this crisis. Precisely, what we need is to go in the opposite direction. With you there were privatizations, redundancies or mass evictions, wage devaluation and precariousness, corruption and democratic degradation, all due to your budgets of cuts and austerity. Pensions are now protected and medium and small businesses are banned, supply cuts are banned, there is a social shield, the ERTE, the economy is growing, unemployment is falling. Today in Spain more people work than before the pandemic and that when you were ruling. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is historic responsibility, it is a sense of state. Budgets are an important political moment, where a course is set and priorities set, but when a crisis emerges, the most serious of the last century, they acquire a special dimension. As Juan Rulfo said, either we save ourselves together or we sink separately. It is clear that if we had made these budgets alone they would be other budgets, just as if only the comrades of the Socialist Party had made them. But that's what politics is about, reaching agreements between different people. With the PSOE we disagree on important issues, we are different, it is not the same Nadia Calviño as Yolanda Díaz, but these budgets are the best example that the coalition is in full form, that we agree on the fundamentals, that we have to move forward, and that is, as I say, politics. If we wait to agree on everything to move forward, no progress is made. I am sorry that there are parties that are out of politics, that give up doing politics. Junts per Catalunya, for example, came to this debate yesterday to gesticulate with a grandiose rhetoric that is incompatible, inconsistent with what they do in Catalonia. To begin with, Counsellor Giró is doing his numbers with all the money that will come to Catalonia from these budgets, because he knows that the budgets in Catalonia are not viable without these budgets. Mrs Nogueras, it is inconsistent what you said, as it is inconsistent that you reproach us for what vote with VOX, when you are going to vote today the same amendment as the People's Party, that Citizens and that VOX. It is also inconsistent that you try to give us radical lessons, to us, to Esquerra or Bildu, when you are the heir party of Convergence i Unió. On the other hand, I want to thank those like BNG, PNV, Compromís, More Country or Teruel.There are those who have chosen to move forward, who are willing to do politics, to negotiate without giving blank cheques, but with good will. I would also like to thank the Abertzale Left and the Republican Left, who are independent but have more sense of state than those who wave flags from the right-wing bench. Eskerrik asko also to Bildu's companions and companions for your courage in recognizing the pain of the victims of ETA. Many thanks, companies and companies from Esquerra Republicana, thank you for acting responsibly, in line with the Republican Fraternity Legacy of Companies. We'll try to be up to speed in Catalonia too, don't hesitate. Because we need a historic commitment to stop the extreme right, and the extreme right is won not only by anti-fascist fronts, it is won by governing, expanding rights, approving budgets like these, because these budgets give us more freedom, they are the real health cordon against VOX. That is why I also wanted to thank those who have made these budgets possible, especially Maria Jesús Montero. We are aware that without their perseverance and without this coalition these budgets would not have gone ahead. Thank you very much and, above all, very much for the insults you received yesterday. [[Applauds]] First, witches and then assholes. What's next?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u5	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u6	Ione Belarra and Yolanda Díaz wanted to tell them they're marking the way for us. We are proud and proud of you, because thanks to you we have the first state housing law that will regulate rental prices, as well as the repeal of labor reform, which will accompany this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u7	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u8	Finally, many thanks to social movements, trade unions and organised civil society. Don't leave us alone, don't go home. Be demanding and mark our way. You are our compass, the greatest guarantee to advance and build a more just and equal society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u10	Good morning. Do you know the song Dad, tell me again? It's a song I listened to as a preteen in which Ismael Serrano blamed the previous generation for not knowing what the epic story was left in. Today I want to talk about what is not epic but transformation. I want to talk to you about how we put an end to the policies of austereicide, against which we went to the streets and squares a decade ago. Austerity is eliminated by moving backwards and strengthening public services: replacement rates of 110% for general civil servants and 120% for essential civil servants. Austerity left people unprotected, unprotected, women and families at the mercy of wear and hyper-insecure workers - that, if there were any luck -. The opposite is to double the investment in dependency, increasing another EUR 600 million, defending the right of all people to be cared for and to have decent working conditions. It's worth calling love what unpaid work is, as Silvia Federici says. It ends with austerity by betting on the working class, investing 7.6 billion in employment policies, repealing labour reform and not lying, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. It is no longer that yesterday they described an apocalyptic reality, it is that they did not give a true fact. They say there were more women working with you than with any other government. Can you explain to me, then, how the third-quarter EPA shows the highest female employment figure in our entire history? There are 9,248,500 women employed in the labour market. [[Applauds]] Do you want to tell me how it can be the highest figure in history if you worked more than ever? They were working, and the other thing is recognition. They were working, and the other thing is the pay. They were working, and the other thing is the quote. I have no nostalgia for his Government, although it does miss one thing, and it is that the People's Party is and will participate in the State Pact against Gender Violence. It seems a lie that today, listening to you and seeing what you vote for in Europe, do not hesitate to follow the path of the totally misogynistic and retrograde far-right. We have reached 500 million for equality policies and, therefore, 54% is devoted to the fight against macho violence. Three years ago, in this House, we saw them and wanted them to find the parties under the state pact, and this government now surpasses them for the second consecutive year. Although that PP was a trilero with the numbers, with the calendar, with the traceability of the funds, at least he did not participate in such a dangerous and cowardly speech as to deny the existence of Machist violence. I ask you, even if we have many differences, not to go around. Go back to the democratic framework and do not throw away the work of other Members who took the cause quite seriously. Because I can think very differently from you and yet I can fully recognize that then your deputies were working to end the violence to which we are systematically exposed by women and, yes, by the mere fact of being women. To end austerity is to prevent youth from being forced to leave to get a job out, as happened to my generation, or also forced to stay without a job out and destroy their health with minijobs. Remember what sounded so modern and it was a scam and a shame? There is an Asturian hip hop artist, Dark the eMe, who spoke, in his song Asturian in Madrid, about urban legends or having to leave his land, and a decade ago in another song spoke of the generation of 1000 euros. It is curious that in that song he said that the wages of 1000 euros were unworthy and that now we still have to work to make those 1000 euros the interprofessional minimum wage. At that time, people under the age of 30 experienced a rate of 53.2% unemployment - I repeat, 53.2% -. The opposite is that this government has increased the budget by 84.8% for youth policies, housing, culture or university scholarships. They are reasons and material conditions to stay, horizons to develop a life project. It is to stop playing us the future of young people to the Russian roulette, because the road against neoliberal policies is also institutionally fighting the rise of gambling houses, preventing society from ludopathy and repairing the damage it causes. And it must be done with resources and not just with speeches, and it must be done without stigma, defending the fundamental rights and dignity of people. Austerity is eliminated by raising 3% the most sensitive pensions, minimums and poor non-contributory calls, because they have not contributed these women - especially women - their whole lives so that this country too is what it is. The bad non-contributory calls are up. We raise the Iprem by 2.5% and raise the minimum living income by 3%. And we take into account not only the revenues of the previous year, but those of the current year. It ends with austerity by providing oral care within the public health system and ends with it investing in research, innovation and industry. The opposite of neoliberal policies is to act and legislate knowing that our industrial sovereignty is a slave. In Asturias we know this quite well, because we pay quite expensive relocations. That is why these budgets insist and extend along the lines of the previous year, that is why they include the company tax of 15% and that is why this government is committed to a structural reform of the tax system for the next year, with a gender perspective, yes, and taxation of wealth. Redistribution and social justice. It's the other way around. This is the only way, as Dolores Ibarruri said, a Member who was in this House then representing Uviéu, as I am representing Asturians and Asturians today. This is the only way not to leave anyone behind, to defend the rights of all people, not to shield the privileges of a few at the expense of health, freedom, happiness, the lives of many and many. As journalist Yago Álvarez Barba says, austerity was and is necropolitical, the use of social and political power for some people to live and others to die. Because the crisis of 2008 was that we let a lot of people die without social guarantees, with fewer rights, in the face, literally in the face, fired, precarious, unlucky. This neoliberalism did so and, moreover, blamed us, taking responsibility, as if it were a personal failure to live in a State governed by supposed constitutionalists who passed through the lining, with forgiveness, article 128, 47, 14, 50, 44. And while the institutions implemented these neoliberal policies by mashing, they assured that even those few powerful ones responsible for the crisis went out unpunished and went to their parties spending 40,000 euros in confetti. Institutions that do that don't work for citizens. And do you know what happens when institutions don't work? That monsters grow, as Yago Alvarez says. Today, the voice of the monster, but petulant and young man, yes, sits in this House and says that Spain is so small that hardly anyone comes in. That this voice sounds here and that drags the right-wing neighbours as if human rights were an invention and not a fundamental framework is a problem, because it resonates everywhere. And here I wanted to talk about what is not epic but transformation, I wanted to talk about useful politics, that these budgets go in the opposite direction to what was done a decade ago, but they're not going to have a song or they're going to fill the corners with stickers. He was listening to Dad, tell me again last Thursday at the Jovellanos Theatre in Xixon and his author then said that even more than reproaching the generation of parents was included in that current reproach, that of what we are doing now. And I want to tell Ismael and those who follow this debate that we can change things, as so many women and so many men have already done with so many struggles and resistances. Today we can talk about new feminist rights, a law for all families, a Co-responsible Plan, recognizing the cultural sector as a strategic part of our economy, a regulation of cannabis and another productive system, combating the climate crisis and a public energy company, the right to decent housing made law. As so many women and so many men have done anonymously, without hymns or light, we have been able to change things and we will continue to do it, always slower than we need, but we are doing it. So I would tell the honourable Members of the House that they are going to support these budgets that the monster's outburst does not prevent us from seeing how we repopulate, among each and every one of the people who fight and defend the common, the forests of our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a big hug and all our affection and solidarity to the inhabitants of La Palma at these difficult times, but to those who will so much help these General Budgets of the State. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] These budgets do not deserve a full amendment nor are they returned to the Government. Their content or the distribution of the items may be discussed, but certainly not their opportunity or priorities. It is ridiculous to see the People's Party ensure the economic fall of Spain the next day of having known that the number of unemployed is falling for the first time in forty-six years in one month of October or while the calculation of workers in ERTE marks a new minimum, all thanks to a government action that protects workers, because that is to protect the country. He has also said that the United Nations has put the social shield raised by the Government of Spain as an example of good practice during the pandemic before the entire international community. Those successful policies are those that reflect this budget, which is a tool for social and economic reconstruction and the commitment of a left-wing Government to protect the weakest and most vulnerable and thus achieve more sustainable social and economic development. Budgets are a country project that strengthens and consolidates the foundations that we have already established in the 2021 budgets for reconstruction based on enhanced social protection, ensuring the full exercise of rights. They maintain and expand the social shield so as not to leave anyone behind during the pandemic and at the moment. And they are a bet on feminism and full equality of rights between women and men. Addressing the climate emergency, improving the economy and employment, increasing public revenue, the role of European funds and the suspension of European austerity tax rules allow for expansionary budgets, sensibly spending and reducing the public deficit at the same time. In addition, the political action of the United Nations We can to improve the living conditions of people does not exhaust itself in these budgets, but has allowed a housing law that will limit the prices of rent and will finally make housing a right and not a speculative market good. It also initiates a tax reform that improves tax escalation and collection, setting an effective minimum rate of 15% in corporate tax, as it already recommends even the OECD. It also contributes to reducing job insecurity and strengthens public services to build a stronger and more democratic welfare State. That is what needs to be done so that we can make progress. The right has been filled with freedom in this debate, but it refuses to allow freedoms to exercise recognized rights, such as in the laws of abortion or euthanasia, as they are doing in the Community of Madrid. But now six out of every ten euros of budgets will go to social policies, the biggest public investment in our history. Minimum living income and pensions will be expanded, and young people will see their scholarships increased. And a really strategic measure is that of a system of scholarships for the candidates for the judicial career, with the intention of democratizing their access, thus avoiding the embarrassing identification of the Judicial Power with the political right, according to Mr Enrique López. [[Applauds]] They will also boost the ecological transition, giving perhaps one last chance to a planet that is becoming a landfill. The amendments to the whole right reflect the contempt of the young people for the improvement of the living conditions of the popular classes, who are already tired of serving them. The amendments of the other parliamentary groups have no justification at this time. At least for decorum, please step back. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start at the end. After what we experienced yesterday with the extreme right bench in this House, I think we are many and many who from different ideological profiles are already tired and tired, and not only of the bubbles and lies of the extreme right, but also and above all of their rudeness and insults. [[Applauds]] I will tell you, with all calmness, that the ministers you call assholes, the deputies you call witches, the deputies you call witches who say 'get out there' and 'you don't dare to tell me' and the deputies you call terrorists and coups, we have exactly the same legitimacy to be here as you, but much more democratic quality and much more education, gentlemen of the extreme right. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Having said that, and after yesterday's unproductive day, it is fortunately up to us today to speak to all those who, from different perspectives and positions, know how to reach agreements and put the interest of citizens above that of our own party choices. I have to say that voting against the amendments to these budgets as a whole and voting in favour of these budgets is also a vote for democracy, because precisely what those who, since the beginning of the legislature and those who, since the beginning of the pandemic, have been beating and trying to destabilise not this government, but this democracy, would like to see these General State Budgets fall and this government fall. But we're not going to give them that taste and we're not going to let go of the reaction. These are, without a doubt, the budgets of recovery and growth, but not that of Ibex companies, but that of small and medium-sized enterprises and that of families. Yesterday Mr Casado said that he does not delight us today with his presence, that these were budgets of Peronist Keynesianism, and I say to him that if by Peronist Keynesianism he means that we have managed to recover the levels of membership of Social Security in fifteen months compared to the twelve years that it took to recover the government of neoliberalism of friends and cuts of the People's Party, we are very proud of our Peronist Keynesianism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I just talked about Galicia. Galicia needed these budgets. They are fair budgets for Galicia, with an increase of more than 245 million euros over last year's budgets and an increase of 133 million over the last budgets of the People's Party. They are good budgets for Galicia precisely because they are social, because they will protect our elders, because they will help our young people. In short, they are budgets that can be improved and we are going to work for it in the period of amendments and in the years that remain of the legislature, but they are certainly going to improve, to help, to defend that heart of deep Galicia - as a magistrate said recently, unfortunately - from which we feel so proud and proud and to which we will continue to defend in this House with responsibility and hope. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. At fifteen minutes, a little less than this speech lasted, it was Republican Left to present an amendment to all these budgets and de facto to this government. The limit was two last Friday, as you know, and it was up to one and forty-five minutes negotiating, because the PSOE specifically said no, but not to what? For not to two very simple things to understand: the first, to comply with the outstanding last year, that for a question of credibility of all, and the second, to protect and shield Catalan, the co-official languages specifically, in the audiovisual production of its audiovisual law. Of these two conditions, what do you think cost more, the first, which is money - the usual, scholarships, minimum living income, international cooperation, very important, but money - or the second, which are rights, which was to establish a sub-account within the quota? Which one do you think cost more? Money or rights? They've guessed, the rights. [[Applauds]] This was not and is not a mania of 'indepes', as insignia comrades fans of Robespierre have said or published. I'm going to give you a piece of information. In Catalonia and Valencia alone, the Catalan audiovisual sector employs 26,651 people and 7,000 people respectively. We are talking about more than 33,000 jobs at stake, which depend on the most progressive and plurinational government in the history of humanity to protect in its audiovisual law the co-official languages, namely Catalan, Basque and Galician. You do not ask, ladies and gentlemen, that the second season of The Squid Game be recorded in Vic - which would not be wrong - you do not ask that. It is simply requested that a progressive Government not legislate against the different languages of its own country. A progressive government is called upon to legislate in favour of culture rather than the dictate of a multinational. [[Applauds]] Do you understand me? This, until one and forty-five minutes last Friday, was not achieved. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, believe me, we are the same as 2019. Esquerra Republicana would have presented here today an amendment to the whole in defense of the linguistic, cultural and social rights of the people of Catalonia, because it is so important for Esquerra Republicana that our sons and daughters have the scholarships that they owe, as they are allowed to speak, to love and to think about the language of the land that they tread. [[Applauds]] If today there is still a sacred consensus within Catalan society from Santa Coloma - I am from Santa Coloma, the cradle of linguistic immersion - to Berga, it is the language, the Catalan. This is so thanks to thousands of workers who came to Catalonia to leave their skins, to work, to literally build their lives with their hands from the mud, and wanted their children and grandchildren to want the tongue of the land they stepped on. In my case, they were Andalusian. Out of respect for them and for them we will never let them touch our tongue. [[Applauds]] There is one thing to remember: only the first stage of this negotiation has passed, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, only the first. It depends on you that you can overcome the second one, that is, that you can talk, that you can turn these budgets into something a little bit better. Let me warn you from this humble, but important arithmetically, parliamentary group: pride in politics, and in life, is a bad counselor. We know that after the national congress of Valencia you live a high moment, a high moment, an alpha moment. In fact, some of you just lack your silver back by negotiating. [[Laughter]] But they forget something, they forget that they still depend on themselves and on themselves for the same things, and they forget that they start to have a lot of people very angry, too angry. Gentlemen of the Government, calculate your strength well, because I don't know if you have any petrol left in the engines for so much travel. I don't know. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you do not rule on the hope of your government action, you rule on the fear of your alternative, which is all these people.Your motor is fear, that we are afraid of these people. [[pointing to the seats on the right]] And we're afraid of them, we're very aware of who they are. But in a country where the minutes of a Member of Parliament are withdrawn from a Member of the Left for the false - I repeat, false - denunciation of a police officer, while still here, in this country, you do not know who M. Rajoy is, fear, fear not only we have to have it ourselves. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] In a country where the criminalization and ridicule of migrant minors, feminists, transsexuals, Muslims, gypsies, independents or trade unionists has been normalised, to such an extent that it is called irreverence, bravery or political error - and here there is a parliamentary group with 52 Members living on it - fear should not only be felt by others. In a country where, instead of fighting for that of fraternity, equality and legality, some fight for that of canes, jams and junk food, fear, fear of the alternative not only should we feel it. That fear of your alternative, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is not what should do to us and to us to accept everything that we are asked to do; that fear of that alternative should be what would make you agree everything with us and with us. [[Applauds]] Republican Left knows perfectly well what fascism is. We know perfectly well what fascism is in this country - we have survived it for ninety years - so do not believe now that we are going to redeem our convictions for fear. Republican Left is very clear that in politics you keep celebrating victories, but also overcoming defeats. And you? Almost €460,000 million. That is the money that the Government proposes to spend and distribute in these budgets for the year 2022. They have been said to be the most social in the history of this country. Is that true? No, it's not true; it's false. They are not the most social budgets in the history of this country, they are the promise - I repeat, the promise - of the most social budgets of this country. They are the highest investment promise in Catalonia in ten years, they are not the highest investment for Catalonia in ten years. Budgets are only the promise of hundreds of thousands of euros in hundreds of pages, but it is part of our responsibility as public representatives of the citizenry to exercise all our negotiating and parliamentary strength so as not to miss a single opportunity to improve the lives of the living people where they live. Whoever doesn't understand this, who calls this useless in exchange for nothing, has been sitting in a seat for a long time, moving in an official car and living on Twitter for a long time. [[Applauds]] I want to comment on three things about these most social budgets in history. The first, the Treasury. There is not a single measure aimed, Minister, at creating a more just and progressive tax system, not a single measure; there is not a single measure to bring in more people; there is not a single measure against the tax chiringuito, for example, which has been mounted on the right in Madrid for twenty-five years, a tax chiringuito that increases one hundred per cent of the property tax, inheritance tax and donation tax, a chiringuito that makes the people of this community lose EUR 4 billion each year in hospitals and schools, for example, a chiringuito that captures 6,000 fortunes and so many other companies and a chiringuito that has created something called empty Spain. Madrid is a black hole that around it simply creates paramos. And there is not a single measure to prevent large companies from continuing to tax less than a SME, Minister. Large companies today contribute less than half of what they contribute in 2007. In this country, ladies and gentlemen, a multinational pays ten points less in taxes than a SME and there is not a single measure to alleviate this. We, Minister, for example, are proposing an increase in the online gambling tax of 30% and a reduction in VAT on women's hygiene products, diapers, health services, hairdressers, residences and culture. Do you agree? Because if you agree, they'll come out, if not, surely not. In case you have any doubt that by lowering VAT you lose collection, I give you a solution: let's record, burn to capital income. These days there are a lot of tweets - business statements - that say they don't find workers for hospitality, for transportation. Actually, they don't find slaves, that's the reality. [[Applauds]] Because real wealth does not create capital investment, real wealth creates labour force. [[Applauds]] Let's record the first, dignify the second. Second, Defense. Defense, your favorite: 11 709 million euros, a 7.78 % more. The Ministry of Defence, in fact, is the ministry with the highest percentage of budget execution. Here they do, they always do. It was already known that you are arms sellers to Saudi Arabia, Colombia, Egypt, Emirates, Israel, Turkey or Iraq, all of them countries with war crimes recognized by the UN. This was already known, but they also enrich their friends with these budgets. Defence, Minister, has awarded a contract worth EUR 2083 million in combat cars to a company called TESS Defence. TESS Defence is an arms company that has just hired a former general named Francisco Javier Abajo Merino, retired, responsible for the armament of the Spanish army until two days ago. Get married easy. If the electrical thing is a revolving door, what's that called? And if I ask here, it's because you will systematically see commissions of inquiry about this. The third, Industry: EUR 8423 million. What's the trap? That only 8% will be dedicated to SMEs. There is still no single measure to combat the main cause of closure of small, medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers: lateness. Ladies and gentlemen, IBEX companies pay SMEs in this country at 191 days -191-, when the legal limit is 60. And there's not a single measure to make up for it. It is due to SMEs in this country by the big multinationals 80 billion euros and you do absolutely nothing. I want to do some thinking to finish. The first, 1% of the planet has as much as 99% left. People like Amancio Ortega, Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg and five other people - there are eight - own the same thing as 3.6 billion people all over the planet, that is, eight people own the same thing as half the planet. Either the left - all the left, let's have the flag we have - we fight this terrible inequality or the ultra-right will rule the world. That's the alternative. And what is the best way to fight inequality? Redistribute. Direct aid, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a cheque or a voucher is neither fair nor redistributive. A cheque may have electoral revenues immediately, but it does not create any kind of long-term society. Since suicide is the main cause of death among young people, access to housing is a chimera for young people and 40% unemployment among young people, ladies and gentlemen, it is insulting that when talking about young people, we talk about botellones or vouchers or cheques. [[Applauds]] Above all, ladies and gentlemen, the right to be enriched by someone with ten homes is the right of ten families to have a decent home. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the opposite of poverty is not wealth, it is justice, and general State budgets should be aimed at this. Second idea, poor feeding. Sweets, frozen foods, diabetes and overweight are also a matter of class, because breakfasting fruit, eating seasonal vegetables or eating fresh fish is infinitely - infinitely - more expensive than a Bollycao or frozen potatoes. When the right-hand man mocks this, he's simply exercising class hatred, because he knows it. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Freedom is the opposite of privilege; freedom is that, regardless of your bank account, your mother can go to a quality public residence or your child can go to a quality public school. That's freedom and not choosing between a Tiger or a Bollycao. That is the freedom and general budgets of the State should be aimed at that. And the third, the problem of pensions is not expenditure. Let us identify the working conditions, especially of migrants, who are paying for their precarious work, even if it annoys many young people in this House, the pensions of our elderly. I ended up addressing all Catalans and Catalans, whether independenceists, unionists, autonomists, sovereignists or half-pensionists. Imagine a country in which they are believed, made, covenanted, closed, budgets that do not finance tanks or kings are voted on. So pretty would be a Catalan republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u18	I wish to invoke the application of the Regulation in accordance with Article 72, respectfully, by virtue of the application of Article 103, which refers to uttering offensive words or concepts against the decorum of the House and its members and institutions of the State, but also against any other person or entity. Mr. Rufián said that the police officer who was assaulted by Mr. Rodriguez filed a false complaint. If Mr. Rufián were not protected by the privilege of inviolability, this would be an offence of slander for falsely accusing someone of committing another offence, which is that of false denunciation, besides saying, of implying, of insinuating, of uttering, that the Supreme Court had to prevail in accepting this false denunciation. I would, therefore, like you to call the order, if you have it well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u19	Very well, Mr Bal, you have had the opportunity to mention what seemed offensive to you and will thus be reflected in the Journal of Sessions. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come man, that's all right!]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all your lordships. Mr Rufián, before we begin, I would like to thank your group for its willingness to talk about the budgets. I have listened to him carefully throughout his speech and I always like to recall - especially when we are preparing for a negotiation on the amendments, the contributions that each parliamentary group understands to be better at enriching the budget - that even if it seems so, the budget law is not the way in which the end of the negotiations of many other political initiatives that are being dealt with in this Congress converges. I say this because it always seems to me - if I may say so - a little unfair whether it is the debate on budgets, or all that means support for the budget, that it has to accommodate all the discrepancies or all the differences that we are encountering throughout the year at the time when legislative proposals enter this House which, of course, have to be subjected to both the possibility of enrichment by other groups and the capacity to agree on the amendments that may be proposed. That being said, as always, our predisposition with any law - the more with this law that is one of the most important laws that enters the House - is to listen, to dialogue and, if possible, to be able to reach the agreements that each of us, with their respective ideology and with their respective thoughts, that I respect scrupulously, believe that it can arrive, because a negotiation always consists - you know it well - in a session and, also, in being firm in what one understands that it cannot be negotiated. Having said that, I believe that the context in which the debate on these budgets - in particular the relationship of the Government with its parliamentary group - has developed is well known, since yesterday it was the subject of many interpretations by the rest of the groups. I want to make it very clear - you have also said it here in the gallery, although probably from another perspective - that the obligation we have all who are sitting here is at least trying to reach an agreement, trying to do what we said yesterday was useful policy. In short, that everyone can continue to make progress on those issues that he understands are good for each territory, for each investment project, for one sector or for anything that is contemplated in the Budget Act. So my predisposition is to dialogue and look for meeting points on the subjects that you have moved here this morning. I am aware - and I am aware that you are aware - that the protection of the co-official languages is not a problem, Mr Rufián, and you are well aware of it, that the Government is not clear that it has the constitutional obligation to protect the co-official culture and languages of each and every territory, but that it is a much more pragmatic issue with regard to the drafting of a project and, also, the possibility that we do not incorporate anything into the legal texts that can alienate or hinder the arrival of investments. These were the arguments, but we do not understand at all the obligation conferred by the Constitution on all the public authorities for the protection of the co-official languages, an issue which is very important for this Government and which we have shown throughout our history to keep in mind - a clear example in this matter is the Education Act - by promoting as far as possible the dissemination of cultures, which in each territory are identities and which have in some way the obligation to be counted and to be replicated. As you know, the acceptance by your parliamentary group to be able to dialogue these accounts is never interpreted as a blank cheque. You did not say that, but you did say that the government can sin with pride. Forget, Mr Rufián, the arithmetical circumstances of this House and the situation of the Spanish Government in a minority regarding the majority in this House. If anyone had that temptation, I can assure you that he would be immediately dissuaded. There is no more possibility than agreement and dialogue. It is clear that everyone would like to have a majority that would allow the entire programme he wants to implement to be scrapped, but that is not possible because the citizens have wanted it that way. Therefore, for this Government, dialogue with your group becomes an obligation for many elements, not only for the budgets but also for many other laws that enter here too for the improvement of people's lives, and also, Your Honor, why not, to try to give way to dialogue in Catalonia, an element that you know this Government takes seriously, and I believe that we have demonstrated it over all these years. President Sánchez, since his arrival in Moncloa, I believe that he has been a person who, by his actions, has demonstrated his firm and democratic conviction of the need for dialogue, of the need to seek consensual solutions and, therefore, to reach out always and permanently so that we can talk, dialogue and agree to the extent of our possibilities. That is why - I also like to move it every time we talk about an alliance for some specific law - it is clear - and I think that is also important - that neither the Spanish Government is trying to agree on rules, nor budgets or any other to remain in power; I do not understand that expression of being in power. If one is in positions of responsibility it is because one wants to do things, and in order to do things one needs agreement and dialogue, if not, it makes no sense to occupy power, and so does the rest of my Government, of course. On the other hand, at no time can it be interpreted that an agreement of your group with the Government implies the renunciation by your political formation of any of the aspirations that, although I do not share them, legitimately defends your group in relation to the vertebration of Spain or, directly, the situation in Catalonia. I think it's good that this is known, because it seems that, when you feel like talking, it's that you're making concessions, you're humiliating yourself or you're abdicating your own thinking. You and I don't need to tell each other this, because we both have very clear what we are and what we think about, but it is good that the people who listen to us know that in no case sitting down to dialogue means giving up what everyone thinks, and what does mean what is behind is a disposition, each from their position, to address issues that can be shared and of common interest. Because, Mr Rufián, I believe that if there is something that unites, if there is something that allows us to find points of encounter between your group and the political groups that make up the government, it is that we are clearly left-wing political formations, that know that progress, that social welfare goes inevitably to improving the lives of citizens, with better fiscal justice, better social justice, a capacity for greater participation of workers and the middle class in the daily struggle, in the daily struggle to incorporate resources into all those challenges that we face. Perhaps the most important thing we can share - and you said something about it in the rostrum - has to do with youth unemployment, the ability to give a hope horizon, I insist, on issues on which we agree, independently, that there are other issues on which your group will continue to defend what it believes and, of course, the Government will also continue to defend what it believes. That is why the budget does not exhaust the channels of dialogue either. This is something I also wanted to say very clearly. Spaces of dialogue, meeting spaces, places where we can talk civilizedly and try to find formulas that will allow us to deepen, from our point of view, the self-government for Catalonia, respecting, of course, its positions, which are very clear, because every day they repeat them, in matters that you know this government does not share. But the debate on budgets, as a matter of priority, has to talk about items, investments, the ability to provide resources to citizens' rights in relation to health, education and dependence. And that is a very important debate for people's day-to-day lives and, in parallel, there are other areas of debate that have to do, as I said, with the territorial structure of Spain and, therefore, where issues that their political formation has always wanted to push forward, and on which, of course, this government is sitting. But the fact that you support the accounts does not imply a renunciation on your part, nor does it imply an assignment on our part in matters on which, you know, we have serious, very serious discrepancies. But why should a formation such as yours or a Government such as mine have an interest in reaching agreements in order to make further progress? It is very simple and everyone can understand it, except those who do not know how to justify - and yesterday we witnessed it - saying no to the processing of budgets. I would like to remind this House that we are here today to decide whether the budget continues to be dealt with. Then there will be votes at the end of this session at which the budget can definitely be approved, but what we are discussing now is whether the budget really has to continue its processing, and whether the political formations present here have contributions that they can make to improve those public accounts. And what brings us together with your group and this government in order to be able to vote in favour of these budgets? I believe that the accounts, objectively, Mr Rufián, protect pensioners. We are separating pensions from the Budgets Act, an aspiration which I believe is shared by the left-wing groups in this House so that it is not at the top of the budget negotiation or the turn government whether or not to update the pensions of the elderly and, therefore, we give guarantee and security to all pensioners - around 10 million people - so that they know that this government, in alliance with other political formations, is also protecting the future of our elderly and is ensuring that our pension system is sustainable, because you and I know that the pension system is sustainable; what is needed is to put it into practice. These budgets strengthen the productive fabric of all of Spain, but also of Catalonia, and I think this is important. After a pandemic we have to help our companies, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, I share it with you, because the others, the big multinationals, the industrial groups have other springs, other mechanisms that allow them to sustain themselves, but the autonomous, the small productive fabric has the public authorities to be able to boost aid when they need it, reduce the cost of energy or try to create a legal framework that allows them to be more efficient, more competitive, gain size and can grow by conquering new markets. I also told him that, in this draft budget, what we can share with you has to do with the new opportunities for young people. This is something that I take very seriously and it bothers me - as it bothers you - that you can make jokes about what young people may or may not understand or what some have intended to say about buying the young people's vote, which seems abominable to me. Obviously, these generations that we have ahead to build the future of Spain are the best prepared generations in our history, and it is a collective success of our democracy to have had the capacity to make universal an educational system that allows people, regardless of their level of income, to study. But it is also true that those who have to make their studies compatible with other activities, for example, a job - usually precarious, which always has to be said - must be helped through a scholarship policy that allows them to increase this endowment and that allows them to accompany them to do something that their group and mine seem absolutely desirable to us: that the children of the workers, the children of the middle class people climb the social elevator that represents education so that their life, their vital project is better than their parents' vital project, something that I believe any developed society has to expect. It's a care budget for the elderly. Its parliamentary group has always been very insistent on the need to revitalize the funding of the unit. This budget increases dependency funding by 600 million, 23% which, if we add it to the previous year's budget, we are talking about 46% in just two years, almost 50% increase in dependency levels. Is that enough? No, we are aware that no, since there are still people waiting to receive help at home, have teleassistance or directly have the capacity to obtain a place in residence. But I believe that we can share, without any self-congratulation, that this Government has taken very seriously that it was necessary to strengthen that pillar of the welfare state and, therefore, we are making a bet of EUR 12 billion in just two years in order to be able to strengthen the dependency services provided by the whole of the autonomous communities. The budget invests in health in a very important way. Health, transferred to the autonomous communities, has demonstrated in the pandemic the obligation that we all have to have a good public health alert system that allows us to anticipate situations, that allows us to respond in a coordinated way no longer say in Spain, no longer say in Europe, I mean in the world. Your group and my group can also share that, in this case, the reality is very clumsy and, regardless of whether a country or a political formation can have solidarity, in this case it is very clear: if we do not immunize the entire world population, the rest of the population remains at risk. And, although it was a selfish question, Mr Rufián, whom I share, but although some did so only because of a selfish position of protection, it is essential and it is necessary to increase development cooperation, and also to facilitate access to vaccines to those countries which do not have the capacity to do so because of economic difficulties or, Mr Rufián, because multinational companies that manufacture this drug technology do not make it available to those countries to buy or sell it and therefore have effective difficulty in accessing it. Vocational training must be promoted. You said it, we discussed it yesterday throughout the day. If this legislature is marked by something that is really a priority for the Government, it is the commitment to education and, in particular, vocational training. It is a law that will have to count on the contribution of many others; a law that will have to be developed not only from public provision, from public centres, also dual vocational training, in relation to companies, and we have to be able to address many subjects that are shared here. I say one, the last in relation to labour reform in relation to the type of contract to be held when a person is being trained and, therefore, his training and this Government can share the need to move forward so that the labour market has new qualifications that are useful for the work they are currently requiring. It's true what you say, there are companies that by tweet or by different expressions are demanding new qualifications that the labor market has shortage, although it doesn't make any sense having a part of our population in order to be able to train in that discipline. On the other hand, we also commented yesterday, it cannot be that people who want to study a particular specialty cannot do so because the public offer of this volume of places does not have enough capacity to accommodate. That is why the European funds have also made vocational training, and it has been a negotiation that could say to you laborious with the European Commission, can be considered. We could go on with many other issues, but it does seem important to me to point out that there are issues that your political formation and this Government share with us regarding the promotion of new rights, of citizens' freedoms, and we have to work in that direction independently, he said, that for the issues in which we see our differences we have space and tables of dialogue that are transparent, but that allow us to discuss with the serenity and complexity that these matters have, because none of us sit for a pose or a photo, we really sit down in order to be able to dialogue. Your Honour, I was saying that it did not seem ambitious enough - I understand that - to draft budgets, for example, with regard to taxation, and I have to admit that it is. The Government has decided to respect the work of the expert group, and will receive in February the document that will allow us to see what are the lines or guidelines that experts understand best when dealing with taxation or wealth taxation. I share your concern in this rostrum. We need to be able to see how the figures that have traditionally been pivoting over the imposition on wealth can be improved. You were talking, for example, about the harmonization of certain tax figures, such as property tax. I call it harmonization, since it is a question of having the capacity to set minimum levels so that certain fiscal figures do not become ineffective, once the legitimate powers of the autonomous communities are exercised, so as to cause a spiral throughout the State. I believe that this is what concerns your group; it is what worries the Government, that the communities are not being dragged into a downward spiral in taxation - we are seeing it in the presentation of budgets these days - and also from an unresponsible perspective, Mr Rufián, if I may, because some allow themselves to make a tax reduction and then either they ask the Spanish Government for money or they directly place revenue in their draft budgets that they will never have any backing, because they are pivoted on transfers that do not exist in this budget. You were also talking about the need to intelligently guide taxation in order to have an impact on closing the gap with regard to women. You were talking specifically about certain tax figures that can contribute at that level, and I add some other in relation to the environment. Eye! Because in the coming years environmental taxation is going to have a very important weight at international level, and we need to be able to accompany this just transition, without being perceived as an added cost for all citizens or for all businesses, but we can really make incentives to encourage those behaviours to be addressed with positive discrimination by the public authorities. Accompanying the just transition seems to me more important than ever in terms such as taxation, which can really contribute to being able to progressively achieve a decarbonised society without current generations having to mortgage their present so that that can be possible. He was also talking about the defense. The Minister of Defense is here today. I would like to say very clearly, Mr Rufián, that, beyond the approach - which I know - your group has on this policy, I would like to highlight the important jobs that are associated with the defence sector. When we are talking about the increasing defence budget, we are talking about more workload, for example in Andalusian shipyards; we are talking about more workload for Galician shipyards; we are talking about workload for Airbus plants or other kinds of industries that are essential for our country to remain at the forefront on such important ground as aerospace; we are talking about being able to have business opportunities in areas such as technology, the digitisation of vehicles, aircraft, submarines; and extremely important issues. I would therefore ask you that your look at the Defence budget is not only thinking about the security of our country, but also about what this sector brings to the industry that currently exists in Spain, the preservation of these jobs and the contribution in innovation that can imply support for this whole sector. When talking about lateness, I too can share your concern about small businesses that survive if they are paid on time and their own survival is not put at risk, but nothing comes in this budget because there is other legislation, other initiatives in this House that will have to deal with important issues such as lateness. He has already announced that we will also have to discuss the competition law, where these issues have much to do with it, which will soon be adopted by the Council of Ministers, and which will also shortly enter this House. Therefore, Mr Rufián, we have time to discuss all these issues. Finally, I would like to inform you that the budgets to which we come today to give assent for their processing are good for Catalonia. And I say this because yesterday I had the opportunity to discuss with other political formations, specifically independent political formations also present in this House, and it affronted them, reproaching them that they did not have a favorable vote for numbers and public accounts that provide essential resources for Catalonia. And when I say essential I am referring, for example, to the investments that I believe this government has taken note of what you said at the beginning of your speech, there are 2230 million for Catalonia, 6% more than last year's accounts. There is an absolute respect for Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy, 19% if we incorporate the capital transfers - chapter 7 - that in the bilateral commission we decide that they will be implemented by the Generalitat - even if they are investments of the State in Catalonia -. But you're right, Mr. Rufián, and I don't find it difficult to recognize what we can improve and what we don't do entirely well. We therefore need to closely monitor the implementation of the investments envisaged in this draft budget which were included in the current budget and which you supported. Because I share the view that the Government's actions are less credible, that it is less credible to be able to agree if the commitments reached are not met at least at the most important stage and, on the other hand, there is no explanation as to whether there is anything that, for whatever reason, does not allow us to move forward. That is why I think we also need to be innovative in order to see how - this is how we have positioned ourselves - we are able for the coming year to follow up on the implementation to our maximum levels. It has been a complicated year, we discussed it at the negotiating meetings, not only for the Government of Spain, but also for the governments of the autonomous communities. The Generalitat and the Government of Spain have similar percentages of execution, but it is true that practically systematically the execution in Catalonia remains below the average, and I do not see - I also commented here yesterday - any reason for that to be so. We must therefore seek assurances that, once the investments have been approved, they will be implemented in relation to the average and, if possible, to the maximum volume of implementation. I would like to ask you again to move the compromise from this rostrum, and we are prepared to put it forward. We are also prepared to reach an agreement on the audiovisual law on which, as you have also said at the beginning of the intervention, the Government has been very clear, it will be a law that we have agreed with the Republican Left of Catalonia. Therefore, Your Honor, we will have to see the literal that has to appear in the legal text so that the co-official languages are perfectly protected. I was talking to him about the 2230 million, about the 200 million compliance, which is also good that we have to account for these compliances with the judgment of the third Chamber of the Constitutional Court - as we were placed on a bilateral commission, we are complying - and also the transfer of 336 million - you will recall, Mr Rufián - for the regularization of the financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra, beyond that we have taken to the basis of the financing model everything that has to be consolidated in order for it to evolve also for the future. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, we have allocated 680 million for neighbourhoods, 120 million for the Mediterranean corridor or - something in which perhaps the amount is not important, but yes the concept - 20 million to enhance the cultural capital of Barcelona, as we have been working on previous budgets as well. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in these four years of government I believe, Mr Rufián, that the public accounts and legislative initiatives have certainly been good for Catalonia and, of course, much better than in the last four years of the People's Party government. I'm not going to bore you with numbers, with numbers, but I think it's also important for Catalans and Catalans to know this. This Government has always been working with that look that allows us to have special consideration for all the territories and, fundamentally, for the protection of those identity signs that allow Spain to be richer and more plural. From the COVID funds, which were made available to the Autonomous Communities, I would also like to remind you that this year 7 billion are in a fund that is envisaged in this budget - which some say is not in the budget - in relation to the VAT information system and negative settlement, two concepts that we are not going to repeat again because they have been much debated in this House, since we continue to think about the importance of supporting the public finances of the Autonomous Communities so that they can continue to provide, in this last part of the pandemic, a quality health service, and also the safety standards in the educational system that has allowed us to protect young people. I conclude, Mr Rufián, by expressing the readiness for this dialogue. I insist that we are very aware that this government never has a blank cheque, that it would like some political formation to give it to it, that we have to sweat it every time there is an initiative coming to this room. I know of the firmness of your parliamentary group, which we have experienced in recent days, when you explained it, so that the introduction of the amendment to the whole, which also allows us to learn, does not occur. I believe that this exchange of ideas and this exchange of thoughts allows us to give us reasons for why, because I believe that neither your group nor my group ever raise questions that are capricious, but they respond to something that everyone, in their legitimacy, wants to preserve. I am sure that, just as we have agreed that the audiovisual law will have to be agreed with you, establishing or reserving part of that quota for the protection of the co-official languages, we will have the capacity to have, throughout this whole processing period, until December, when the accounts are finally voted on, to have improved these accounts for Catalonia and also to have contributed to the support of the left-wing policies that this Government wants to promote, with the support of a formation that, in addition to being independent, I understand that it is left-wing. Of course, in that second part there are many reasons that unite us and, above all, there are many people who are waiting for us in our agreements. With that provision I hold your hand, Mr. Rufián, with the conviction that we will reach an agreement before the whole process is over for the final approval to take place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u22	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply, especially for verbalizing what was agreed on last Friday, that Esquerra Republicana will close quotas for co-official languages in the audiovisual law. Let's see if we can open some news with this cut of yours. Allow me to devote these five minutes to talking about something that I believe, as a spokesman for the main Catalan parliamentary group in this House, and as a Catalan, as a citizen of Catalonia, I have the responsibility to say, for things that were said yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen - as the spokesman for the main Catalan group in this House says - Catalonia is much more than a conversation; in fact, than a discussion between Esquerra Republicana and Junts. I repeat: Catalonia is much more than a discussion between Esquerra Republicana and Junts, much more, much more, and, as we fight for our past or for the present, more present and more future we are giving to others. [[Applauds]] And secondly - even more importantly, as a Catalan, as a citizen of Catalonia - we are all Catalans and Catalans, we are voting for those who vote. I don't care about the name, language, origin or party of a Catalan or a Catalan, I don't care. Being independent doesn't make you more or less Catalan or Catalan. Our obligation, as public representatives, as advocates of a very determined idea, which in our case is the self-determination of Catalonia, is to ask as many people as possible. But to tell them that because they do not share this path or this idea are not Catalans or Catalans to us seems very bad idea, very bad idea. [[Applauds]] And we believe that any party, but especially the party that we have the honour to represent in this House, which is Republican Left - and it already does - must govern for all and for all, speak the language they speak, have the name they have, live in the neighborhood where they live and vote for those who vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u24	Thank you, President. Egun on, minister. Today we are discussing the amendments to the draft budget as a whole, of course in a context with many uncertainties, which I will talk about later, but also at a decisive moment, because we are at a new stage, in which it is no longer just a question of alleviating the consequences of the pandemic, but of recovery and transformation, of promoting sustainable economic, environmental and social progress. In this still exceptional context, the Basque Nationalist Party shares the need for the State to have budgets that allow it to address the economic recovery that it has already launched and also to focus on the transformation of the economy. To this end, they have two extraordinary resources: the Next Generation fund and the safeguard on budgetary stability, with the suspension of fiscal rules agreed by Europe until 2023, which, of course, continues to allow an expansive policy to reverse the effects of austerity policies that in the previous crisis prevented necessary investment policies, since those rules did not discriminate between current spending and capital expenditure; an expansive policy to also allow the change of the economic model and generate productivity increases, which, in short, is what needs to be addressed, responding to the structural and substantive problems that persist in the Spanish economy. In this environment of uncertainty, once again - we saw it yesterday - the debate arises around the macro table, about its validity. If we look at the appearances of the independent bodies: Banco de España, AIReF and even other analysts, it is true that the accounts start a priori from a weak macro table, because they estimate that growth will be lower than the government expects; they estimate that it ranges from 6.5% to 5.5% or 5%, a downward revision that is basically due to three factors: the INE cut on the growth estimate for the second quarter from 2.8% to 1.1%; secondly, to price escalation, and thirdly, to bottlenecks of the global supply and production chains. However, this does not mean that there is no recovery, that there is no growth, but that this recovery will perhaps be at a much slower pace than expected. However, we cannot remain alone with what one is interested in from what analysts say and, therefore, we cannot avoid that they also say with regard to the above-mentioned risks that supply restrictions are going to be transitory and that inflationary pressures will be transitory, as they will tend to soften as global chains recover, even though they may be more persistent than originally envisaged, and in this case it is true that households and businesses would perhaps be subject to cuts in purchasing power, which would be less vigorous than demand. We are particularly concerned about the issue of supplies, which is making production lines paralyzed, temporary closures of companies, and we must not forget that with factories stopped, without productivity, wages and profits do not improve, which are also driving consumption. Furthermore, if the supply of raw materials is not guaranteed, projects associated with European funds can be put at risk. We must work together, we understand, in this respect. So, are there any risks? Yes, we cannot deny this, but in an environment in which the economy, despite its weight, is growing - the global, the European and also the Spanish - with a surge of tourism, the growth of consumption and the advance in the vaccination process; in an environment, moreover - I think it should be said - in which the underlying inflation is still at acceptable levels, less than 2%, and in which estimates, of course, are better by 2022, although these will probably also suffer corrections. That is why, from our point of view, we believe that we must flee from catastrophic forecasts, because the post-COVID situation remains uncertain and economic activity remains conditioned to the stimulus of economic policy. Precisely because of this, it is necessary to act or manage the data with caution, whether negative or positive; it will have to be kept on alert and, of course, with the amber lights on. We must try to have the most feasible and up-to-date forecasts possible, yes, as they are fundamental to fiscal policy decisions, consumption, investment by families and businesses, even for the credibility of the policy, but we must also recognize that it is difficult to make estimates and correct when it comes to building a future to transform and move towards an economy that has nothing to do with the current one. It is not a continuous economic policy. In short, the macro table offers a photo finish at a given time that offers useful references for decision making. The important thing will be to have the levers necessary to reduce the consequences of a variation in this macro table. The economy is not an exact science. I think it is important, and so we have heard from the independent bodies, such as the Banco de España and also the AIReF, that fiscal and economic policy must go the way to help and accompany recovery. In this sense, the words of the Governor of the Banco de España, if we hear them completely, go beyond what yesterday moved us most of the groups in their amendments to the whole. There was talk of being rigorous on three fronts: firstly, that the design of budgetary policy should maintain its expansive tone, and rigorously assess, it is true, any decision that implies a permanent increase in the level of public expenditure; secondly, to design a medium-term fiscal policy strategy that will allow, once the crisis has been overcome - I insist, once the crisis has been overcome - to rebuild the margins of fiscal action in the face of future crises and to ensure the sustainability of public accounts, and thirdly, to be particularly demanding in terms of the deployment of an economic policy favourable to growth and to maximise the impact of European funds. Madam Minister, if we focus on the big numbers, we again see that the growth of the Spanish economy is relying on European funds, and we are concerned about this. We are concerned, on the one hand, that the Government is overly confident that this growth will be largely due to the high implementation of European funds, that it is perhaps somewhat optimistic if we take account of the delay in implementing those planned for 2021 and that the estimates say that it will not reach 50%, and we are also concerned that most of the public investments in the draft budgets depend on the implementation of those funds. It is essential that investment projects clearly respond to a transformative character of the economy, that they ensure much stronger and more sustainable growth over time and that they respond to greater and better co-governance with the autonomous communities, forging loyal and transparent agreements, while providing certainty, confidence and security, their implementation ensure the estimated impact on GDP growth expected and have a good economic return. In addition, we continue to note that European funds are distributed among ministries, fragmented into components and finalist actions defined by the Government for their subsequent distribution and execution by the autonomous communities, assuming at best a management order. These are finalist actions that in many cases are driven more by criteria of cohesion than of transformation and designed to recover pre-pandemic levels of GDP and intertwine weaknesses, rather than reinforce strengths and seek paths of progress. They are European funds with tractor projects, it is supposed, in order to raise productivity and technological capacity, and, ultimately, to promote a profound transformation, but on which there are still too many questions - reforms, type of projects - that can compromise the growth potential of the economy. However, we welcome the fact that the Government, apart from the channels of each ministry, intersectoral actions and the sharing of funds with communities, has understood that the autonomous communities can develop the so-called Regional Loss, tractor projects that connect directly with social reality and that will be erected as a tool to implement sound investment policies, adding them to the investment effort of each of the autonomous communities, based on knowledge of the economic, business and labour fabric of the territory. This is going to be transformative. [[The Lord]] As for the revenue side, yesterday we heard about optimistic, real income, tax increases, i.e. the classic criticisms of all budget debates, as I said last year. The truth is that, although there is a difference of 17 billion between the government's tax revenue estimate and the progress of the previous ones' liquidation, agencies such as AIReF see them as feasible. For this group, the increase in collection at best again is too much supported in the economic cycle, because, truly, as much as has been said here, there are no major tax measures on the revenue side - minimum type of companies, excise duties - and it does not stand out precisely for increasing the capacity of collection in a structural way; indeed, a minimum type of companies online once again with which we have implemented in Euskadi since 2013, which in 2018 was changed to 17% of the tax base on a general basis and to 15% in case of maintenance or job creation, excluding the R+D+i addresses. Once again the outlaws, with their legislators, have been pioneers and progressives, although some do not like to hear it. This weekend Minister Belarus said on Twitter: 'The G20 gives a new boost to the minimum tax of 15%. Spain has already started to go that way.' Yesterday you said it, minister, we always look at the bad, we always look at the outside, not recognizing or setting an example to those who have already gone that way. Euskadi has already gone through it, and it is true, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, as we are told in each of your speeches, that all the progressive fiscal measures introduced by the first coalition government in the state are a copy of what we have in Euskadi. So, yes, in Euskadi we are also progressive in this, although their group there stains us with something else: we must commune with what one promulgates. On the other hand, it is a contradiction that political groups have spoken of this measure as a fiscal hack and that, in turn, they have described Euskadi as a fiscal paradise, when this measure has been in place for many years in the historical territories. What are we left with, gentlemen of Citizens, gentlemen of VOX? Of course, it is not the time for a rise in taxes, but also a fall in taxes, based again on Laffer's napkin, as some groups have already announced, all without touching policies such as health or pensions, a contradiction, since those who claim a fall in taxes also through motions propose to increase aid to SMEs, to self-employed people, to tourism or an increase in wages, thus maintaining and increasing the stimulus of the economy. Where are they going to cut? Of course, a tax reduction is clearly impossible, it is a chimera if you want to maintain and improve the current system of protection and social welfare. They set us an example for other countries that lower taxes, but what they don't say is that those countries might have a tax mattress that Spain doesn't have at its disposal. They act like healers, promising things they know beforehand that they will not be able to carry out, obviating that those promises are as populist as those of other parliamentary groups that you attack. For my group, it's not the time for advertising slogans. What is really needed is a serious debate about taxation - which will have to be given, yes, in a calm way - in order to achieve a progressive system that is equitable and consistent with the green transition. Of course, we need a greener tax than ever before. As far as expenditure is concerned, Minister, we are clearly faced with expansive budgets, and in this there is a general consensus and we too think so, but that does not mean that there is no fiscal responsibility. These budgets have been announced as the most social in history and policies aimed at young people have been highlighted, which I also believe will have to continue to be promoted, because it is the worst generation stopped, but the fact is that the bulk of the social part of expenditure concentrates essentially on increasing pensions, social measures on the side of expenditure that for my group are unquestionable, since every Government has to aim at social equity in the fiscal sphere. However, we are concerned that this forecast of expenditure will increase over the estimated, basically because more than 50% of that expenditure is indexed to inflation. Moreover, structural public expenditure has increased and part of COVID expenditure will end up being structural - says the AIReF - 40%, so planning will be necessary, on the one hand, to reduce this existing structural deficit and, on the other, to establish the financing that will be needed to cover that structural expenditure. Finally, we must not forget that this necessarily expansive budget, combined with the extraordinary measures taken in connection with the pandemic, has raised public debt considerably, placing it at around 122% of GDP in the second quarter, above the Government's target. This fact, of course, we believe that it should be considered and analysed in order to study alternative ways that prevent debt from strangling present and future economic and social progress. Once again, it cannot and should not be expected that the growth in revenue from increased activity envisaged by the budget will be the only step forward in debt reduction and fiscal consolidation in the medium term. In this regard, we believe that the Next Generation programme, as its name indicates, should also serve to have a new economic model that allows for the creation of sustainable assets necessary to leave a better society and that future generations can also cover that debt. It is therefore necessary to ensure that debt is used to generate sustainable growth. Finally, I would like to make several assessments related to our group's agreements in the Government and also to our agreements with citizens through our electoral programmes. As you well know, Minister, the Basque Nationalist Party has a clear and priority objective: the Basque agenda, the defence of Basque interests in Madrid, and this goes so far as to reach budgetary agreements that improve the lives of Basque citizens. But also, being in solidarity with the rest of the state, which we consider essential, more if it is in a pandemic, and I believe that we have demonstrated this, we have participated in and supported practically all the proposals discussed in this House to respond to the crisis of COVID. However, the truth, Minister, is that these budgets do not leave you in a very good place as regards the investments planned for the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which, again, are relegated, nor as regards the figures for the implementation of the commitments made with our group in this budget in force with regard to - and I will say very clearly - some ministries, but not all of them. Public investment, which is currently key to the economic and complementary growth of the private sector because it stimulates productivity and generates innovation, does not have an adequate reflection for Euskadi in this budget project, rather on the contrary. Actual investments in Euskadi have been reduced with respect to the draft general budgets of 2021, especially with regard to investments in the autonomous agencies of ADIF or Enaire. We have several examples, such as delays in the implementation of the Basque Y agreement, a strategic project, as well as in the Atlantic Corridor and the connection with Europe, with its entry into the Basque capitals underground, or the consignments collected for the Basque airports, which are not sufficient or reflect the real investment needs of the territory to which they belong, which have been obvious despite knowing that they are easily materializable. It is more complicated, of course, to understand why investments in the safety and accessibility of stations and trains disappear. Projects disappear and, consequently, their budget items for elimination of steps at the level on the improvement of accessibility and stations, which in lines like Bilbao-Santander, where the absence of investments and the deterioration of the service for the entire route must be added, is especially serious, when leaving isolated some populations, as Carranza can be. And we no longer just talk about resuming frequencies, we talk about investing in the line, with frequencies adapted to the citizenry and safe, without steps at the level and with accessible stations: a good service of closeness, in short. In any case, today we are discussing the full amendments tabled by different groups. We are not going to support them, because, despite the risks we have commented on, the doubts that we have maintained or expressed about the volatility of the macro table, the plausibility of revenue, the management and exploitation of European funds, which will have to be monitored, the fact is that we need expansionary budgets and investors, this is not the time for fiscal austerity. We need policies that stimulate demand and drive new projects, we need to take advantage of the open environment that Europe has provided us with to accelerate the technological-digital transition, energy-climate, social and health, and to make the most of European funds, apart from rules that shorten investments. That is why we believe that it is important for the State, for all administrations to have new budgets; a difficult task, as has already been said, because it involves accepting the uncertainties mentioned above and achieving a consensus between different groups in this diverse and plural Parliament, in which the Government does not have an absolute majority. That is why, if necessary, dialogue is more necessary than ever, and my group's readiness to do so will be full. But, minister, I also want to be honest. Today - the previous spokesman has also told me - we lack a good stretch to agree on the budgets. We believe that our vote against the amendments as a whole is the starting point for a negotiation, so that we can discuss the discrepancies that we can tackle on the Basque agenda more deeply, but also to promote new transformative investments and try to reverse certain policies in order to move forward in this process of economic transformation that leads us to a new social and environmental contract with clear and concrete actions. We therefore believe that the budgets have room for improvement, and in this regard we will present the partial amendments, in a constructive spirit, of dialogue, negotiation and the search for comprehensive agreements, which is also what citizenship is demanding of us. This is the policy, to speak, to contrast, to negotiate our differences and to agree and now to take advantage of the window of opportunity that Europe has given us to promote a profound transformation that will allow us to resume that path of progress. You said yesterday, Minister: we cannot let this train pass. But I'm going to tell you that we still have a way to go. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u25	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. As always, I am grateful for the tone of your speech, as is the tone of the other speakers and Members of your parliamentary group. I believe that the negotiating capacity, the constructive spirit that always accompanies any relationship that your group maintains with the Government makes it possible de facto that we can make progress and that we can build proposals that may not be well defined in the draft budgets a priori. I am convinced that over the course of the dialogue in the coming days we will be able to correct some of the issues that you consider that the draft budgets do not reflect satisfactorily. We understand - in particular, I always say this and I like to repeat it here in the rostrum - that the Basque Nationalist Party is a priority partner for this government. And what does it mean to be a priority partner? As you can understand, basically, in the dialogue when it comes to agreeing legislative texts, and how much more about a draft budget, which is so important, or any other initiative, any other rule that allows us to move forward in what, humbly, we believe can be a step forward well for the rights and freedoms of all citizens, either to increase the resolutory capacity of public administrations, or to protect health, as has happened in the previous months with the decrees of the state of alarm, or on other issues that we have had to launch on the part of this House, of this Congress, it will always be you who will first be heard, and, if possible, we will reach agreements on the line that you mark, and it is important to be able to say this because, throughout our discussions, probably then, only a few things are transparent. But in the negotiations we have talked about such important issues - as Mr Esteban and other partners are well aware - as the escalation in the price of light and the way in which we will have to deal with this issue, so that households are protected, but also the industrial fabric and small and medium-sized enterprises, and, with particular interest, the electrointensive industry, which is so dependent on energy and therefore cannot be made an element that hinders its competitiveness or growth. Therefore, we will continue to work hand in hand. You know that the third vice-president has a road map that will allow us to move forward in this area. And we were also working with the Ministry of Inclusion in the de facto transfer of minimum living income, as a very important element in setting up the map of rights that Spain has and that we also have to make possible in the Basque Country. I believe that the work has intensified very clearly since the closeness of the adoption of the budget. As I said before to Mr Rufián and I am also commenting now, it is sometimes inevitable that, when we reach the crossroads of the budget, we have to address other matters, which do not necessarily have a direct bearing on the budgetary side but which the parliamentary groups understand are finding an appropriate way of speeding up in their resolution when we deal with this issue. And I believe that, with regard to the agreement reached by the Ministry of Inclusion and its political group on the conditions under which a benefit must be developed that marks a time before and a time after the fight against child poverty - and it had very clear references, and I want to mention it, because you also said it well, because there are times when we are left alone with the things that we do not have or that we do not finish doing completely well - there are issues in our country that are doing very well. In this case, you know that an important part of the inspiration of minimum living income has come from the experience that has been developed in the Basque Country with regard to minimum income, or as it is called in each of the territories. Undoubtedly, we learn from each other and the practical experiences of the autonomous communities are a source I would say that inexhaustible of innovation, encouragement and ability to take note of what is best done in each part and, therefore, we can extrapolate it to the rest of the territory. As you are well aware, it has taken up much of the time of that negotiation, but I believe that the results are frankly satisfactory for all parties. And as you said, we have been talking about other matters which are important from your point of view for the future of the Basque Country and which, as I say, are always in the debate on the budgets or in these negotiations. I share with you, Mrs Sagastizabal, all the reflection you have made on the forecasting of income and what are the challenges on macroeconomic uncertainty we will face in the future. That is why the draft budgets, deliberately, have been prudent in forecasting revenue growth for the coming year. We have not commented on this during these sessions, but I think it is appropriate to incorporate it here, not only because volatility at the moment is one of the predominant rules, but also because we have to be able to accompany the cost of the wholesale energy market over the coming months. I hope that in December the structural measures or impulses we have called for from Europe will be concrete, can be touched and will be tangible. However, if that does not happen, I have always commented that we have preferred a prudent forecast, to accommodate what might be temporary suspension of some of these tax figures, which are a component of the electricity bill, and that, as you know, this year will cost the Spanish Government around $2 billion. And if it is full-time, you will be able to imagine the important collection that we have to preserve, if possible with other measures that allow us to avoid the cost of energy being an element that costs the recovery of our industry and, on the other hand, the Spanish families can pay, on average, as promised by President Sánchez, a similar amount that they were paying, for example, in 2019, a year before the outbreak of this pandemic. I also share with you the concern about how we have to address at European level, I would say, and also with the United States the problem raised in the supply chain, which has a special emphasis on some specific industry in our country. We are particularly concerned about the supplies of chips for the manufacture of cars, which, as we know, are also slowing down production in this type of industry. It is not an isolated fact, it is a fact that happens in other parts of the world and it has to occupy, I hope in particular, the time of the great presidents. He knows that the United States convened an express meeting on the occasion of the G20 summit to discuss the problem of supplies and, therefore, how we can all conjure up so that it can be produced at a higher rate and, on the other hand, so that there are no barriers, especially with the countries with which there is a lesser trade relationship, so that these raw materials can arrive, that they can do so in time for European industry and that production chains are not paralyzed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u27	One second, Minister, please, to see if we can achieve some silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u28	Thank you very much, President. The same applies to any other issues that, at the G20 summit, could be addressed by all the leaders of the different countries. They are elements that escape strictly from the capacity of the national policy or the policy of the Basque Country to correct it and, therefore, among all of us we will have to be able to seek the formula that does not make the recovery in progress slow down due to this difficulty derived, fundamentally, from the shock of supply and demand caused by the health pandemic. I also share with your group, and with you for your words in the rostrum, that we need at this time an expansive tone of the public accounts of all administrations, also of course of the State Administration, so that the public impulse will contribute to making a tractor of private investment and that we will get back to recovery levels in the shortest possible time. As we mentioned in the previous days, it is not just a question of returning to the starting point - that starting point no longer exists - it is a question of being able to regain the vigor in job creation, in economic growth, but to face in parallel the great challenges that we have as a country, challenges that we have shared with the Basque Government, which we have shared with its political formation and which I therefore believe are perfectly identified. We need to channel the European funds and the regular budget so that they can help speed up all these transformations and allow Spain to be in a state of the art or a competitive position that will enable it to overcome the structural problems that our economy has experienced over the past few years, at least in the digital field, where our country has made very good progress in recent years, or in an ecological transition, where also with the help of its group we have established a regulatory framework that allows us to orient our productive model very well with regard to the incorporation of renewable energies, cleaner energies, the capacity also for these value chains to incorporate those elements that will be payable in the future. Those countries that are not prepared to be able to tackle this qualitative leap inexorably will be left behind. The economic incentive, whether through taxation, aid programmes, guidelines and messages, must therefore be directed in the right direction. It would be of no use to preserve what we had if we did not have the capacity to conquer that new future, because consumption habits have to change and we also have to change the way we express that environmental protection. I share with you that all these are and will be important elements to produce in the future. It is also very important to take note of the fiscal consolidation processes inherent in these public accounts - and this must always be emphasized: 5% deficit target; 3.4% fall, 4 points in relation to debt - but the adjustment plans or fiscal consolidation plans have to accompany them to economic recovery. I want to tell you for your peace of mind that I think Europe is very conscious, has learned from what happened in the previous financial crisis, and is that sometimes the withdrawal of stimuli prematurely makes us, in the end, deepen the crises and have no capacity to recover. The process of debate that we will share with your group on how to express fiscal rules for the future, so that flexibility allows us to accompany that recovery, will be a very important debate that we will have to maintain and in which, as I say, we will have to share the final solution. Finally, you were also talking about the ability to maximize European funds, the ability of regional losses - to call them in some way - or the unique losses of each territory to become reality. You know we're trying to push them. We have asked the Autonomous Communities, within all the projects that have been referred, which have been many, to choose three projects that are considered unique by the Autonomous Governments. Yesterday the People's Party made a mockery of this, which probably didn't know what was meant. What was wanted was that it was precisely the territories themselves that underlined those losses that could have a major interest, either because of their tractor capacity, or because they respond to more unique needs that are not covered by other European projects, for whatever reasons; we are working in that direction. We share the view that, of course, European funds must accompany truly transformative projects. It is not a matter of covering current expenditure - which, as you know, is not possible - nor is it a matter of being able to complete projects that are already under way and have difficulty with regular resources. It is about really taking advantage of that economic momentum to address issues that this country would not otherwise have addressed and to strengthen the political agenda that we all already had in mind, how to boost digitization - as I said - ecological transformation, equal opportunities or convergence between the different components of our peoples and cities. You said - and you are right - that the increase in collection for next year should be due to the economic cycle, but we cannot lose sight of the fact that in February we are planning to receive the experts' report on tax reform. It is true what you said that part of the figures that have been incorporated into the draft budgets, such as corporation tax, many years ago the Basque Country launched it with satisfactory results. We are now entering an international debate that I hope will really allow no questions of relocation of some kind of industry because it is sheltered in tax havens or fiscally aggressive territories, as is said in a slightly more orthodox way. On the other hand, let us also be aware that at the moment the capacity of some tax figures - as is the case with corporate tax - is much lower than that of other figures such as IRPF or VAT, and it does not seem appropriate that in this tax figure we are half of the collection we had, for example, in 2008 or 2009, when growth levels are similar. This means that over those ten or fifteen years there have been certain holes in our fiscal environment that have made it necessary to review the performance of this figure in the end. Therefore, our commitment is to do so and, of course, we also discuss it with your group. We share that at this time you cannot enter a downward fiscal spiral, as some political formations are doing. You will be able to share with me, for your exercise of self-government during all these years, that in no way can it be admitted that, while one causes a tax reduction, it asks the Government of Spain to have more money, in turn, causes more transfers at the expense of raising its own taxes. That, of course, is the most contrary to the exercise of fiscal autonomy and fiscal co-responsibility. We therefore share the view that when one takes certain decisions and certain powers he must be consistent to the end and cannot do so in half and ask, in this case, Father State - or Mother State - to be able to solve the problems that populistly they are applying in that tax reduction that does not, of course, lead to an increase in the financing of public services, but quite the contrary. I am aware, Mrs Sagastizabal, that we have to agree in the process of amendments improvements to the draft budgets. I am not going to repeat this because I know that you have underlined all the games that have an impact on the Basque Country. I believe that the spirit of your parliamentary group is to be able to incorporate some additional investment, strengthen some of the projects envisaged and incorporate some new ones. I think you know that you have extended the hand of this Government and of the parliamentary group to be able to reach agreement on each of those works that we know you have stressed with particular interest, regardless of whether, of course, the draft budgets benefit a very large number of people in the Basque Country from the funding of the pension update unit or policy, which we are also sharing the new pension legislation with your group. We will continue to work in this direction. I just want to end up recognizing that capacity for dialogue that you always express. They are hard in the negotiations, I want to say it and I have to say it, because sometimes Mr Esteban projects that hardness in me. We understand each other well, even though it is difficult for us to reach agreement and understanding. We are firm and strong in defending what everyone believes, but the reality and truth is that 99% of the time we have the capacity to reach agreements. I probably think that by giving in more we and you think by giving in more you, but the truth is that in the end we are able to crystallize proposals that allow us to move forward in Spain and also that allow us to move forward in the matter of self-government to the Basque Government itself and in the improvement of the welfare of Basques and Basques, which is what you occupy, and also what occupies this Government. Here remains that provision for dialogue. In these days we will have to talk a lot to improve these public accounts, count on it, and therefore with our hand extended so that we can agree on this draft budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u30	I speak from the seat very briefly. Thank you, minister, for your words. We pick up the glove, we'll see you in this negotiation. You have said that we are tough, you too, but we are always looking for a meeting point which, in the end, is the way: to dialogue and see in which positions we have that common part and, of course, to agree because, as you have said, Europe has given us an opportunity, which we have to take, in order to transform the economy, because that will lead to the improvement of citizenship, both Basque and that of the rest of the territory. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u31	Thank you so much. We move on to the next parliamentary group. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u32	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. Yesterday, during his defence of the General Budgets of the State, he pointed out that we are faced with extraordinary and indispensable budgets. He said more, he said they were accounts to leave the pandemic behind and entangled in a change of era with new paradigms and new policies. This is all literal. Therefore, and given the depth of the point made, what would be discussed in this debate is whether those words are in line with the facts, whether behind the tidal figures - and let us not forget that behind those figures there are people - there are policies determined to recover rights, to eradicate poverty, to make available to all and all material conditions to develop decent lives, or whether, on the contrary, we remain trapped in the same economic paradigms and models that have been sustained with greater or lesser devotion and/or submission by some and other governments of different signs. This Government has now passed the first vote to continue the process leading to a hypothetical approval of the budgets, and it will do so - to approve or to withdraw the amendments altogether today - thanks again to the support of the left-wing sovereignist forces in this House. At Euskal Herria Bildu we express ourselves clearly and want to continue to do so. The reason why we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety is none other than our sincere will to create conditions conducive to the achievement of a good agreement, an agreement that improves the lives of Basques and Basques, as well as the social and working majority of the rest of the State. That, and not another, is our will. That, and not another, is our goal in this budget negotiation. We have always acted responsibly and I will confess to you that we have acted more with common sense or class instinct than with a sense of state, which I recognize you already lack, but we will continue to do so. We have demonstrated this on countless occasions and we will act once again, but our responsibility cannot and should not be understood as a blank cheque, because our responsibility and our commitment is to Basque citizens, not to this Government. Let no one offend, but we only owe ourselves and submit ourselves to them and to them, to the people of our country, of Euskal Herria. That is why we also want to make it very clear that from now on and until the final approval, or not, of the State's General Budgets, the government will have to win our votes, reaching a good agreement on the economic and social issues that we have raised. And here perhaps it is the only time that the dwindling orange force is right when it says that we are insatiable; we will be insatiable until rights are recovered and dignity is restored in people's lives. Because our demands are demands whose only objective is to improve the economic, social and labour conditions of Basque citizens as well as to improve the lives of the workers of this State. Because we probably don't share the same people or the same nation, but we do belong to the same class. That is our goal and that is why we continue to work and negotiate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and of Podemos, we do not like the current budgets as they are today. They will understand, after listening to the intervention, that it is obvious because even recognizing the effort in some matters - and we recognize it - we lack greater ambition to reverse the cuts in rights that different governments have imposed on the working class for decades. Because they increase departures in virtually all departments is true, and it is not bad; it is not bad except with the exception that they will understand of the Royal House, of the Interior or of Defense. But beyond that budget increase in all budget items, are the foundations for a real transformation of the state and its rupture with the socio-economic model that we bear? Or is more public money being injected without questioning the economic scaffolding that we have endured and suffered from the night of time? Unfortunately, we believe that we are opting for the second. And we say unfortunately because we believe that in the historical context that we have been going through for a few years now what it touches is breaking ties with a predatory and unjust model by nature. And this does not become just a desire or a desire of the left-wing people, but I would say that it is almost an obligation, and it is not only to respond and obey our ideals, to what we say we are, but above all and fundamentally by a pure instinct of survival. Because look, ladies and gentlemen of the government, they, the right-wing, of course, want to destroy everything, they want to dismantle any initiative of public power. They have made their positions and intentions very clear in the amendments tabled to this budget: more precarious work for the working class. And I say and say working class and not middle class, as you slipped on no less than ten occasions yesterday, because I believe that the middle class is nothing but an invention, an expectation induced by those who want to make them believe that the social elevator is within everyone's reach and that through meritocracy we can all be equal. So, as I say to you, when you look at the proposals on the right only see more precarious work for the working class, more cuts in public services, Austrian backpacks, perpetuate inequality, widen the gender gap and continue to destroy the planet. They impose more taxes for the rich, worse pensions for all and less social protection for the whole citizenry. In short, fewer rights for the majority and more privileges for the elites. That's the summary of your project. By mere democratic conviction they will face us, because to the right, and above all to those who they represent, to the elites, democracy annoys them and that is the real invitation we have on the table. It is not even a context of confrontation between the left and the right in classical terms, we are in a confrontational term of defence of democracy or of ending democracy. Because democracy for the elites has become an obstacle to continuing to reap benefits at the speed at which they do so, and that is why we will defend democracy in that struggle, because ending democracy is ending the possibility of realising our dreams. And being this way, feeling it the way we feel it, you will understand your right-wing lordships that as long as they don't let us dream of us and we won't let them sleep. Because they want to perpetuate the model of inequality, of the dismantling of the public, of precariousness, of labor exploitation, of more gags and less protection. They want a public power without initiative but with sufficient financial resources to vamp when they want it or when they need it. And in the face of this, it is not worth lukewarm measures, it is not worth doing the same thing that we have been doing so far, because in order to achieve that just recovery that was discussed yesterday, and that you repeated throughout the whole debate but that you practice - and I regret it - something less, you need structural measures that reverse the predatory model that installed the right; you need to recover the snatched and expand social conquests permanently. It is not worth noting that we are taking extraordinary measures to deal with exceptional situations, such as the default of light or the inability to pay for the mortgage, but rather to turn the right to housing and the right to basic supplies guaranteed into a norm, a constant, something permanent in the action of a government that is said to be progressive. As I said, it is necessary to recover what has been stolen and to expand these social achievements and, therefore, we believe that, together with these budgets, it is the reforms that we will discuss and vote on in the coming weeks and months that will really mark the direction of this Government, and in marking the direction of this Government, they will also mark the direction of this State. We have said it many times: we and we do not value words, we value facts. We don't have enough promises, we want action. Because it is appropriate not to forget, this budget - and it was also remembered yesterday by the Minister - is the most investor budget in history, but it is done in a given context. And I want to stop at some data or elements that help to better understand the context we are talking about. I want to talk about the percentage of the population of the Spanish State that never drops by 18%, moving in the band between 18% and 22% of the 47 million; that is, we are talking about several million people in the Spanish State who from 1995 to 2021 live in what is called poverty or the severe risk of poverty. Which state that wants to be just, which state that says it is democratic and that it wants to redistribute wealth can bear the democratic filter of holding that more than 7 million people have to live permanently in poverty or at risk of exclusion? Because that has been a constant be there or there has been no growth. It has been a constant in the years of economic prosperity and in the years of economic crisis; always, at all times, in the economic model that prevails in the Spanish State there have been intolerable pockets of poverty for anyone who aspires to true social justice. Poverty and social exclusion in opulent societies is not just an anomaly, it is an aberration, it is the finding that aporophobia - hatred of the poor - exists, and that is a historic urgency that needs to be resolved. One cannot move towards a more just society with rates of people living in poverty or at such high risk, and that data is official data. I'll give you another data, another reality - there's a phone out there that keeps ringing, an alarm - As I said, I'll give you another data: the rate of youth unemployment remains unsustainable - I don't know where the alarm is from -.... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u33	One second, Mr. Matute. I take the opportunity to ask again for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u34	You have to do like in the movies, turn off your cell phone or put it in airplane mode, right? [[Laughter]] As I said, the rate of youth unemployment remains unsustainable, another fact that we should not forget when we talk about debates on General State Budgets. The Spanish state has 37.1% youth unemployment, the euro area's European average is 17.3%. And that fact challenges us all and everyone and should take us away from any triumphalist analysis of this budget or any other initiative, let us be in favour or against it, especially if we consider that the dramatic youth unemployment rate is accompanied by a labour market that incorporates them with precarious wages and with such high rates of temporality that it prevents them from thinking of having a planned future, of having a minimally thought-out life project. And the only thing that he finds is that today this state or this country - if you prefer - is not a country for young people. And I will talk about another fact - which should also be taken into account when we talk about budgets - which is that of the wage gap between women and men. Today in the Spanish State there is still around 20%, exactly 19.51 %, which means that on average women earn about 5000 euros a year less than men, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics. It is a painful and unjust reality that is eaten precisely with women, with those who mostly sustain the pulse of life and care also in difficult times. Just look at the streets, we see it in Gipuzkoa when we see the women and workers of the residences in a conflict for more than two years to defend decent working conditions. And that is the best expression for those who sometimes do not understand some terminology of what patriarchal capitalism means. I conclude with another fact: we are witnessing a short circuit of the global market that is going to go further, and it is not worth forgetting. When we talk about a new era, we have to understand that this new era is marked by a short circuit in the global market, where the extraordinary is less and less, because it is going to be less and less extraordinary for us to come to terms with time, blackouts, shortages, difficulties, because the effects of climate change are also manifested here more often, and I would say more virulently. If we do not understand the finite nature of the planet's resources, if we believe that the planet's finite resources can give both of themselves and for us to continue extracting everything we want - or everything that global capitalism wants - all we will do is accelerate the path to destruction and collapse. That's why it happens. That is why everything is short-circuited when we see that the interconnection, specialization and supply that were part of the dogma of global capitalism come down in such a sudden, hasty and painful way for people's pockets, whether in bills of light or in lack of basic supplies. Either we stop growing in any way and at any price or there will be no future for anyone. Against this backdrop, what we propose is a more determined, stronger, more sustained public intervention with a clearer orientation of rupture with the current model, with the current paradigm. We believe that it is necessary to do so in different fields, some of which refer directly to the General Budgets of the State and others which are collateral. I'll quote one of them. One has to do with tax reform. Deep tax reform is needed. He has already said that he is waiting for the conclusions of the expert committee, but things can already be said in the budgets which point out that, for example, a tax should be imposed on big fortunes, on banking, on large companies and companies, beyond the 15% that is now being raised in the world. Nor do we understand that there is no tax on plastic packaging and no tax on the storage or incineration of waste. Now that everyone is boasting of high climate awareness and looks at COP 26 and knows where Glasgow is, it would also be good for us to understand that much more needs to be done also in the area of taxation or environmental or green taxation in this reality. I am likely to be able to argue as an answer that this is not included because it is going to be dealt with in the waste law, but it is that the same logic could be returned by me, because they have included other taxes such as the reduction of tax subsidies to entities engaged in housing rental, falling from 85 to 40%, which would also have to come into the housing law that we are going to discuss in a few months' time, and which has not been an obstacle or obstacle to including it now. The tax on plastic packaging or waste incineration could then have been included. What is clear now is that we know who has recovered well from the crisis: the rich and the big companies. This week it was known that the 100 richest people in the state already accumulate more than 153 575 million euros, increasing in a single year - the year of the fateful pandemic - their profits by more than 26 billion euros. It is worth remembering, again, since we talk about money, that Endesa in 2020 won 1394 million euros, that Iberdrola won 3610 million euros of net profit in 2020, that BBVA has won 3300 million in what goes from year to third quarter or that Santander, in its first semester, closes accounts with profits of 3570 million euros. [[The lady]] Be strong with the powerful, because doing so with the weak is very easy, but it is also unfair. It's much better to be strong with the powerful and make them pay what they have to pay. Not only because they can, but also because they must. They also have to act much more decisively on pensions, and I am also clear here: we are not going to accept cuts or tightening conditions on pensions. We will not accept to delay the retirement age. We are going to agree to extend the contribution period and we are not going to agree to penalise early retirements. Because it is true that there is a very large investment effort in pensions in this budget, we recognize it, but it is no less true that that investment effort can be overshadowed by the rise in prices. That is to say, the increase in pensions can cause even in spite of that effort to be devalued because the price of things has risen considerably more than the proposed increase in budgets, and there is something more that can and should be done. There is also something more that needs to be done about European funds, because you, like us and us, know that there is a growing sense among citizens that large companies, those that have not had losses but profits during the pandemic, and that therefore little or nothing has to be recovered, are going to be the big business pickers of European investment funds, of European aid funds. That is profoundly unfair, because it relegates the social economy to public administrations and municipalities for the benefit of large corporations. It is obscene that consultants play to be judge and part in the distribution of funds, which are hired by public administrations to fight the funds and, at the same time, by large companies to obtain the funds. That would have to get stuck. I also want to talk about labour reform and the labour market. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have one thing clearly, because I am clearly speaking. If you do not repeal labour reform, if you do not comply with your word and with the agreements you have signed, you are most likely to lose the elections, and you will be solely responsible for the right to rule by failing to keep promises. Neither a very important part of citizenship nor us and we care about who, we care about what. What matters to us is that the labour reform, all the aspects that have curtailed the rights of women workers, all of them, must be complied with and repealed. We stress this, all of us, because we hear about reforming, balancing, improving, updating, modernising and an endless number of euphemisms of the rich Spanish language, not to say abrogating all the harmful aspects, all of them. That is not simply to curtail the temporality or simplification of contracts - with which we very much agree, let alone by way of passage - but also to recover the prevalence of sectoral agreements, ultraactivity, redundancy payments that are brutally cut with the labour reform of the People's Party, salaries of processing or the necessary administrative authorization of the EREs. If anything we have seen over the course of this year, it has been court proceedings against companies that have decided to carry out employment regulation dossiers in an absolutely tortuous manner. And in order for no one else to have to go through the journey that the workers of Tubacex, PCB, Petronor, Arcelor or many others have gone through, it would also be good to put a stop to this already. All this must be done and we are very much afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of Podemos, that this is not a priority for the government right now, that what they propose is a partial and not a total repeal of all the harmful aspects of labour reform. Why? Because they pretend that the employer gives them permission to do so and tells them how far they can go, and what you point out as social dialogue we understand as the employer veto. Well, remember that you have the social, trade union and political majority for the repeal, but we warn you that if you reduce the scope of the repeal of the labour reform and of the new labour protection measures to have or obtain the approval of the CEOE, you may lose the support of the left-wing groups in this House. The CEOE has a lot of power, but it does not have the power to press Euskal Herria Bildu's five votes in this Chamber, and the five votes of Euskal Herria Bildu will continue to defend the complete and complete repeal of the labor reform and will continue to defend the rights and dignity of the working class no matter how much it weighs, bothers or hurts in the pocket of the CEOE's and businessmen. Don't play it, keep your word and your agreements and we'll all get a lot better, including you. That is why we warn you not to give the support of Euskal Herria Bildu, because there are still issues to negotiate and agree to correct, which we believe should not be an obstacle for a government that is said to be left-wing and progressive. We'll be reasonable, but we'll be demanding. We again show our willingness and responsibility to reach a good agreement that will allow us to continue to make progress on the structural issues we have pointed out, an agreement that will keep open the opportunity to set a new course...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u35	Mr. Matute, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u36	... in our country and in this state. Don't miss it. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Matute, I'm going to tell you something that I'm sure you'll start shaking the Members of the right-wing bench. I thank him for the tone of his speech, as much as it bothers some people if I say so, and I also thank him for his willingness to reach agreement on the budget. Mr Matute, we are already concluding this debate and I really say to you that it is not necessary for all those who rise to the rostrum to remind this Government that showing readiness to budgets is not a blank cheque. We have it very clear, we sweat it every day. [[Applauds]] That would be a matter for others who were neither interested in nor interested in the adoption of the draft budgets. I can assure you that this progressive government - it also said earlier about Mr Rufián's intervention - sweats the shirt every time it comes out on the playground. We have to fight every article, every law and every rule to have the support of the majority of this House. I can therefore assure you that the danger of us trusting that others will support us does not exist, and I believe that this can be fully shared by the Minister for the Presidency here. Indeed, the draft budgets have a clear transversal aspiration within the different expenditure lines; a progressive vocation and an inspiration of the left that allows to approximate some expectations in relation to the recovery of rights and freedoms, further strengthening of public services, ensuring that vulnerable people will be able to have an opportunity to enter the labour market and that they do not have a cut in vital supplies, either through the Thermal Social Bonus, or through a housing policy that allows them to maintain affordable rental prices so that they are not forced to leave an area so that the owner can put an impossible price on them in order to be able to access it. In short, I believe that you and your political group will be able to share perfectly with me that this draft budget has an aspiration for the social majority and a vocation to meet the demands and needs of a large part of the population, although, of course, from a progressive perspective that can be the connecting element for agreeing on these public accounts. I am telling you this because, both your group and this Government, we are fully aware of what separates us. It separates us our conception from the state, the vertebration that we consider to have Spain, our constitutional bets... We know that, Mr. Matute. How important we can agree on a part of the policies that, by putting people at the centre, allow us to venture and advance that the accounts will have an impact on the improvement of young people, on the improvement of culture, on the improvement of housing, on the improvement of all those rights that we are encountering with difficulties, not only because of their normative expression, but to accompany them with resources. We have never thought that we are in possession of the truth, but we do believe that it represented the majority of the citizens, because they have decided to do so through their vote in the ballot box. I therefore believe that this is reflected in the draft budgets. You said he didn't like to talk about middle class; I did. I believe that the draft budgets bring a figure to which I referred yesterday and it is very important to understand the size and depth of it; it is related to the fact that there is a sort of indirect income envisaged in the draft budgets of EUR 5542 per citizen, if we do not count transfers to territorial administrations and European funds. This allows, Your Honor, that a large part of the families do not have to cover their savings in order to respond to a disease if it occurs, in order to pay for their children's university studies - if they have the capacity and talent to develop that trajectory - or if they have a family member in vulnerable conditions. Imagine, in that case, the volume of resources that could not be put at the disposal of consumption, which, in my humble opinion, allows us to take a leap in the social ladder and refer to that broad-based middle class, which is the real engine of everything - of our economy and our ability to enjoy better and greater rights - and which is, in short, what allows us to increase our welfare levels. That is why I was saying yesterday - and I regret that you do not share it with me - that these are budgets designed precisely for that middle class, which has a very broad base, and that they must allow not only to respond to the vulnerable - who, of course, but to aspire, Mr Matute, to the public services of our country being a pride for the middle class, because they pay them with their taxes and legitimize them with their use. The guarantee that the vulnerable have good public services is that they are used by the vast majority of citizens; otherwise, it would imply that some, by making their particular account, might prefer - as the right does - to have tax exemptions for private health insurance, for private English studies or for school books. [[Rumors]] They are two alternative models and I prefer to opt for a model of universality of public services so that they are a pride for the whole of society. In short, when someone has a serious illness - you know, Mr Matute - he goes to the public service because it is a guarantee of greater technological capacity, of greater training or of greater healing capacity. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u40	Mr Matute, I know the classics you don't share from the budgets: Royal House, Defense or Interior. Mr Rufián was trying to explain to him a while ago why the defence budget is being reinforced: for the preservation of jobs, Mr Matute, of shipyards and of industry - that is very important and, although you do not think it has sufficient value, this government does - as well as the modernization and innovation engine that the Armed Forces bring to the whole country. These are important elements to take into account, but I am not going to stand in this part because it has already been discussed. You said that you believed that there was not enough emphasis on public accounts for the change of the productive model or for the framework of labour relations that we need in the future. I would like to say, Mr Matute, as I have told the other groups, that the draft budgets do not exhaust the legislative capacity of the Government or a legislature. A draft budget is a weapon, another instrument - although it is not the same as others, because it is probably more powerful in terms of transformation capacity - that has to be accompanied by other regulations. You were talking about labor reform. Indeed, the elements that will allow us to correct the mistakes of previous labour reforms and look to the future to modernise the framework of labour relations in a work world that is already different - much more so after the pandemic - and in which we have been pointing out many of the progress that will have to be part of the new charters of workers' rights and of the new relations with business organisations. We will go through all this, because it was not intended that the draft budgets would capture all these aspirations, but merely accompany through the numbers and the definition of priorities what are the most important challenges we have to face in the future. Among those challenges, there is one that you have made very clear: the fight against inequality. I was saying, Mr Matute, that I thought that there was not enough emphasis on the draft budgets in the fight against inequality. I can tell you that if there has been an element that has been taken care of with particular interest on the part of these public accounts, it has been precisely the fight against inequality; above all, Mr Matute, since the implementation of the minimum living income - which I believe we do not give it enough value, because the speed of events sometimes does not allow us to explain routinely the measures that we have already put in place -, which I believe it has marked and which will continue to mark, to the extent that we continue to deepen in it, a before and a after in the fight against inequality and very specifically in the fight against child poverty, which has always been a priority for the President. These budgets update and increase by 3 % the provisions for minimum living income and update the assessment of this income in parallel with minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions, suffering from this revaluation. In addition, you know that in the process of processing the changes in minimum living income we have also incorporated a reinforcement of EUR 100 per dependent child, precisely so that families who receive that minimum living income - and 800 000 people - can take care of the opportunities of the younger people, because, as you well know, poverty is a determinant of human development, especially when it occurs at very early stages of life such as childhood and adolescence. We share that it is necessary to protect minors in these circumstances and, therefore, I do believe that this draft budget clearly combats inequality, not only through redistributive policies that are also envisaged in all government action - including the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage - but also through the protection of children and adolescents. I invite you to read the annex accompanying this draft budget, which sheds a lot of light on how, in most of the items, 15% of the expenditure is aimed precisely at protecting our children and protecting adolescents. [[Rumors]] I can share, Mr Matute, that the unemployment rate of our young people is entrepreneurship and unsustainable. I believe that this government has put it in the centre since the first day. We are working very intensively on the elements that we believe affect that youth employment rate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u41	Excuse me, Minister. I have to ask you again, please, to keep quiet. There is a rumor that does not allow the speaker to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u42	President, we shall now conclude this debate. As I told you, youth unemployment rate. I believe that the reasons that make our country bear higher rates are well known. We have put a lot of emphasis on training. I have already commented throughout my speeches that education is not a policy for us anymore, but a policy that is a star of this Government. The specific part of vocational training has an allocation that has not had previous budgets and we will continue to develop it throughout the legislature, because we know that we have been able to guide part of the European funds to strengthen the capacity for new qualifications to appear in the labour market so that there are no young people left without studying the specialty for which they feel a vocation because the public system does not offer a volume of suitable places. We plan to create 200,000 places as a result of this proposed budget. We therefore hope that this will have a direct impact on youth unemployment, as will the revision of training contracts, which will also be part of all the labour reform we are working on. On the other hand, there are tax subsidies and subsidies on contributions for the recruitment of young people. All of them are instruments, ladies and gentlemen, which I believe are aimed at improving one of the problems that is of greatest concern to this Government, which is youth unemployment. In any case, it must be said that some measures are already taking effect. We have dropped that unemployment rate - I think I recall - by 7 points compared to the previous EPA, but it is clearly insufficient. Therefore, we will have to employ ourselves thoroughly so that we can definitely overcome this problem. I share, Your Honor, the need to bridge the pay gap between men and women. You said that the draft budgets did not bring any action in this regard. It is probably not the most appropriate rule to correct those elements and we will have to continue working on the other rules that the Government will bring to this House. You were talking about the climate change bet. You don't think she's ambitious enough. There are some who consider it too ambitious and others consider it unambitious. This government is certainly a green government that has wanted to make climate change policy one of its main levers for transformation, but it wants, Mr Matute, to make this transition fair: to reach all territories, to be acceptable to our industry and, if possible, to make it more competitive. That will have costs over these years of transition that we will have to go along with the set of public authorities, but we will also have to direct citizens as individuals regarding their consumption habits, how they understand how respect for the environment is not only compatible with progress, but that there will be no civilized society and progress if we are not able to leave a green planet for future generations. You were talking about plastics and waste. It is true that they are accompanying the Climate Change Act. In any case, if we had speed and procedures were to be speeded up, I also do not rule out the possibility that they could be incorporated. You were also talking about pensions. It is an obsession of this Government that the pensions of our elders are sustainable, because they are sustainable for the future. To that end, we are addressing fundamental changes, including the establishment of sources of funding to ensure that the State takes over what we have come to call inappropriate expenditures. As you are well aware, in this draft budget I think I would remind you that the transfer to social security by the State to make our elderly quiet is increased to 18,346 million euros. In this way, this Government of Progress makes sustainable its security for the future and also its expectation of revaluing pensions, which for the first time are not incorporated into the draft budgets, but separate. This is magnificent news, because they will not depend on the agreement of a specific year or they will not depend on the government in office. In the future, in order for someone not to revalue pensions under the CPI, he will have to come to this House and change a law that guarantees it. Those who are tempted to do so will therefore face serious difficulties. That's how we shield pensions for the future. I am not going to comment, Mr Matute, on the volume of investments envisaged in this draft budget for the Basque Country. Earlier, in our response to the Basque Nationalist Party, we have commented that throughout the amendment process we will be ready to listen to your proposals so that they can provide solutions and items that allow us to enrich these public accounts. So, Mr Matute, I would like to place you on this. I insist that, in the spirit of dialogue, despite our differences and our differences, there are certainly meeting points where we can build the foundations that allow Spanish society, and also Basque society, to make these budgets a necessary instrument for their life to improve in the future and, above all, for the expectations of our young people to be gradually fulfilled. I am in favour of this, and I hope I can count on the approval of your parliamentary group at the end of this procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I do not intend to use these five minutes for a debate on the concept of middle class. I think our positions are clear. I don't believe in the middle class, I don't think it exists, I've told you before. In any case, I think it would be good for those of us who are skeptical in this matter - because everyone may be wrong - to explain to us what that impoverished middle class is, because, if it is an impoverished middle class, it has ceased to be a middle class and then it is no longer appropriate to speak of it as such. Even more, I'd like someone to tell me what pay tables determine when you move from being a working class to being a middle class and when you're a pariah or an impoverished middle class. But, as I say, I do not want to waste time in that debate. There is one thing that has caught my attention and I have to say it; if not, I would not be faithful to myself. There are ways to defend the need for a defence budget. There are; I may not share them, but there are. But to claim the ability to sustain jobs is one of the most common that could be heard here, because they are paid for being unproductive. I hope no one wants the soldiers to be productive. We're paying them to be unproductive. This does break the rules of the market, at least as we have known them for two hundred years. I also understand that the argument of holding jobs can be used to keep the Royal House, right? We'll have to keep paying them. But, as I was saying at first - and I think it was one of the important things and it's what I want to talk about - we care more about what the who. You have said, our differences, whether they are insurmountable or not, are enormous in many matters, but we are willing to make an effort to get close to what; and what has much to do with the examples I have given you, which were not taken by chance. I haven't even looked for the most catastrophic data to say that you have to do much more than you do. I have looked for structural data that show that the policies that have been practiced in the Spanish State for decades - policies that you will surely see well in some cases, because they have been launched by your own party at different stages of government - have not served to eradicate neither poverty nor inequality nor the wage gap nor the lack of horizon and future for young people and not even for the paradigm shift towards a more sustainable model. In short, with these examples, what he sought and intended was to point out that the problem is in the model. The problem is not how much money we put into the model to alleviate the injuries that one sector of the population or another may have as a result of pulling out. It is the very reality of the economic model that we suffer that determines that people must be excluded from the system so that they can continue to feed back their battery of indecent benefits from my point of view. That is why I have taken these four examples, although I could have taken others. I know we still have differences there, and nothing happens either, but it's just that I'm still a Marxist and I have to see things and look at them this way, not another way. In any case - and I finish - I also thank you for the tone. You told me you don't need every time we go up to this rostrum let's just say it's not a blank check. I'd like to believe we don't have to, but we already have last year's experience. Last year we saw how we were grateful for the tone and how it was said that we were going to have a budget debate that was almost going to satisfy everything and, in the end, it was very difficult for us to reach an agreement. Since we do not want that agreement to cost us much or not to be good, because we are not asking for anything for Euskal Herria Bildu, but everything for the working class, what we ask is that you understand that this is not a blank check. It was nothing but a reminder. I thank you for the profusion of data that you have been giving both yesterday and today. I have had a great deal of insight into this budget. Each one stays with what has seemed more or less striking to him. I was strongly drawn to the attention - and it seemed very good to me - that it should appear in the debate, because you introduced it, the need to implement policies to promote reading. Don't think that, when I say that this drew my attention powerfully, I do it because I thought I was going to touch something by promoting reading that I'm getting at least one person in this Chamber; I say it because I really think it's good for culture to occupy a place and a space. But I also believe - and I finish this - that it is good that we understand that patches do not help solve a disease as serious as we have and that it has to do with the economic model with which we would like this government to dare to break, because all the data I have pointed out are a historical series since 1995. Surely, all the Governments that have been in existence since 1995 have said that they are putting in place measures to put an end to it. The reality in this case gives me reason and, unfortunately, it has not ended with it, then the same problem is not in the measures, but in the model. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u46	I will speak very quickly, Madam President. Mr Matute, of course, as I said at the outset, the debate on budgets cannot exhaust all the political discussions that we need to develop over the course of the parliamentary term. I firmly believe in the capacity and empowerment of the middle class. We can discuss it one day if it seems convenient to you, but I was only taking the floor to highlight two things. The first is that when I was talking about the need to look at budgets and also defence budgets from the perspective of job preservation, I was not saying any eccentricity. I was basically referring to the shipyards, Your Honor, to the places where the construction of the equipment is done. I was not referring, of course, to public employees. I simply wanted to make it clear because I think it is very important that we take note of the modernization of all our equipment and the ability to bring innovation that the Army and Defence are developing to all areas of society. All this, of course, with the aspiration that you mentioned in the rostrum that there is no need to mobilize resources for the defence of national security. However, they contribute to the creation of knowledge so that it can be extrapolated to other very important areas of citizens' daily lives. I conclude by telling you, Your Honor, that our capacity for dialogue is sometimes inexhaustible and exhausting. We'll keep arguing and we'll keep talking. There are some issues that do not end with the draft budgets, which will be laws that enter this House and therefore we will have an opportunity to capture them. Now we are talking about that resources can accompany a fair recovery, that they can recover citizens' rights and that, ultimately, they can build a Spain with a future and that our young people and culture are driving our economy and driving our dynamism. That is what we are on and that is what we are voting on in these budgets. As I was telling you, we never have the feeling of a white check; I tell you again and I can assure you. We will have to keep talking over the course of the period of amendments, and I am sure that, in the end, we will be able to count on your affirmative vote on these budgets. I'm counting on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Now you do, Mrs. Montero. With this last intervention we put an end to this debate of amendments to all the general budgets of the 2022 state. I would like to begin by speaking about the importance and relevance of this law, the most important, the vertebral law of government action for an entire exercise. As a result of this law, numerous legislative and impact initiatives have been launched to further the development of our country. In a comprehensive, thorough and detailed way, Minister Montero, on yesterday's day and today's day, has deepened each and every one of the lines of action of the Government and with every luxury of detail, shaping actions in the main sphere, and is that 6 out of every 10 euros of these General State Budgets of 2022 go to social spending, a very important impact that somehow makes very clear the level of compliance of this Government, because the government led by Pedro Sánchez fulfills what it promises. The measures that this Government has taken in an exceptional situation caused by COVID-19, which has caused a shock and a terribly negative impact on our society at all levels and in all areas, we can also contrast them - then we will talk about contrasts - with the response to the crisis that began in 2008. And I want to tell the leader of the opposition that, in his exhibition of oratory and lack of rigour, yesterday he transferred a lot of false information, not to mention everything. Indeed, the negative impact cuts for our country began in 2012, when the People's Party was already ruling. [[applause]] The contrast with the action of this Government is that this Government is fulfilling, in an exceptional situation, it is fulfilling. How do you do it? Raising the interprofessional minimum wage, revaluing pensions according to the CPI, adopting legislative initiatives of coverage, social shield, protection, with tremendous scope for our society with ERTEs. The Government is well aware of the efforts that have been made to address this exceptional situation and that it will not collapse the reality of our country. But the most worrying of all - it entered fully into it - is the absolute irresponsibility of the leader of the opposition Pablo Casado. While we were living in an exceptional situation, our President of the Government was leaving himself behind in Europe to achieve a positive impact plan for the recovery of our country and for the entire 27 of the European Union. And what did Mr. Pablo Casado devote his free time to? Put sticks on the wheel. This is what we live in during the negotiation period of the largest impact plan, EUR 750 billion in which the European Union accesses capital markets so that Spain has EUR 140 billion between repayable and non-repayable funds. And where has the People's Party been? We were left with the cold blood when Mr Casado went to Berlin on his last visit to say that he supported the European funds. False, absolutely false. [[Applauds]] False, because the negotiation was not boycotted, but slipped into Europe that the Spanish Government was lying to. Was the Government of Spain lacking in the truth? Ten highlights and a notable one is the evaluation of the project submitted by Spain to the European Union in relation to recovery funds. That's the contrast. We therefore wonder what the People's Party is doing and what the opposition leader, Pablo Casado, is doing to bring something positive to our country. Yesterday we slipped here certain impact and outreach initiatives, such as Beckham law or fast track for businesses. Of course, it's completely undrawn. Another very worrying thing is the data on the unemployment that Pablo Casado draws here. I think we're going to have to give up the INE and go directly to the opposition leader to give us the unemployment data. Yesterday he said that self-employed people did not count on unemployment indicators, neither those who were in ERTE nor public employees, and that gave us tremendous unemployment data. What rules of play do Mr. Married set for determining unemployment and unemployment indicators in our country? You lie systematically, and the worst of all is that you point to the government. They are irresponsible to unsuspected limits, and Spain does not deserve that irresponsibility, it does not deserve it. And it continues with that hemorrhaging of falsehoods talking about Spain's bankruptcy. What are they based on, what are they based on to say that Spain is bankrupt? At the risk premium? In the government of Mariano Rajoy it was 400 points and currently it is 64. Is that the indicator on which Pablo Casado is based to talk about Spain's bankruptcy? Or is it based on the number of unemployed? Because another reliable data that slides is that of 4 million, that of 5 million or that of 3 million, depending on the interests, when the reality is that we are in 3.2 million, never in 4, as the leader of the opposition dropped here yesterday. It is also true that they do not take account of the fact that tax rules within the European Union have become more flexible in order to deal precisely with this exceptional situation. We can therefore say that if Spain is bankrupt, as the leader of the opposition determines, the whole of the European Union is also bankrupt. That's the reality. There are very delicate aspects that this irresponsible opposition is raising within the framework of the European Union and outside the European Union. Yesterday they also spoke of Algeria and Morocco with absolute irresponsibility. And those data that constantly go by drawing a scenario of Spain that does not exist within the framework of the European Union cause blush and do nothing but draw a leader of the opposition who is outside his party in the European Union and who does not serve the sense of state. They have no sense of state, and they don't give them any modesty. Even the citizens of our country, which deserves absolute respect, expect something from the People's Party, a party which has ruled Spain and which is expected to have a high eye and reach far-reaching agreements and pacts for the benefit of our citizens. But that's not happening. We expect absolutely nothing from a People's Party that doesn't hold its shoulder when we need it the most. These budgets have a clear vocation to positively impact on speeding up economic recovery. You, in that dynamic of extreme confrontation and daily contradictions, were talking about vaccination. We have reached 90% of the full vaccination schedule, but you said that it would take us four years to reach the entire vaccinated population. Another aspect to consider is unemployment, the pacts and the recovery plan. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are tired. Citizenship expects a lot more than you're doing. We know absolutely nothing of what awaits us with the People's Party in the coming years, but I assure you that we have not reached the equator of the legislature. They did not accept, they did not understand, they did not interpret the results of the polls in 2009 and today they do not interpret them either, because the sentences are repeated. Do not forget what happened in 2018, the exemplary ruling of the National Audience for systematic corruption of the People's Party, which has placed them in opposition. [[applause]] They respect the will of the citizenry and respect the action of the Government. Compromise with Spain and assume once they are in the opposition and that being there requires commitment to work and responsibility, not only to attack the Government, but not to attack the President of the Government. Do something, make some input, because they have their voters and citizens expect much more from those they have voted for. We ask for exemplaryness, commitment, dedication, and we are not finding it in the People's Party. Because all he knows how to do is lie, defame, defame Spain, carry the misinformation as a great asset of his opposition and, worst of all and never before seen, leave the image of Spain very badly abroad. That's what we're used to and the impression of the opposition leader. What characterizes it is to leave Spain badly where it goes, in Europe and outside Europe. That pinito that he did yesterday in relation to Morocco also did so in relation to the crisis in Ceuta, in an exercise of enormous sense of state and commitment to our country, with our borders, with loyalty to the Government, with those previous meetings, facilitating, precisely days before the avalanche suffered with more than ten people in just over forty-eight hours. Yesterday Spain was allowed to take responsibility for the negotiations between Algeria and Morocco. But what does it have to do with the State's General Budgets? What does Mr. Married say? What's your position? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are on time. We have not reached the equator of the legislature, they are in time to correct that drift of confrontation. Seek mechanisms that contribute to the action of the Government, seek mechanisms that help citizens get out of the situation in which they find themselves. There will be the Government of Spain committed to the maximum. Hypocrisy is the term he used yesterday, Pablo Casado. Hypocresis is the term we can use with the action of the opposition leader. It was based on erroneous employment data, as previously commented, but the Minister of Finance commented very well that 9 billion was the last error in the forecast for the collection of Mariano Rajoy's last budget. And they come here to teach us lessons. Obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, they give us lessons in terms of corruption, in terms of budgets, in terms of social policy, in terms of economic policy. That's what they do. Now, work, what is said to work and come with serious, rigorous, hard-working proposals, committed to Spain, nothing at all. Not a single proposal has been made to improve the State's general budgets. [[Applauds]] Not a single proposal. Not one. Not a single proposal. [[Applauds]] I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as they come here to talk about an agreement with Bildu in exchange for the release of prisoners, if they know that the release of prisoners is decided by the judges. Are you familiar with this? Of course, they don't know about the independence of powers in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u50	Or are you aware that the Second Room of the Supreme dominates it through the back door? That's the maximum you have, isn't it? Because they respect absolutely nothing, not even court sentences. They don't respect what they don't care about. On the other hand, since they point both to Esquerra and to the agreements with Esquerra Republicana, I would ask the absent Mr. Casado - where is Mr. Casado?; yesterday constantly repeated this term - where it is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u52	...the campaign to collect signatures from pardons. Because it was a campaign sold to candy and platter and it was absolutely out of nowhere. They had fewer signatures than affiliates in the People's Party, which demonstrates the massive impact and journey of the People's Party in capturing wills. [[Applauds]] But they go further and they also give us lessons in energy. Yes, of course, but that of the sun tax, as you well know, was carried out by your minister - your People's Party government - and it was an exemplary exercise in energy policy. But I will also tell you why you do not support the legislative measures that this government is bringing to this House, such as the sustainability fund or the CO2 fund. What do you contribute in this area? Absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen. And to end the work of an excellent practice we are told about pensions and they tell us that what the Spanish Government is doing to revalue pensions, that the correct and adequate measure is the factor of sustainability, that decision made by Mr Rajoy and the People's Party Government to limit to a minimum the growth of pensions for our elderly. Those are the restrictive measures of the People's Party to which we have become accustomed. Ladies and gentlemen, from a perspective and from a maximum commitment to the well-being of our citizens, Minister Montero has drawn in two days vertebrate measures and important challenges in the field of education, in the field of vocational training. I would like to highlight, Madam Minister, the commitment to young people, and not only from the budgetary perspective, with a record figure in scholarships of EUR 2 billion - an absolutely record figure in our country in terms of scholarships - but also with a vocational training law that will completely change the picture and facilitate young people's access to the labour market. That is the commitment of a Government capable of vertebrating a country, with the strategy of public action and, moreover, from the perspective of territorial cohesion, and with a huge commitment, because it has not left the autonomous communities alone, not even the local administrations, who have responded thanks to the extraordinary resources that the Government of Spain has enabled in this terrible situation. The model of collaboration is also in the health field. They were no longer just bulging in the percentages of vaccination, but even drawing - as they are doing in the fiscal sphere in Madrid and in other autonomous communities, regrettably - a scenario of absolute lack of commitment. But they do not settle for all this harassment and overthrow against the Government, but, even without reading the laws, because they have not even passed through the Council of Ministers, they already threaten to bring them to the Constitutional Court, as they have done with the Euthanasia Act or as when they voted against the amendment of the Constitution to change the term disability. That is the commitment of the People's Party to the most vulnerable in this country. [[Applauds]] In the area of territorial cohesion, 126 billion for the autonomous communities and the commitment to continue to increase this exercise of cooperation, collaboration, in order to vertebrate the functioning of the autonomous communities. This is being done by a progressive government led by Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejon and that is what hurts the People's Party. When they assimilate and assume that they are in the opposition and that they have to do constructive and not only destructive work, we may have some political formation with a sense of state, which they do not have today and which I doubt very much that they have with the current leadership. Many internal problems have to be devoted to all their time. These budgets have a clear vocation, as the minister has said on numerous occasions, to focus mainly on citizenship. Commitment is absolute. We have talked about pensions, we have talked about young people, we have also talked about the productive fabric, with measures of real positive impact on the productive fabric. We were talking before ERTE, but also about the direct injection of economic resources to meet the terrible challenge that the pandemic has caused. That's why we have a productive fabric in a position to move forward, to get out of an extremely complex situation. The country is beginning to recover the real path it should never have missed in the field of connectivity, in the field of tourism. I want to say something, because yesterday in this rostrum the truth was also missing. The Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to send a message of solidarity to the Canary Islands and the island of La Palma. [[Applauds]] The President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, has not only committed funds to La Palma worth EUR 216 million, but has made numerous visits to the island of La Palma and has made available to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, in particular the island of La Palma, all possible means and human resources. There is close collaboration with the lobby and also with the Government of the community and the municipalities. Therefore, seeking to transfer public opinion that budgets do not include specific resources for La Palma is an unprecedented aggression, it is unforgivable. Don't play with people's pain. In politics, we must bear first and foremost responsibility. There are many spaces to make opposition, but you should never play with these kinds of unfortunate situations that we all regret today. [[Applauds]] I want to highlight two aspects. Once again, they could not forget about ETA. They had to go back to the situation they had experienced more than ten years ago, because it is a peak of the People's Party. They also give us lessons from this spectrum of anti-terrorist policy and the Socialist Party's commitment to terrorism in Spain. Unfortunately, he's still very much alive today. And you know why he's still very alive? Because they need to talk about ETA to make opposition, because they have no arguments to make opposition to a government that governs and a government that is doing things right - I repeat: to a government that is doing things right -. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to convey to the members of the Government and to the President of the Government the absolute and unbridled support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] We will continue to counter this destructive dynamic that opposes this government by attacking the interests of the Spanish and Spanish, no matter what. [[Applauds]] What they care about is them. The opposition has a long journey through the desert We hope to see them there for a long time and that they will continue to work for the good of Spain. [[rumors]] The Government will once again focus, as it cannot otherwise, on governing. Thank you very, very kind. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, to close this debate I rise to the rostrum, first of all, to thank the spokesmen of the Socialist Party and of the United Nations. To the spokespersons of the United Nations We can thank you for highlighting the intense work that we have been doing in the Government of Progress throughout the legislature, the first executive coalition of democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for having done so in your speeches, because I really believe that the work we are doing can make us feel satisfied, even if we have a long stretch to exhaust the legislature and bring all the projects that inspire our formation as a government. I would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that despite the difficulties that we have faced all the citizens in recent months, we have been able to demonstrate that policies are effective and useful to people and that there was therefore another way out of this crisis. And above all, I believe that the coalition government has provided this country and Spanish society with what we needed most at a time of extraordinary complexity, such as security, stability, trust and hope. And thank you, Mr Gómez, for claiming that the roots of a historic party, such as the Socialist Party, are more in force than ever before, that our commitments to freedom, equality, solidarity, social justice and feminism are renewed and strengthened every year and that we always work - we have done so - in the service of Spanish society with honesty and also with a sense of state. We have been in all the great social progress of this country, in the great conquests of rights and freedoms; there has always been the Socialist Party and other left-wing forces of this House leading every step. We also held our shoulders when it came to being in the opposition and we thought it was good to achieve major state pacts or to support the Government in matters of silence. The Socialist Party has always been and will be loyal to the interests of the Spanish and Spanish, as I believe our service sheet shows. Compañeros and compañeras of the socialist bench, it has not been an easy year - you know - but I want to tell you that you have been up to it. And to the Members of the Socialist Group and of the United Nations We can, I just want to remind you that a year ago the number of people killed by the pandemic exceeds 1200 people a week. Today, fortunately, we are about to fire this pandemic and, therefore, although we cannot lower our guard, even if we have to further strengthen the health system, we can say that the worst of the pandemic has already passed. Remember that in the third quarter of 2020 the unemployment rate exceeds 16% and that today we have twenty million occupied. Of course, we must remain vigilant about the evolution of the global economic situation, but today you will allow me to say that I am very proud of all of you and of all of you. You have worked tirelessly, professionally, with seriousness, without fading, with height of sight, always putting the general interest before you. You defend politics with the word and from the word. I believe that we have not fallen into the trap of those who want to lead us towards noise and chrispation, of those who prefer anti-politics or populism because they believe that with it they scratch votes. Ladies and gentlemen, anti-politics will never be won if we do not practice policies that protect citizens, because people do not need slogans, really need the public authorities to deal with them, that what we do in this House is useful, that what we do in the government or in the opposition is useful. Finally, in this chapter of thanks, I would like to address the team of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service explicitly. I want to say that they are magnificent public servants, with great women at the front, who leave the skin - I can assure you - so that we can count every year on the best accounts in this country. [[applause]] I would also like to thank my fellow ministers and ministers, the Minister of the Presidency and, in particular, President Sánchez, whose determination and determination, President, have been essential for us to be here today and to be able to overcome this crisis. This is what, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to make the qualitative leap that our country needs. It is about us continuing to project hope and optimism, especially for young people, who will have to take the lead in the future. We will have to continue to accompany them until the end of the legislature with tools, regulations and resources that allow us to really continue to walk towards that aspiration of country with which we all dream. To say that no to these public accounts means boycotting and opposing that construction, but I continue to appeal precisely to that defense that the more instruments we actually have to pursue that fair recovery, the better. We know that it is not easy; no achievement, no conquest has been simple for those who led it. We must have enough critical mass to allow us to move forward, and that is what we are on a day-to-day basis. Make it clear that this Government will always defend that flag of progress, equal opportunities and social justice, because it is our raison d'être, for which we are at the head of this country and which will accompany us over the coming months. All those who want to participate - here no one is left - in this collective project of construction of the country will be welcome. All those who want to participate will find us there. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We then proceed to the joint vote of the amendments to the full refund of the draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2022 presented by the popular parliamentary groups at the Congress, VOX, Plural, Citizens and Mixed [[Mrs. Nogueras]] [[Mr Botran and Mrs Vehi, Mrs Oramas and Mr Martínez Oblanca]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 5 telematics votes, 345; 155 plus 1 telematics vote, 156; 184 plus 4 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-04-CD211104.u57	Amendments to the entire draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2022 are rejected. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, and from the members of the Government, on their feet]] The meeting rose. It was twelve thirty-five minutes from noon.
