ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u1	Very good morning. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the vote on the amendments to section 16, including, in connection with the Commission's opinion on the draft law on general state budgets for 2022, I would like to announce that the following amendments have been adopted: to Title VI, Transactional Amendment No 1 to Amendment No 5209 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe; to the additional transitional, derogating and final provisions, transactional amendments from 2 to 12; to Section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation, transactional amendments 13 to 15; and to Section 16, Ministry of the Interior, transactional amendments 16 and 17. In addition, the amendment of technical correction No. 1, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Basque Parliamentary Group, to the 16th final provision, was adopted. [[EAJ-PNV]] The joint result of the votes for those amendments shall be published on the House's website in accordance with the usual procedure and shall be annexed to the record of this sitting. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2022. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000070]] Section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u2	We continue with the debate in section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u3	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to present to you the budget estimates of the Ministry of Territorial Policy for the year 2022. But let me say that before we begin to conclude the agreements that have already been announced and that make it possible for the parliamentary processing of these General State Budgets, which will bring progress and prosperity to our country. [[Applauds]] I would like to thank the political groups, all the political formations that will support them, because they also support the development of Spain. Once again it is shown that dialogue is the way forward, especially when it comes to Parliament. This Government is fulfilling, and the budgets will come into force in time and form for the second time in this legislature, fostering stability, confidence and security for our country. I will focus my speech today on the broad lines of section 22, but first I would like to make some general considerations. The Government is promoting a transformative recovery based on solidarity between individuals, territories and generations. A reactivation in which the protagonist is the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which also has its reflection in section 22. The General State Budgets for 2022 are public accounts anchored in social justice, in the defence of public services, in the commitment to democratic quality and in the strengthening of cohesion. The commitment to territorial cohesion, in particular, translates into increased investment in infrastructure, as well as direct contributions to the autonomous communities and local entities, which reached record figures in these accounts. Let me give you some information: in these budgets, more than EUR 10 billion of the Recovery and Resilience Facility is made available to the territorial administrations. The autonomous communities will count next year with a total of 126,500 million euros - cipherinedite - between direct financing, compensations and European funds. The municipalities will receive, for their part, the largest deliveries on account of their entire history. They will grow by 13% to 22,062 million. These are budgets that are also firmly committed to the demographic challenge and depopulation of some areas of Spain. These policies will have an allocation of more than €42 billion. They highlight games for digital connectivity, tourism, agricultural and livestock sustainability and also to improve the accessibility of public services. These budgets also increase the Ministry's budget, reaching almost EUR 510 million,76 million more than in 2021, i.e. a 17% increase. However, ladies and gentlemen, territorial policy, as you know, goes far beyond economic investment. To make territorial policy requires the articulation of mechanisms for dialogue and cooperation between the different territorial levels. The budget for 2022 consolidates these three lines of action for the ministry: strengthening inter-territorial collaboration, strengthening local entities and improving the provision of the services of the General Administration of the State in the territory. Starting with interterritorial collaboration, the 922.M program promotes and develops collaboration between the three levels of government: the State, the autonomous communities and the local entities. It will be provided with 5% more than the previous year, EUR 10.8 million. I would like to stress that in the framework of multilateral cooperation we have made a proposal to improve the functioning of the Conference of Presidents, which is called upon to be a key vault in our system of co-governance. We are going to propose the creation of a permanent secretariat to promote its coordination and to continue its work. This very week, next Friday, I will meet with the preparatory committee for the impetus and follow-up to the Conference of Presidents with all the autonomous communities, in order to make progress on certain matters, such as the reform of this regulation. Secondly, we will continue to devote all our efforts to dialogue with a view to reaching agreements with all administrations. We will continue to promote regulatory collaboration within the framework of article 33.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. The objective we have set ourselves is to reduce this competitive conflict, and already since June 2018 this dialogue has allowed it to be reduced to very important limits, up to 74%. Only seventy-four agreements have been reached in this legislature within the framework of the bilateral cooperation commissions, a figure that shows how much progress can be made when dialogue and institutional loyalty prevail, how conflicts languish in the face of politics. Following the strengthening of inter-territorial collaboration, the 92.KC framework programme will invest EUR 2 million this year, mainly in a technological platform for inter-administrative collaboration that supports all systems of intergovernmental relations, and I refer to sectoral conferences, bilateral commissions, inter-administrative agreements, etc. It is a platform that will facilitate the exchange of information and networking in the different cooperation bodies. Under the same heading we are also going to undertake the development of the application that already exists for the management of aid to local authorities in the face of emergency situations of civil protection. We will automate data collection and improve information systems to further reduce processing times in this type of aid. Beyond processing, we also bet to promote collaboration between administrations in emergency situations. This will be another matter we want to address in the context of the Conference of Presidents. Not in vain, the collaboration has allowed us to respond in an exemplary way to the health crisis and also to give a joint response to other more recent emergencies such as that of the volcano of La Palma, and I take the opportunity to send our solidarity, support and permanent commitment to palm trees and palm trees. [[Applauds]] The second line of action is the strengthening of local entities or what is the same, ladies and gentlemen: a bet decided by municipalism. To this end, the 94.KC programme will allocate EUR 149 million for the modernisation and digitisation of local administrations. As you know, this amount is part of a global investment amounting to 192 million euros for the period 2021-2023. From the ministry we have already launched the part of the investment that would correspond to this current year, 2021, with a first tranche of 92 million euros destined for the municipalities with more than 50 000 inhabitants. This investment will allow financing projects of actions as important for municipalities as improving their municipal services through digital platforms that pay attention to citizens and businesses with the development of mobile or other applications. Last week they presented in Badalona an important application that will facilitate the lives of the people and that had to do with the measurement of the traffic lights both on the beach and in the parking lots of the promenade to make the decision to go or not, depending on how these traffic lights were. These investments will enable citizens, businesses and public employees to democratize access to data. These actions will also be aimed at maintaining the cybersecurity of local authorities or the active use of emerging technologies, without a doubt exerting a decisive impetus for the modernisation of local administrations. With these projects we will get digitization to all territories, to any small municipality. In the same vein, in order not to leave anyone behind, budget programme 942.A envisages an increase in contributions to local cooperation that will exceed 36 million euros. Specifically, under this heading we will finance the transfer of the Investment Fund to Teruel - which, as you know, has a long tradition - and we will also increase the subsidy to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces by up to 20% compared to the previous budgets. In fact, this Government has intensified cooperation with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, giving prominence to the municipalities, their mayors and mayors, taking on the commitment to promote instruments to improve institutionalization and their participation in the various forums. With regard to the strengthening of local authorities, let me also remind you that from the ministry we are working on amending the Local Regulatory Law, whose preliminary draft we will bring to the Council of Ministers before the end of this year. This is a measure that does not require a great amount of budgetary investment but shows the priority for the Government and the priority for the ministry. We are talking about a legal change that makes it possible to clarify the competition system and increase the room for manoeuvre of local authorities in the provision of services, because this Government, as I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, has full confidence in the municipalities and a deep respect for their local autonomy. The reform of the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime will also include specific regulations for municipalities with smaller populations and at risk of depopulation, with the aim of facilitating public management and contributing to the fixing of population throughout the territory by providing quality basic services. The third line of action that I wanted to mark in this intervention concerns the improvement of the provision of the quality of the services of the General Administration of the State in the territory, which is carried out through a strategic plan for the improvement of these services. Specifically, budget programme 921.P, which allocates EUR 272 million to the activities of delegations and sub-delegations of Government, means an increase of more than EUR 6 million over the previous year; of these EUR 3.5 million will be devoted to investment in modernization and technological renewal also in this area, with the aim of providing better services to citizens in foreign offices, in international vaccination centres, in border inspection posts or in coordination units against violence against women. And let me also take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of public employees working in these gender-based violence coordination units on the eve of the International Day against Gender-based Violence. [[Applauds]] Increasing this investment for us is crucial, because strengthening the General Administration of the State in the territory is also a way of making state. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to conclude my speech without sharing with you a reflection that is also a conviction, we have emerged from this crisis with really drastic consequences for all Spanish citizens, especially those who lost loved ones, but we have learned some very valuable lessons that should never fall into a broken bag. One of them is that joint work makes each and every one of us and at all levels of government stronger. Yesterday I listened with pride to the President of the European Commission to highlight the effort that we have made in this country by all administrations to achieve a record figure of 90% vaccination, and I said that this collective success of 90% vaccination made the risk of dying thirty times lower than that of other countries in our environment. No doubt, I think it's a success to celebrate. We're saving lives. Collaboration allows us to respond to unique needs in each territory without hindering shared goals and challenges. In this regard, I firmly believe that this draft budget that we are discussing today will bring growth and well-being throughout the territory, to the whole of the citizenry, because it dismantles barriers, because it fights against discrimination and social exclusion, because it promotes gender equality, because it takes into account the different needs of all the territories and their diversity, because it addresses the existing gaps, not the obvious ones, and also because it advances the predictable ones, such as the generational or the digital ones. In short, they are budgets that will allow us to move forward and grow as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish as I began by thanking all the political groups that have decided to support these budgets and therefore support the progress and recovery of Spain, and also all those political forces that have made an effort to study them, to table amendments, in short, to try to contribute to this. With these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, Spain will move forward and, with them, the Spanish and the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u4	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u5	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all, as a representative of the Joint Group, I support Amendment No 20 tabled by Mr Tomás Guitarte in this section. The position of the Regionalist Party is that we want a budget and we want it, first of all, for the specific interests of Cantabria. Secondly, because Cantabria is a fully integrated region in the rest of the country, which is a country formed by such a dense network of social, economic, family, commercial and all kinds of interests that almost everything that happens in any part of the territory has a direct or indirect reflection on the rest. So to approve these budgets is to defend Cantabria's interests, and to defend Cantabria's interests is the raison d'être of the Regionalist Party Because, not in vain, its foundation was the consequence of ADIC's 1976 Constitution, which was the Association for the Defense of Cantabria's Interests, and the constitution of the PRC in 1978 was a consequence of the need to participate in political life. Since then it has followed an ascending line and today we can say that we are the first party of the autonomous community, with great difference over the others. It has entered the debate on the amendments to this budget and I have two issues to address. Firstly - I am sorry for you, but since we have not tabled any amendments to this section, I have to take advantage of the parasitic intervention that I have tabled in other sections - I can say that we have tabled concrete, realistic amendments, they have not been weight amendments, many have been adopted, most of them. In particular, the section on Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has included the road from Potes to Vega de Liébana, the underground of the railways as they pass through Torrelavega and the cover of the tracks, also of railways, of Camargo. In addition, we are introducing another amendment to co-finance the removal of steps at level in the network of metric width - which is the former FEVE - as it passes through Cantabria in all that affects the roads of autonomous ownership. The creation of a link on the A-67 motorway of the Meseta por Cieza is pending. Finally, an amendment is pending in the Section for Industry, Commerce and Tourism, which is the adequacy of the La Vega polygon, in Reinosa, a polygon of Sepes, which is an institution of the State, which has really left it in a pitiful situation. It has passed to the city hall, the city hall has no resources and we have asked for help to be able to adapt it to the current needs, in an area like Reinosa, which is also suffering an industrial decline over the very considerable years. Secondly, I would like to comment on something particularly directed at your department - although we have already said it and repeated it to the satisfaction of all the members of the Government - and it is that budget implementation is leaving much to be desired. In this sense, the year 2021 has been a failure. I know that there have been circumstances that partially justify this result and, in their personal case, for the short time it has taken, but we can now end that grace period that is given to everyone when they hold a public office, because it has already been well over a hundred days. Turning in particular to the management of the 2022 financial year and, in particular, to the use of European funds, I must say that your ministry is the one that is the most backward of all, at least in what I have been able to contrast. In particular, I refer to component 11 of the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, that of modernization of the public administration and its use in digitization. The Autonomous Communities are awaiting a sectoral conference where they can really know what the road map they need to achieve their objectives is. In the specific case of Cantabria, it seems that it has allocated 7 million euros in a draft distribution of which nothing is known, or at least nothing official. That is why, Mrs Rodríguez, I ask you to convene this sectoral conference as soon as possible, because then the deadlines are over and, moreover, we will also have the Brussels bureaucrats, who are going to be very demanding when it comes to disbursing all the funds allocated to us. So I ask you, please, this component that is in your department - we know that the whole axis has other parts in other ministries, but I am referring specifically to yours - because from the autonomous community they are demanding as soon as possible a realization about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u6	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u7	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, indeed, you have said, European funds are a very important part of this budget, they are a very important part, and it is also true - and that must be acknowledged - that part of these European funds will be implemented through channelling through the autonomous communities and local corporations. We have reached an agreement with the Government to make it possible for the four Members of the Democratic Party to join in the approval of these budgets in relation to a very specific aspect, and it is that of the funds channelled through the autonomous communities. I would like to thank the Government for being sensitive not to giving Catalonia any privileges, but to recognizing the uniqueness in the provision of certain public services in Catalonia. Catalonia, as you know, has a system for the provision of public services in the field of health and of the various very peculiar social services and actions, based on public-private collaboration. Many non-profit entities, which are part of what we call the third sector in Catalonia, provide these services. The paradoxical situation was that in the first implementation of these funds in the field of health, in the field of social services, it was not possible for these non-profit entities, but providing public services, to have access to these funds of the European Union which were reserved essentially for public investment. That the investments must be public had a reason to be if the public service only provided it by the public administration. In Catalonia we found that on various occasions there were non-profit institutions which were the only ones providing public service in the field of health or 'in a social sphere, such as the care of persons with disabilities, etc., who could not access these funds, and we have reached an agreement with the Government whereby the non-profit entities providing public services in the field of health and in the field of social services will also be able to access these calls, these lines to finance the investments of their equipment. It makes no sense - that was happening at the moment in Catalonia - for example, that reference institutions in the field of health, such as the Hospital de Sant Joan de Déu, a reference in maternal and child health in the public health services of Catalonia, cannot access these funds to make some extension or improvement of the hospital itself or - I give you another example - that the Hospital de El Vendrell, which is managed by the Fundación Sant Pau i Santa Tecla, in Tarragona, cannot access these funds to carry out an extension of the hospital when all public health in the Baix Penedès region is provided by these types of entities. We are therefore pleased that you have been sensitive to this reality. If someone tries to explain to them that this is a privilege for Catalonia, do not be deceived; simply, it is to adapt the possibility of applying these funds to reality in Catalonia. This should also be an example for other cases and situations. If some of you - you know that is not my case - want to maintain a plurinational State, you must make it possible for the State to adapt to that plurinationality. And plurinationality is not only language, but in different areas our societies have evolved differently. And if more than 30% of the provision of public health and social services in Catalonia is carried out through these non-profit institutions, it is also fair for them to have access to European funds. I therefore thank you for this change of approach; rather than a change of approach, it is an adaptation of the approach to a reality that was perhaps not sufficiently known, but which is very important. This will make it possible for us to vote in favour of these budgets, together, of course, with other amendments. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u8	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Betoret Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. I compare the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group to the budgets of section 22, Territorial Policy, a section that has the dubious honour of being one of the ministries with the least budget in absolute terms, along with those of Equality, Universities and Presidency. It is such an 'important' department that since the start of the legislature Mrs Darias, Mr Iceta and, right now, Mrs Rodriguez have passed through it. Three ministers in two years. You have turned the Ministry of Territorial Policy into a wild card. They care so much that they have gradually emptied it of competences and budgets until it becomes a general direction disguised as a ministry. And I say this because there is nothing that depends on this ministry that is important for the autonomous communities and local entities. With virtually no competence and no budget to solve the problems of the autonomous communities and local entities, this ministry has two functions. The first is propaganda to make them believe that they care about autonomous communities and local entities, which is obviously false. The second is the whim, because, together with the Falcon, it is the instrument to meet the whims of the president in relation to internal issues of his party. He did it first with Mr. Iceta and now with you. The irrefutable proof of what I say is the budget for the year 2022. The accounts, with a total budget of 510 million, devote more than 66% of the budget to paying regular expenditure or, which is the same, current expenditure and salary. The rest of the total is made up of European Union funds. Even so, the president wanted to give himself the whim of maintaining a ministry virtually without competence, of course, with a minister and, if that was not enough, appointed a former colleague of his stage in the city council as Secretary of State. As I say: the budget at the service of Sánchez's whims and friends, to return favors or place chips on the internal political board of the PSOE itself. And who pays for this party? For it is paid by citizens, such as the Falcon, holidays with friends in La Mareta and so many other expenses, while the Spaniards have to suffer the inability to manage, the occurrences, the concessions to radicality and the ideological nonsense of which the Government shows every time it makes a decision. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to the entire section in which we ask that the powers be fully transferred to the Ministry of Finance and we save ourselves the post of the Minister, the Secretary of State and the pleyade of trusted advisers and staff, because there are still high offices and there is a lack of project and political leadership to solve citizens' problems. How do you explain to the self-employed that, while they receive - among other things - the quotes, the light, the diesel, the insurance, the shopping basket, you have twenty-four ministries? How are you going to explain to the worst people who are going through it that, while they suffer, you allow yourselves the whim of having ministers dealing with issues that are completely or mostly handed over to the autonomous communities or are virtually indispensible? Are they going to explain this to the transporters, to the police who will speak today, to the prison officials, to the farmers, to the farmers, to the metal workers? As always, they will resort to euphemisms and marketing. We will continue to hear that democracy has a cost and they will speak again of co-governance, which, translated into street language, is the mechanism used by the Government to profile itself when problems arrive and transfer them to another administration. The meaning of the term has been learned at the most complicated time of the pandemic, when the Government left to its fate autonomous communities and local entities that had to deal alone with the problem. We have heard again about dialogue this morning and we are told that dialogue is the tool they have used to make the budget and the basis of their government action. At this point we ask ourselves: and what is dialogue for you? I ask myself this question because you, Minister, calling for that dialogue, in various speeches you have asked us to make proposals if we do not agree with what the Government is proposing to reject or avoid them, as we have made more than two thousand proposals in the form of an amendment. It is now that we definitely understand the meaning of the term dialogue for the Government. Apparently, it is something like the action for which the Government proposes something, it does not listen to anyone, it rejects all the proposals that come to it and it does what it wants - even against the criteria of the technicians - to subsequently presume that its decisions were born out of the agreement. The same dialogue is used in the handling of various legislative initiatives in this House. You know that thing about lentils. Madam Minister, have you not been able to find one of our acceptable proposals, one of more than two thousand? We don't understand anything. By the way, when a COVID Fund of more than 9 billion is taken forward for the autonomous communities, those who claim so much to defend and those for whom they supposedly have a ministry, they once again take a walk in the particular way of dialogue they have to announce that an agreement of the Congress of Deputies will be blown up. This is the same dialogue they have used to decide what EU funds are going to be allocated to, which, according to the budget, are going to be devoted to digital transformation and modernization of local and regional administration. The Secretary of State has already warned us that in a first stage - you have said so too - they are going to dedicate themselves to municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants or, what is the same, they are going to spend this part on modernising and digitizing approximately 155 municipalities of the more than 8000 that our country has, leaving out or leaving for the end the smallest ones, who are the ones who most need it. By the way, I imagine you will have seen it, but I recommend to your ladies and gentlemen that you see the video of the head of the Structural Funds Office explaining how you are using the budgets. They reject our proposals to improve municipal advisory services to municipalities or to train councillors in small municipalities and at risk of depopulation. That is the concern you have for depopulation. In short, and to conclude, this budget is a huge advertising campaign that will cost us dearly, that will generate false hopes - indeed, it generates them - that will cause frustration...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u10	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u11	I'm done. ... and that it will not solve any of the problems that the Spaniards have, but it will generate future problems that will complicate even more if the recovery and the exit from the crisis is possible. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u12	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On a position-setting basis, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, these budgets will come forward with the support of PSOE, United Podemos, Esquerra Republicana, EH Bildu, PNV, More Country, Compromís, Partido Regionalista de Cantabria, et cetera. If that does not seem to you dialogue, the ability to reach agreements and the ability to establish dialogue in this House to carry out policies that favour everyone, I do not know what you are thinking. [[Applauds]] I suppose you will think of the 2018 budgets, in which you voted more than eight thousand amendments and which came forward with the agreement of your party, other groups and some small regionalist allies that are basically part of your party even if they are called otherwise. Or I suppose you will think about what happened in this House during the XII Legislature, when you without a majority, through the budgetary veto and through your ability with Citizens to paralyze the process of amendments to legislative initiatives in the Bureau of Congress, were systematically the whole Legislature vetoing dozens and dozens of initiatives that came out with the majority support of this House. [[Applauds]] Dialogue lessons will come you to give here! And above it is a matter of territorial policy! Please! In addition, I believe that the way you deal with the policies that depend on this ministry is completely unacceptable in a reality like that of the Spanish State because of the importance that local entities, autonomous communities and the General Administration of the State itself have. I would like to highlight the work the ministry is doing, both its current team and its previous teams, to enhance precisely territorial public policies and to promote the co-governance and development of competitive and organizational political ties between the General Administration of the State, the autonomous communities and the local entities. Similarly, you mentioned this, I believe that the work that is being done to mediate between them should be valued when conflicts of competences arise. You mentioned this, but, as an example and to say only one month, last September we reached agreements with Catalonia, with Aragon, with the Valencià Country, with Navarre, with the Balearic Islands, and so on, on eight rules on which constitutional discrepancies existed. As the Minister has said, this is done under article 33.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, and in what we have before us as a legislature, almost 80 total final agreements and five partial agreements have been reached in this regard. If that is not dialogue, tell me what dialogue is. Although we understand this perfectly, because you, when you come up here, basically devote yourselves to saying no to everything and use the communities where you are ruling to be permanently in conflict with the Government of the State, rather than to addressing the needs of the citizens of those communities. So, of course, we understand that you do not like a government to have a dialogue and to reach agreements in this House, because you are more of the conflict, of the confrontation and of using, for example, the Madrid Community as the real weapon of opposition against the government of the State. We are here for other things, we are to make policy useful and we are, above all, to build bridges between different administrations. [[Applauds]] The specific data on the Ministry's budget and the programmes associated with it, I believe, have been perfectly detailed by the Minister. I believe that what is significant is that there is a real increase in all headings, both in the overall heading, with an increase of 17.36 %, and in each and every one of the programmes which depend on it. We know that there are some issues among these programmes, for example, that money has been budgeted to sign a future agreement with autonomous communities aimed at establishing a system of indicators to measure compliance with the Council of Europe's European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. We already know that this subject of languages is something else that you use permanently for the conflict and, therefore, everything that goes towards progress in respecting the plurinationality that exists in the Spanish State, with its linguistic and national variety, bothers you and we understand that you come here to talk about the things that you speak to us. Logically, for you to go to Mass in honor of Franco is fine, but to make agreements so that the linguistic plurality of the state is respected not so much. We know them, we know them. [[Applauds]] You make a reference to the situation of metal, I suppose so you are currently living in Cadiz. Do not worry, that the workers of Cadiz know perfectly well what is happening. You know perfectly well that your current situation is a consequence of the labour reform that you are implementing, whereby when an agreement expires, if there is no agreement over a year, it stays practically in the law of the jungle and, therefore, entrepreneurs have the ability to do whatever they want with the employment situation of workers. [[Mr Betoret Coll: Please!-Protests]] [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín Raises his hand and teaches three fingers]] They know perfectly well how they know that this Government and the Ministry of Labour are doing their utmost to repeal this labour reform and, in particular, to put an end to ultraactivity and to change the scope of collective bargaining in order to restore the power that should never have been lost to workers. [[Applauds]] You know perfectly well. So, what do you come here to tell us about the metal workers and other issues on which all you have to do is apologize for what you did while you were government? Nothing more, nothing more. [[Applauds and Protests]] Finally, I will end by making a reference to territorial policy, because I believe that, along with other crises that are open in this state - social crisis, crisis fighting for gender equality, environmental crisis - the territorial issue is fundamental. We know that we have important challenges that will have to be addressed during this parliamentary term, such as the challenge of autonomous financing; the challenge of how to fit and exit the demands of territories such as Catalonia or the Basque Country that, from their democratic impulse, claim the right to decide and other issues, and, above all, the challenge of what is known as emptied Spain, which is actually a problem of abandoned Spain. We believe that this Government and these budgets are taking the necessary steps to move forward in the resolution of these problems and that much remains to be done, but have no doubt that we have it in mind because it is part of our DNA and that we will work on it from a useful policy. In the meantime, you guys are gonna kick and come down here and say the things you say, because something else you don't bring. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u14	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u15	With the coming of the presidency. Madam Minister, this is your first budget as a minister and you are very excited about it, but the reality, as I told you in the Commission and the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group has reiterated, is that your ministry has been totally decaffeinated. He has been left with the skills of what was not many years ago a general direction and little more. After what Iceta did with the famous 'iceta' and the barbarities she had planned to do in the field of public service, she did not surprise us that in July she passed on to Culture, that all the competences in the field of public administration, public service and public governance will be passed on to the Ministry of Finance and that you have been left as the general director with the rank of minister in what should be at most a secretariat of State in another ministry. And, as such, its budget has been deflated: it currently has four regular programmes and two extraordinary programmes derived from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. What draws our attention to within this small budget is that they keep almost EUR 6 million for advisors, i.e. friends to the finger of government delegates, which we have already denounced last year with the then minister, because from last year's debate to this are three ministers who have passed through the ownership of this department. We have already denounced last year that 6 million euros - 1 billion pesetas, we said - is a lot of money for friends of government delegates. Moreover, they do so with total obscurantism. Nothing is collected on the ministry's website or on the Transparency Portal. They tell us: They are not high offices and they are not bound. Man, you don't have to, but you who boast of transparency could shed some light on what's so hidden there. What's more, we asked for information, but we were denied it. We were told: For data protection we will not give you data. We made complaints, we reiterated the request, they let us go to three deputies, not to an office of the ministry, but to a local in the center of Madrid, as a hidden thing, that had no elevator, with a staircase that had to go up to what in Cantabria we called a goat, and there they taught us some chips, photocopies manipulated with data marked and we could see the names, the levels and the date of taking possession, nothing more. And there we found that the government delegate in Andalusia has twenty-one advisers; Madrid, five; Cantabria, three; Asturias, two. What is the criterion of distribution? What does the government delegate in Andalusia need twenty-one advisors for? I was reminded of the Juan Guerra case. Of course, you're very young and you don't remember it anyway, but you were the brother of the then vice president of the government - we talked about more than thirty years ago - Mr Guerra, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. He had seven years of trials and five cases for misuse of an office in the delegation of the Government of Andalusia. And he was convicted, like Al Capone, of a tax issue, for not declaring income, because the Supreme Court said that such proceedings did not imply a typical anti-legal action guilty and punishable and could therefore not constitute a crime. And it was as a result of the Juan Guerra case that the Criminal Code was amended and the traffic in influence was classified as a crime. As I said, it reminds me of that, because, I insist, the government delegate has twenty-one advisors, more than any president of an autonomous community... if they do not belong in the government delegation! Where are those advisors? I challenge you to be brave, and as you have denied us more information, please, now, face to face, no longer in writing, tell us at least the degree and professional experience, not of the one hundred and forty advisors, of the twenty-one in Andalusia. Look, I leave it very easy for you, of the twenty-one of Andalusia; tell us the degree and professional experience, who refuse to tell us. [[Rumors]] And tell us what functions they do, because the answer to their ministry by writers: advisory functions. Look, we already know that, but one will have a specific area of Civil Protection, another of State Security Forces and Bodies, another of coordination of area chiefs and provincial delegations... Algoharán, there are not going to be twenty-one advisors to the government delegate every day behind him. I dare you to do that. [[Applauds]] And I challenge him to do something else: just as it is regulated by decree how many advisers can have secretaries of state, who can have a chief of staff and three more with the rank of deputy director general, I challenge him to regulate by decree how many advisers can have government delegates, with total transparency, according to what must be a democratic state, and to say: for, look, the maximum in the uniprovincials, three, and in the multiprovincials, four, with levels of 26 to 30, and one will have the rank of chief of staff with level 38 and another rank of deputy director general. Whatever it is, but regular; regular, because our function of control is very difficult to do when there is obscurantism, and your ministry in this matter has been of the most opaque. On the other hand, the second issue that draws our attention is that there is an increase in the number of studies and technical work carried out by the government delegations, which was newly created by 2021, because there was no such number before, in 2021 they created it with EUR 1 350 000. By the way, the question has been before us for a few days and we have asked for documentation on what they have hired and we want to see the dossiers. Well, they increase it by EUR 1 200 000 plus 2 550 000, which, together with the budget in 2021, is almost EUR 4 million in two years for technical assistance contracts. I note that if the government delegate in Andalusia has twenty-one advisers and has to hire technical assistance outside, what do the advisers do? If you have to hire reports outside, what are advisors worth? [[Applauds]] I'm done because I'm running out of time. You have concluded the agreements you have reached to approve the budgets. We reject those agreements...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u16	Your Honor, you have to finish, your time has passed much longer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u17	... because they have made them with people who have blood on their hands and do not repent of it. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, I would like to say a few words.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u18	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andres Barea has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, thank you for coming and giving the explanations of a ministry that is reborn with President Pedro Sánchez, after a few years of not being in government - as has been evident - and is born with the will of dialogue, consensus, recognition of a plural and diverse Spain. It is the path of dialogue that has led us to agree these budgets and give answers to people, nothing more true than that. [[Applauds]] These budgets that you have raised focus on a number of issues, but we want to re-place co-governance - and fundamental as a response to the autonomous state - and municipalism, and get them out of where the PP put them. That is why it has announced the amendment of the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime and Small Municipalities and the modernization of the local administration, to bring it to the 21st century. I would specifically like to thank you for your attention on the subject of disasters. He has always been sensitive when we talked to him about it and in particular, at this moment, with La Palma, where I think we must make a collective effort among all. [[Applauds]] Also the recognition of the FEMP, forgotten and used, guaranteeing its role as a link between the State and the autonomous communities. And as a Valencian speaker - he has not said it, but I know it - I thank him for the recognition and encouragement of the official languages in Spain, complying with article 3 of the Constitution; I thank him. This budget increase - small, as I know it seems silly to others - of 17.36 %, means consolidating the Ministry of Territorial Policy, despite the fact that it is in spite of PP and VOX. They've been here arguing that it must have been a general direction and so on. The problem is not the ministry, the problem is that they would make the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Territoriality disappear, everything related to self-government, the recognition of diversity; but they will not achieve it; not a step backwards in our territorial model emanating from the Constitution. The co-governance has come to stay. [[Applauds]] Its objective is to ensure that our budgets are not adopted in an attempt to destabilize us. As I said, they do not accept the autonomous state. Article 2 of the Constitution says 'common and indivisible homeland', they know it wonderfully, they sing it, but after the first coma says'recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and solidarity between them'. Mr. Del Valle, do you agree with this in its entirety? No, I'm sure not. And, Mr. Betoret, do you agree with this? Hum! Half; half. [[Laughter and applause]] But what do your barons think, what does Mr. Feijoo and Mr. Moreno Bonilla think of their lack of recognition of the Autonomous State? Because the statutes of autonomy from there where they govern are identical at the competitive level to others that you criticize, identical; so identical that when a budget change is made it is looking to the next one so that it has no more competences than itself. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not come and tell us what it is not. Of course, Mrs Ayuso does not have that problem, she does not want to abandon the competitive level, no level; what she is wishing is the chair of Married. That's obvious. [[Laughter and applause]] Another issue that we have been criticized many times is the number of public posts, contingent personnel, salaries, chiringuitos, they said yesterday. For Mr Casado said here in this Chamber that he would halve all public posts. Has that been told to people? VOX says: 81 934. Come on, you've got it rated. But both parties say the same thing: slimming down the administration, the less government, the better, freedom of action and the market it rules. You know that the staff of free designation are governed by Law 30, the same since 1984, by which Mr Abascal and Mr Casado were appointed in their multiple public offices. [[Applauds]] Mr. Casado and Mr. Abascal are permanent users of Law 30, of those chiringuitos. I don't know what to tell the lords of Citizens, they haven't shown up. I think the problem, besides that they are having a hostile OPA, that they are being eaten by the PP - the chickens that come in through which they go out, they are placing every god - is that if we don't talk about nationalism or police, the truth is that you have very little to say. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They accuse us that we are mistreating local government, municipalities; that budgets are unjustified, insufficient; that there is no adequate funding system. I must tell you that it is a commitment of this Government, that there will be local and autonomous funding, that we will hear from the committee of experts and, in addition, from the municipalities, the autonomous communities and the FEMP. [[Mr Betoret Coll, raising three fingers with one hand: three years talking about dialogue!]] Everyone. And welcome Galicia; welcome Galicia. [[A Member of Parliament: Olé!-Applause]] The other day my colleague José Luis Ramos explained to them that there is financial sufficiency because they have put in means. This budget neutralizes negative settlements with additional transfers, which you have never made. And, in addition, the European Union's funds are also for the autonomous communities and municipalities, which were never present. But it draws my attention - and I ask you, Mr Betoret - have you tabled an amendment with an extraordinary COVID fund for municipalities and autonomous communities? Because I can't find her, because they haven't introduced her. [[A honourable Member: There, there!-Applause]] Because you haven't introduced her; you support Junts per Cat's because you haven't introduced her. My partner Montse Mínguez said the other day that you were voting with the nationalists, but you know why? Because you haven't worked and you haven't presented anything at all. Nothing. [[Mr.Betoret Coll: Look at him, read him!-Applause]] I'm finishing up. This Government is fighting COVID, this pandemic and its consequences. We are a European example. You continue to be disloyal, but I ask you to know a little about the situation, for people, for Spain, for your communities, for your people; think about the future of this society, which is what we have to answer to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u20	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 23, Ministry for Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge We move on to the debate in section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I rise to this rostrum to defend the draft State General Budgets Act concerning the section of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. I am grateful for the certainty provided by the adoption of the General Budgets of the State, as they represent clear support for the ecological transition policies demanded by a broad social majority and by members of this House; they strengthen economic recovery; they strengthen the sense of social justice linked to the protection of our resources; and they facilitate the fulfilment of our international commitments, both with regard to the climate and with regard to the Sustainable Development Goals. The budget as a whole amounts to EUR 10 195 million, of which EUR 5817 million is from the national budget - which has grown from EUR 5500 in 2021 - and EUR 4378 million is from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which together with the rest is an unprecedented investment figure. I would like to point out that, on 15 November, in this implementation of the 2021 budget, we are close to 70%, and I trust that the year will end with a figure close to 90% with regard to the resources of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. This budget he presented represents an unprecedented mobilization in relation to three of the country's major challenges: the transformation of the energy system, the response to the climate emergency and the protection of biodiversity and territorial cohesion, inclusion and equality with our compatriots living in small municipalities. The first major challenge, related to the energy transition, has a budget of 7397 million, of which 4500 correspond to the regular budget and more than 2800 come from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Mechanism. The transfers of the Secretariat of State are more than 4 billion, of which 3695 correspond to the National Commission on Markets and Competition and will be to contribute from the General Budgets of the State, with a large part of what is received from Europe for revenues of auctions of CO2 rights, to the fixed costs of the electricity system at a particularly sensitive time. To them are added 716 million to finance the extra cost of energy in island territories. In other words, both headings are linked to key elements from the point of view of solidarity with consumers. From a substantive point of view, a key factor in the energy transition is that of the pace of implementation of renewable energies, so 435 million are earmarked for the Innovative Renewable Energy Development Plan, integrated in building and productive processes - i.e. component 2 of the Recovery Plan - and another 175 million for the sustainable energy investment line on the islands, of component 7 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. But if there is something essential in any deep, intense and rapid transformation as it is that we are already living - we like it or we like it, and fortunately we have been working on it for a long time - it is always thinking about the social dimension and the redistributive effects, about the concerns that workers and consumers may feel at complex and turbulent times like this. That is why we are making this transition a transition that we want to adjust with workers, neighbours and regions. Citizens and territories whose economies were based on fossil fuels and their associated economic activity should not bear the social and economic costs of such transformation, let alone do so alone. A dynamic society must ensure solidarity mechanisms and this is what we do with the budget allocation for the Institute for the Just Transition, which will grow to 442 million, including 110 in transfers from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. The Institute's budget highlights the following programmes: 53 million for employment-generating projects, 4 million for social development projects, 140 for payments to coal mining workers, including pre-retirement, low compensation and employability programmes, and 85 million for agreements with autonomous communities. In the same section, an additional 10 million are allocated for the restoration of mining areas and 15.7 for the closure plan for mining and electricity companies. Of the 110 million of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the focus is primarily on environmental restoration, the infrastructure plan, energy R & D+i projects and a support plan for retraining and job reintegration. They are also actions that have forty-one million from the European Union's Fair Transition Fund. Nor can we forget that recovery must be fair to consumers, especially to the most vulnerable - I mentioned earlier - at a time when the payment of energy supplies is vital. Our commitment to energy poverty is maintained and strengthened. We want to strengthen it in this complicated year that we live in. I would like to highlight the EUR 157 million item for the thermal social bond, which is increased by 44% over the 2021 figures with the intention of catering to those groups with the greatest difficulties in dealing with the energy bill, the most vulnerable groups. It is a matter of elementary justice for our fellow citizens. Among the challenges facing Spain are improving the manageability of renewables in the system. Therefore, storage policies are key, must take off and lift the flight. We have allocated 289 million precisely to storage. It will be necessary to continue to budget for actions in various areas, including the hydrogen route, which will have 555 million for renewable hydrogen programmes, including the associated industrial value chain. These are actions of components 9 and 8 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, respectively. Electricity, energy efficiency and renewables are the three fundamental axes for success in the transformation of the energy system. Therefore, the budgetary effort made for the electrification of transport as an indispensable part of this transition is essential. It is a shared effort with other ministerial departments, but in our case it represents a 445 million allocation for the Plan of Incentives for the installation of charging points, the acquisition of electric vehicles and fuel cells and the innovation in electromobility, charging and green hydrogen applied to mobility. They are projects that give continuity to the lines started and executed in the year 2021. Measures for energy efficiency, self-consumption and the promotion of energy communities are a real success; they are the pillar, the basis of transformation, they serve to reduce reliance on markets or large operators; they serve to reduce energy consumption; they serve to lower citizens' bills; they serve to support cooperatives, to support small trade, to support small industry, but also small municipalities. For this reason, these policies will have €300 million to be financed from ERDF funds for the period 2021-2027 and managed by IDAE, Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving, which also has an additional €12 million for the digitisation of the electricity sector, €6 million for innovation and value chain and €10 million for social measures in the energy sector, in addition to the other €20 million in component 7 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will strengthen the energy community's momentum. In this area, we included $434.7 million for the Energy Transition Plan in the General State Administration, component 11 of the plan. From the Programme of regeneration and demographic challenge there will be 350 million destined for urban rehabilitation and regeneration in local entities less than 5000 inhabitants, and for the Programme sustainable urban development, DUS 5000, which has had great success during the opening period started just ten days ago and still open. As you can see, the energy effort of these budgets is enormously relevant and will serve to meet the challenge of the transition to a clean, efficient, sustainable energy that takes into account the territories and above all people, with criteria of social justice and equal opportunities in sustainable development. The second major challenge we face is the preservation of our ecosystems, biodiversity, natural resources and territory influenced by anthropogenic action and also by the severe consequences of climate change and global warming. The Secretariat of State for the Environment and its Directorates-General and subordinate bodies have a budget of EUR 579 million, 103 more than in 2021 in their regular budget, representing an additional 2.85%. Of these, 1502 million come from the Recovery Plan and 2077 million from the regular funding to which it referred. Within the Secretariat of State for the Environment, the Directorate-General for Biodiversity, Forests and Desertification will have a budget of $517.7 million, 174 from the regular budget, plus 343 from the Recovery Plan. The budget for the preservation of biodiversity amounts to 60.13 million when we talk about terrestrial biodiversity. This is why we want to finance a number of actions, but also, of course, to strengthen support, support for farmers and the local administration in order to prevent and facilitate conservation and coexistence with the wolf and large carnivores. In total, an amount of EUR 20 million financed for the first time by the Government of Spain, with the conviction that this is the response consistent with the national dimension for the protection of this species. The conservation of a species and its coexistence with livestock cannot be an exclusive responsibility nor must its cost be borne by farmers; it cannot be a burden for a few. It is everyone's responsibility, it is therefore the responsibility of these budgets, which contain an amount that is greater than the amount that has been allocated annually to the autonomous communities that have the presence of the wolf. The chapter for the preservation of marine biodiversity has a budget of 42,2 million euros. The sea must worry about many reasons: it is one of the main sinks of CO2, it has a fundamental thermostat, it has an immense wealth partly unknown and we know that it has enormous threats to face. As oceanographers like to say, without blue, there's no way there's green. Investment programmes will also be carried out on lines for the digitization and improvement of knowledge of the natural environment, amounting to 34.28 million; for the restoration of ecosystems, with 113 million, among which we include some of the most important projects in some of the most emblematic places in our territory, such as the framework of priority actions for the Minor Sea and the restoration of mining areas in this space. Sustainable forest management is funded with 116 million euros and 135 more from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The extinction of forest fires, reinforcing and accompanying the competence of the autonomous communities, has a budget of 118 million. As you know, the increase in fire risk caused by climate change is exponential. Our means, the anticipation, the strengthening of the services of extinction and Civil Protection is an indisputable priority in the Mediterranean area. It is also so in our country, which has exceptional professionals. In the area of water resources, the Directorate-General for Water will have a budget of EUR 2627 million. The main lines of this budget are intended to increase the level of investment, to maintain support for hydrographic confederations and to bet decisively on the procedures that the European Union requires us to modernise, manage, monitor and sanction, fulfilling the obligations of the Water Framework Directive, also promoting innovation and the development of the perhaps more precious and more complex good, generating social welfare and economic wealth in our country. For this reason, we will invest 505 million, 250 million from the regular budget and 255 million from the Recovery Plan, with emblematic projects in different cities in Spain, responding and accompanying the competent administrations - local and autonomous - in a challenge that unfortunately still keeps us with infringement procedures and enforcement fines at European level. In the restoration and conservation of the hydraulic public domain and defense against floods will be reached 237 million regular budget and 344.6 million of the Recovery Plan, to which will have to be added 917 million managed by the autonomous agencies, that is, the hydrographic confederations of the ministry. Prevention against the risk of flooding, investment, management and the ability to have a resilient response to extreme weather events - which we have unfortunately been accustomed to - is essential. Investments aimed at promoting the National Strategy for the Restoration of Rivers or nature-based solutions such as protection mechanisms, the recovery of shoreline vegetation and channel morphology have a budget of 103.5 million. The security, maintenance and maintenance of infrastructure has a program of 74.5 million, as well as the digital transition in the water sector, capital for the good management and minimization of impacts, both quantitative and qualitative, with 105 million investments, prioritizing sensorization to increase knowledge and better management and use of water resources. The Directorate-General of the Coast and Sea has a total of 190.1 million, 95 from the regular budget and 95 from the Recovery Plan. Again, adaptation to climate change and increased resilience are essential factors in planning actions against erosion, coastal strengthening and the recovery of emblematic spaces, some of which are greatly degraded in the maritime-terrestrial public domain. In this area we will have 10.5 million in recovery of degraded spaces and 8.5 million for improvements in accessibility to the maritime-terrestrial public domain. Within the investments aimed at preserving the territory and restoring ecosystems, I would like to pause for a moment in the budget of the Autonomous National Parks Agency. We have budgeted 47.2 million, 7 million more than in 2021, including investments for the new parks; parks, gentlemen, which you have already supported with your vote, such as the Sierra de las Nieves National Park or the extension of the Maritime-Terrestrial National Park of the Cabrera Archipelago. As you know, the Secretariat of State for the Environment is responsible for environmental assessment policies and the impetus of the circular economy, perhaps one of the most important axes of industrial modernization and the economy in our country. This Directorate-General has a budget of EUR 310 million, which will be earmarked for two major items: the implementation of waste regulations - in processing - and the promotion of the circular economy, with transfers to the 175 million autonomous communities, and in the area of companies with EUR 124.5 million, and we will have important initiatives that we hope will properly develop the law on contaminated waste and soil, in which you are working. The Spanish Climate Change Office has 19.43 million euros, highlighting the contribution to the Carbon Fund with 12.8 million euros, from where we fund innovative projects for the reduction of CO2 emissions. The autonomous bodies attached to the Secretariat of State have a budget of 250 million, which will allow us to finance the actions of the hydrographic confederations, the water community of Taibilla, the Spanish Meteorology Agency and 10.5 million for the Biodiversity Foundation. This challenge of transformation, preservation of biodiversity and response to the climate emergency we face with extraordinary budgetary tools. We believe that protecting our biodiversity, natural resources, the drive of the Green Infrastructure Strategy, the protection of water, territory, coasts, sea, natural parks and betting on the circular economy is essential. The third challenge I referred to at the beginning of my intervention, no less important, is the so-called demographic challenge. We believe that this is a question of the quality of democracy; we believe that this is a key issue in terms of social cohesion in the territory. We believe that it is essential to promote and develop policies for territorial and social cohesion in Spain. This is a cross-cutting policy, involving the commitment of all levels of political action, including all ministerial departments. We want to place special emphasis on measures accompanying young people and women, on the most innovative elements, new technologies and connectivity, as well as strengthening and innovation in the provision of services. Social development, equal access to public services, the generation of rural economies, the gender perspective and the presence of the State in the territory are some of the approaches we have been working on. That is why, in addition to talking about the budget allocated to the General Secretariat, I would like once again to highlight the 130 measures for the demographic challenge, which have a budget of 10 billion since 2021 and of which more than 70% have started their course. It would be pointless to pursue a population challenge policy that did not have this cross-cutting approach on the Government as a whole and on the institutions as a whole. That is why, together with the more than 4200 million announced by the President of the Government, we want to concentrate some of the elements that convey the most important actions in the budget of the General Secretariat of the Challenge. We know that among these headings there are some significant reasons why they represent innovators or testing alternative measures, innovative proposals, especially for young people and women, he said earlier. We have EUR 55.79 million to activate, strengthen the initiatives associated with the deployment of the rural field, cohesion and territorial transformation, the search for innovative projects for territorial transformation and the fight against depopulation, the rural impulse and the generation of new ecosystems through centres of intelligence and territorial innovation, as well as the promotion of measures that allow us to better understand the fields of knowledge and prioritisation in the field of inequalities and territorial response. These are three major challenges to which this vice-presidency and ministry have decided to face, three major challenges in relation to which we hope to be able to count on their support, not only through support for budgets, but also through the interest they show in all these initiatives in their territories, in those demarcations from which they come, in those industrial, economic and social spaces with which they work. The bed is the budgets, but not only; his will, his day-to-day work is decisive. I would therefore like to point out that these budgets, these proposals, are certainly fundamental tools to move towards the goal of a fair recovery, a recovery that will enable our economy to be modernised, that will allow greater social justice, that will enable our young people to move towards the future they deserve. [[The lady]] These budgets for 2022 will undoubtedly contribute to making Spain a more productive, more competitive, more sustainable, more just, more environment-friendly country, to ensuring prosperity for all families within the limits of our planet. These are budgets that will make it possible to move towards a green, digital, gender-free, cohesive and inclusive Spain. That is why, as María Zambrano would say, we do not move from the real to the real, but from the impossible to the real, and with these budgets we make true the ecological transition policies that were not even on the radar of this House a few years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u23	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's closing of a final fringe of the negotiation of the budgets, we say that we will support them in their entirety. And we support them for our commitment to the citizens who need the resources of the State and the European Union, so that services, investments and funds can reach businesses, families, individuals, administrations and boost economic recovery. We support them to facilitate the implementation of the European funds, which must mobilise impact projects for the whole of Spain, but above all we support them to promote the first progress in the fight for the territorial balance contained in these budgets and, therefore, for the recognition of the need for a new, just territorial policy with the territories of the emptied Spain. We will be very vigilant with the implementation of the budget and with the commitments made, among which we would like to highlight the EUR 4200 million earmarked for the demographic challenge, which must be effective in its implementation in order to have the desired effect. And we will also be vigilant in the development and implementation of aid for the operation of companies, which includes additional provision 115, for sparsely populated territories, such as those in Cuenca, Soria and Teruel - as the European Community itself acknowledges - and those adjacent territories with a population density of less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre. In section 23, we have tabled 24 amendments concerning all these aspects. The themes of the projects in this section are economic issues, but they are also central to shaping a new territorial policy. And for us they are not precisely because of the search for territorial advantages for unpopulated areas, but rather because of the need to combat depopulation and its effects wherever it has occurred, because of the need to address the demographic challenge and because of the need to achieve a fair energy transition with the territories that have suffered the impact of mining and the closure of coal thermal power stations. It seems logical that all these issues should be considered in the General Budgets of the State. Similarly, budgets must contribute to a well-regulated and orderly deployment of renewable energies; a deployment of renewables strictly respectful of the rules for the care of the environment, the landscape and the territory; a deployment of renewable energies that contributes to the development of the territory, to promote and distribute wealth through a distributed generation model and, consequently, also to enable the fight against depopulation. In short, with the amendments to section 23, we are trying to ensure that the territories are populated, to reduce the demographic deserts and, therefore, to start reversing the territorial imbalances. The environment concerns us because the environmental crisis has global dimensions and because the Government of Spain and the governments of the autonomous communities are not - in our opinion - taking the necessary decisive steps to prevent the environmental catastrophe that threatens many societies and territories. We are concerned that the climate emergency requires the commitment of society as a whole and more rigorous actions in the protection of the environment, including its socio-economic dimension, agreed between the administrations, as we have advocated, for example, in the Climate Change Act, including the management of a deployment of renewables that is currently out of control and over the micro-centres. On many occasions it is forgotten that the territory - with its physical and environmental variables - is the basic resource of societies and the product of the interaction between society and the environment. It is forgotten that taking care of the territory, as an indispensable resource, is the initial premise of a necessary ecological transition. Consequently, territorial balance is a substantial and indissoluble part of the transition, which is the name and objective of this budget section. Achieving the ecological transition must mean developing the potential of each territory. For this reason, much of our amendments in this and other sections of the budget are part of the fight against territorial imbalances and against depopulation. He said that we have tabled twenty-four amendments to the text of this section, some of which I would like to highlight, for example, amendments specifically aimed at combating depopulation and territorial imbalances through a very diverse set of proposals. Amendment 21, for example, proposes the creation of a State agency against depopulation; 110, promote a study leading to the deconcentration of public enterprises and administrative centres in sparsely populated provinces; 111, analyse the creation of multi-activity offices of the General Administration of the State in sparsely populated areas; 112, promote tractor projects in areas lacking sufficient initiatives and promote them by the Administration itself; and Amendment 29, for the installation of multi-entity ATMs in small municipalities that have lost it. A second group of amendments is aimed at managing water resources by means of small storage, regulation, restoration of river resources or improvement of culverts in the Mediterranean or inland basins. Thus, Amendment 37 proposes the creation of side rafts in the Matarraña river; 104 proposes a reversible water jump to serve as a battery of energy storage between Alcañiz and Samper de Calanda; 40 is carried out for the current Mequinenza-Civán pumping, by converting the installation to photovoltaic energy and the execution of high regulating rafts; 103, for the project of remodeling the dam of the Calanda swamp in the Guadalope river. Another group of amendments focus on the energy transition. 108 proposes to boost energy efficiency in agricultural cooperatives. 109, the valorization of public and private mountains and agricultural areas in the capture of CO2. In turn, with regard to the energy transition, we have tabled an amendment to the article of another kind. It is a proposal for an additional provision that did not entail expenditure. Amendment 117 proposes the creation of a physical model for the deployment of renewable energies for the management of the deployment of power generation facilities through the necessary legislative planning and development tools. It is about ordering the accelerated deployment of renewables, which is clearly focused on the construction of micro-centres without considering local communities, without regard to environmental and landscape values and without addressing the territory in which they are located. The amendment seeks precisely that distributed generation and self-consumption cease to have marginal treatment, as is the case in the current energy transition policy, to play a relevant role in ensuring that this energy change benefits broad sections of the population. The examples can be Germany or Denmark and we cannot walk in the opposite direction. I would also like to highlight a group of amendments which concern matters falling within the competence of this section, such as the care of the forest and the natural environment, which, although they do not involve high and low in the headings, were budgetary amendments. Its implementation would have succeeded in increasing income through taxes. I am referring, for example, to Amendments 113, 114 and 115 to regularise and update the ownership and functioning of partner farms, amendments that seek to activate and regularise 1.5 million hectares of forests and mountains, a huge extension that would allow the activity and resources of unpopulated areas to be increased. I would like to conclude by recalling that achieving the ecological transition means developing the potential of each territory, which in this section 23 are many of the springs that we must mobilize to combat depopulation and to reverse them territorial slopes, that a balanced territory is an essential condition for greater respect for the environment, for a more rational management of resources and for a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u24	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u25	That is, we cannot achieve genuine sustainability if we fail to reduce territorial imbalances and depopulation very significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u27	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Vice-President, my group has tabled quite a variety of amendments within this section. Many of them have been vetoed by the Government, but I will still try to defend or at least record those that have been presented, whether or not they have been vetoed. First of all, we are introducing a legislative amendment to allow an additional fee for staff positions in fire prevention and fire-extinguishing services that are budgeted to comply with statutory or regulatory provisions on the provision of fire-prevention and fire-extinguishing services. These places should be allocated avoiding temporaryity and extending prevention tasks throughout the year, not only on time. This year we have seen terrible fires all over Spain, such as Sierra Bermeja's, in Malaga, and the need not only to equip more fire-fighting personnel, but also to better equip them. In this sense, jobs in extinction and above all in prevention should not be focused only on the summer season, it is necessary to increase material and personal resources throughout the year so that when the most risky season arrives all the prevention tasks that have been carried out have been completed. It is also important to listen to the sector and try to avoid, to the extent possible, that when forest fires are declared, the first equipment to be called to extinction is the same equipment that has worked throughout the day for the maintenance of these sites. The human resources devoted to such a fundamental and dangerous task must be in optimal condition, so we believed that this amendment could solve this problem. In addition to this first, we have tabled an amendment to implement a safe and sustainable reforestation plan, a plan with EUR 1 million. In line with the objective of preventing the recurrence of fires such as that of Sierra Bermeja, we propose this plan for the revision of reforestation strategies, a plan that must be aimed at ensuring that reforestation serves as a fire prevention strategy as well and of course seek the balance between the maintenance of indigenous species with a safe environment in the face of fires. In particular, we have also tabled an amendment to allocate EUR 1 million to the metropolitan forest of Madrid, as it is shown that green infrastructure is a very efficient tool to combat global warming and pollution in cities. With a very limited investment, environmental services of enormous value can be generated, such as cleaning of air and water; filtration, quality and soil fixation; and so on. This is the objective of initiatives such as this metropolitan forest, so we thought it was interesting to support it with a budget allocation in these budgets. We have also tabled an amendment to declare it of general interest, such as works of modernization, restoration or transformation of irrigation, works of repair of irrigation infrastructure, water harvesting, growth, reconstruction of rafts and installation of solar panels for pumping on the island of La Palma. Along with this measure, we believe that there are priorities that should be pursued by these General State Budgets, and it may be very interesting that measures be taken within this budget for the island of La Palma, because we have to see what is still happening there and the recovery that they are going to need. That is why, together with this amendment, we have also tabled one for the reconstruction and improvement of La Palma's network and private irrigation infrastructure, because it is important, as I said, that the budgets include items to solve the most structural problems, but also for the most important ones that are taking place today. Another of the amendments we have tabled is for the creation and financing of a national water use plan, with 16.5 million euros. It is an amendment that we believe could help because we are aware of the different water needs that exist in our country's territory. We believe that it could be a plan that has concrete measures to develop, implementation periods and an economic endowment, as I mentioned earlier, to be implemented through an agreement between the General Administration of the State and the agencies of the mining basin. There is something important that we have presented on some occasion and are, above all, actions on the coast of our country. In this respect, we have tabled several amendments, one for the construction of spikes on the tropical coast of Granada and another for the Valencian coast, with a programme of coastal recovery, to control the regression of the coast of Valencia and for the protection and recovery of the coastal systems of Valencia, because it is important for the Valencian Community given the tourist character of the coast of Valencia. Finally, I would like to highlight an amendment which we tabled last year in the budgets, which we believe should be adopted and which we should support the parliamentary groups, concerning EUR 3 million for the development of the San Silvestre tunnel in Huelva. This amendment explicits a new budget line for financing these works. For Huelva they are very important because it will mean quintupling the water supply capacity in the province if necessary on time, from about 20 cubic meters per second to 100 cubic meters per second. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, really in Galicia we do not feel - and I think we are collecting the majority feeling - portrayed in that account that has just made us of the economic and performance forecasts of the Transitional Ministry because, you see, as far as we know, the only relevant action that is underway at this time, after many years, in Galicia is the regeneration of the ria do Burgo and they do not even want to accept something as elementary as compensating the mariscoadores and mariscoadores for the loss of profits during the period that the works last. You rejected a BNG amendment of just EUR 1 300 000 in order to be able to make that compensation, which is an elementary question of social justice and common sense. Exactly the same in energy transition. We have tabled amendments to promote a plan to compensate closed power plants in Meirama and As Pontes, or specific proposals to create a centre of competitiveness of R & D and energy storage located in As Pontes, or a research center in robotics, autonomous vehicles and smart cities smart systems, or to set up an ecopark of 800 000 square meters in that villa, because it will have to have some economic activity that is able to absorb...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u30	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u31	...the eight hundred jobs that are going to be lost. Similarly, you have rejected different amendments on the regeneration of ecosystems, rivers, rivers, and it does not seem reasonable to us.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u33	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Before we talk about issues, I would like to point out an issue that we have been warning about and that has been confirmed after the COP: the ambition of our Climate Change Act has been cut short; all the reports tell us that we need to accelerate the transformations if we are to achieve the goal of grade and a half. In addition, Spain is awaiting an upward revision of its emissions targets by 2023; therefore, we must anticipate and act urgently. We recognize the efforts made by the minister during the COP in the face of renewed pressure from the gas and nuclear lobbies, but, as we have also been telling the Government, it will cost her the same toll to pile up measures as being brave with them and, for testing, the electricity market. That is why it is important to accelerate the pace of the ecological transition. In this sense, from More Country-Greens Equo we have made amendments that we believe should have been incorporated, such as the ban on the advertising of fossil fuels, in the same way that cigarette advertising is prohibited; fair transition measures, such as climate income, which may be collected through taxes on dirty energy, may return to families, or measures such as those that we are going to approve in these budgets of a technical office for the recovery of the Sea Minor, where a real ecocide has been committed for years and for which citizens have also called for the recognition of their legal personality in order to be able to protect it before the courts. You have the numbers and the support to move forward, minister. Be brave, let yourself be accompanied because we are playing a lot, we are playing no more or less than the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, you will know - like the rest of the ladies and gentlemen - what our position and our vote on the General Budgets of the State will be. We therefore welcome, first of all, the incorporation of some amendments relating to its areas of work, such as the stabilisation of the beaches of Cabrera de Mar and Vilassar, for an amount of EUR 4 million, or the adaptation of a significant part of the Rialb reservoir, worth almost EUR 100,000. We also welcome some issues that had already emerged from the General Budgets of the State, such as the increase in the social thermal bonus, which we share and which we know is ready to discuss when we consider it appropriate from the ministry. However, we regret, Vice-President, some issues that are important to us and that we have been defending for years in the General Budgets of the State, that have not yet been incorporated, nor this time, and that we will continue to defend in other spaces and in other frameworks. I am talking about the regeneration of some parts of the Catalan coast; I am talking about the damage caused in some cases by different temporals that have left a mark and remain pending to be repaired, and that goes from north to south throughout the Catalan coast; I am thinking of different sea walks that are the competence of your ministry and that suffer a little bit of leniency, such as Malgrat de Mar or Lloret de Mar or on issues that have to do with the improvement of energy efficiency of public spaces and centers that need an injection of resources to be updated and improved, and I am also thinking of the projects that we have presented and defended from the Institut d'Arquitectura Avanzada de Catalunya, which aim to put architecture at the service of a new way of building more sustainable, more environmentally friendly, researching new materials, as well as classic materials such as wood. We have also tabled an amendment which is very important to us, because we believe that the Administration should always be a facilitator of things, and sometimes because of bureaucracy or lack of resources it becomes an agent who ends up doing the opposite. That is why we are putting forward an amendment to extend the deadlines so that promoters of renewable energy projects can have more time. You know that the lack of resources from the Administration does not allow it to comply with its deadlines and commitments, which commits the promoters in fulfilling theirs. We believe that, for the good of all, for the sake of a good energy transition and, also, for the good image of the Administration, it was important that this amendment be accepted, that these deadlines be extended, extended so that everyone could meet their deadlines. Finally, Vice-President, you know - because I know you are aware - that a few weeks ago in front of this house is Caesar Vea, who claims a solution for his case, which has brought him and his family to ruin, like so many others. I know that the situation is complex, I know that the ministry is aware of this situation, but I ask you, please, from this rostrum, that, if it is not through budgets, it be by another way, but that they seek a solution because we all know that it is of justice. Thank you for everything and you have us at your full disposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, reinterpreting Maria Zambrano, these budgets do not go from the real to the real, nor do they go from the impossible to the real. We are faced with a failed budget for a failed government that is supported by a failed government pact for the interests of Spain and a failed Vice-President, who is the one you lead in this government. This budget is going to be very expensive to the Spaniards and very profitable to those who do not want to be Spanish, and a government that cares more about those who do not want to be Spanish than the Spaniards, must leave. [[Applauds]] They are budgets that mortgage the future of our country, that lie, like almost everything your Government says and does; they are budgets that will create the greatest fiscal pressure in our history, that do not bet on the circular economy, it is more, that penalize our country's industry; budgets that force the Spaniards to choose between the fight against climate change, the environment or the economic competitiveness of our country. Madam Vice-President, do you not realize that without the economy there will be no transition, that if the economy and the fight against climate change do not go hand in hand it will not be possible? Look, Europe has said no to everything, the last thing to energy policy, that they are paying the pockets of the Spanish. The growth policies that our country needs - and which are at the heart of the green deal - are betting on more investment, public-private collaboration, greater social cohesion, greater territorial cohesion; quite the opposite of what its Government is doing. Its environmental policy is typical of the most racy left and of a nightly political ecology that does not trust private initiative, that does not trust families in Spain and that does not trust the commitment we all have in the fight against climate change. These are the tax budgets. With regard to the waste law that you mentioned, we will not tire of saying that it is a law that does not contemplate the impact it will have on the economy of families, on the economy of industry, on the economy of SMEs and the self-employed in our country. You were talking about social justice and fair transition, but you will know that over the past year the basics of the shopping basket have risen by more than 15% and that the annual CPI rate is rising to historical levels; that is neither a fair transition nor a social justice for the Spanish. A law, by the way, that will affect more than a million companies in our country, which have not been heard. In the meantime, the Banco de España and the European Commission are calling for prudence and responsibility in setting up new taxes. This is a budget that abandons the water infrastructure policy; moreover, your government - you - has vetoed an amendment in which we propose to contemplate that the works of the National Hydrological Plan and the basin plans could be financed with European funds Next Generation. Madam Vice-President, the People's Party has tabled amendments which we hope will be accepted by the Government so that water infrastructure can be built in our country, precisely those which you are not doing, and, also, that we can be close to the regents, those which you abandon even though you are walking through Alicante without talking, absolutely nothing, about the Tajo-Seguro transfer that you want to close. Madam Vice-President, the environmental policy our country needs...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u38	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u39	... It is an environmental policy that has to be done with SMEs, with the self-employed and with industries, not against them, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Herrero Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It seems, Mrs Ribera, that you have come here to want to fall asleep to parliamentarians and try to go unnoticed, but it is that by analyzing the General Budgets of the State in its section 23 you re-advertise your ideology to reality. [[applause]] You have already been a minister of the demographic and energy challenge for more than three years and you have not implemented a single measure that benefits our territory. Mrs Ribera, you are vice-president because they said that the demographic challenge was the great bet of your ministry, but do you really believe, Mrs Ribera, that 55 million euros, out of the 12 307 that you have your section, are enough to help Spain with opportunities? Madam Vice-President, you were boasting about the introduction of the additional one hundred and fifth provision of the 20% bonus of the labour costs to companies in the depopulated Spain and it turns out that the amendment we introduced to put it into effect next January is coming from you and selling it to us. You've got a lot of cardboard! You and those who, like Teruel Existe, support him in exchange for nothing. Look, they gave him a job to help empty Spain and all he's done is legislate in the environmental, climate and energy area against our territories. And speaking of energy, Mrs Ribera, you arrived as minister in June 2018 and the energy price was 64 euros megawatt, and three years later the average of this last month of October has been 208 euros megawatt. You have multiplied the cost of energy by more than 200 %. That was his contribution. [[Applauds]] Mrs Ribera, you will be known for being the minister who ruined the industrial and economic sectors of our country. If not, tell the suffering farmers in our country, who today are manifested, among other things, by the sharp rise in agricultural diesel - more than 35% -. Or to the transport sector, which you have left behind and so much damage you are doing with your energy policies, with the rise of fuels more than 32%. Or get out here and tell the Cadiz workers or the big industries in our country - Alcoa, Sidenor, Fertiberia - that their energy measures are leading them to closure and relocation. Madam Vice-President, we have been warning you since last January with the drunken Filomena, but you have no case. You have brought to this House, and after two years of delay, an electro-intensive status that does not benefit the great industry of our country at all. Or like that proposed law to reduce CO2 dividends, the only thing that it does is intervene in the electricity market without consensus or participation. But in addition you have vetoed us one hundred amendments in your section, of which ninety-two are used to lower the bill for the light of families, SMEs and industries in our country. Indeed, Mrs Ribera, accept the reduction in the electricity bill from 21 % to 4 %; reduce VAT on gas supply from 21 % to 10 %, as my group has justified, because otherwise you will be responsible for the closure, relocation of businesses and suffering of the most vulnerable in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u43	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this Government is really committed to issues relating to the fight against the ecological crisis, the fight against climate change and the defence of biodiversity, and that is one of the fields where we really differ from the rights of this country, which are divided between the obstructionism of the People's Group and the denialism of VOX. Just a few days ago the climate summit ended in Glasgow, whose conclusion can be summed up in a sentence by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, who said that there is not enough global will to deal with climate change. Unfortunately, governments' commitments are currently far from leaving us in that rise in temperatures below 1.5°C. According to the United Nations, we are now, with the current commitments, at 2.7. But it has to be said that, of the two hundred countries that were at the summit, only eight countries arrived with the duties done, and Spain was one of the eight countries, Spain had its climate objectives set out in a law, the Climate Change Act that we adopted here only a few months ago. It is true that the moment demands greater commitments and, therefore, we believe that in the current context a new effort of ambition is needed and that Spain can and must go further. But let us talk about energy, because energy transformation is a fact, and I think that more than just talking about budget lines, it is interesting to make an analysis of what is happening in our country and what these budgets are driving. Because we are driving a transformative scenario that supports five pillars, which are also recommended by the International Renewable Energy Agency: electrification, flexibility to drive the electric vehicle and also energy storage, ambitious renewable energy targets, green hydrogen and innovation to decarbonise the most complex sectors and achieve zero emissions. These budgets are committed to this. Renewable energy has experienced staggering cost reductions since 2010 and it is clear that the decline will continue to be dizzying in the coming years. In fact, wind power this year is already the largest source of energy production in our country. Both from an environmental and investment efficiency point of view, renewables win. Indeed, the sun does not shine at night, but the wind blows and, moreover, the energy can accumulate, and in the technologies of accumulation we are advancing more and more and these budgets are certainly pushing them. By the way, there are already more than ten countries in the world that have a 100% renewable or practically renewable energy mix, and many others exceed 90%. We talk about countries like Norway, Iceland, Paraguay, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Denmark, etc. The nuclear energy you defend is a form of decaying energy production. A few days ago, French President Macron announced plans to boost nuclear energy with a large barrel and plate, but it should be remembered that in 2006 France announced the construction of a new nuclear power plant, Flamanville 3, which should have been operational in 2012 if EDF had managed to solve the latest safety problems affecting the welding and which have forced to alter the design. So now the opening date is 2022-2023. The initial plan envisaged a cost of EUR 3300 million and now, according to the latest estimates, we are talking about EUR 19 billion. Please do the numbers: Flamanville, the French nuclear reactor, is an economic disaster. With the same investment as that for this reactor, which will generate about 12.5 terawatts per year, 31,500 megawatts of solar photovoltaic energy can be built in Spain, which would produce 60 terawatts an hour, i.e. five times more. There could be 26,000 megawatts of wind, 55 terawatts an hour, five times more than this nuclear power plant would be. By the way, you who look so much at the price of light and defend both nuclear and alternative, do you know what the price of light is today in Spain? 225 euros megawatt/hour. Do you know which one is in France, with its nuclear power plants? Almost 300 euros megawatt/hour, much more expensive. That is the reality of the alternative that you propose, an economically inefficient reality, which has absolutely no environmental meaning and which, of course, cannot be described as green. Of course, this government is also committed to the defence of biodiversity, a matter of the utmost global concern. Steps are being taken in the right direction to protect our natural spaces and endangered species, and there is the cataloguing of the Iberian wolf as a protected species, a decision that is remarkably beneficial to our environment. As for the protection of our spaces and our species, there is nothing more to see than the situation of the ill-treated Mar Menor to understand the policies of the People's Party in this regard, a party that has been ruling for thirty years in the Murcia Region. [[Rumors]] Finally, population challenge policies. During the years of the Rajoy government the policies of demographic challenge and the policies against depopulation had an allocated budget of zero euros; there was the position, the position of responsible against depopulation was created, but they had zero euros. That is why the budget increase is now 193 %, that is, a spectacular increase. For the first time, we are going to implement not only wills, but policies and budgets in so many areas that have to do with digital connectivity, with tourism, with so many projects that arise from local communities themselves and that will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the so-called emptied Spain. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we can all say that these are budgets that respond to the need of this country to deal effectively with this ecological transition and to continue to lead the global ecological struggle and the green struggle, which is something our planet needs and which our young people are demanding more and more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u44	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's more than eleven o'clock in the morning and while you were having a hot coffee, a woman named Fatima had been up for five hours because she needed to ride more than an hour on a bike to her job, frozen cold, to get to the residence where she works as a cleaner. And you know why? Because Fatima lives in a small village in Ávila, in that rural Spain, abandoned, forgotten and without infrastructure on which no government has had the decency to make general budgets that take them into account. No government. Fatima has eight children that she tries to carry out on her own, because she is a single and working mother. Do you know that Fatima wasn't worried about you, Minister? He is not worried about what appears in these budgets, nothing, nor the resilience of his investments, nor the millionaire subsidies to his climate bars to justify his eco-suicide policies. Minister, after all you've said, are you going to lower the price of light, yes or no? [[Applauds]] For this is what matters to Fatima; to Fatima and to all Spaniards. Fatima doesn't even care about the thermal social bonus you talked about here today that's so proud. You know why? Because it doesn't work. It simply does not help the most vulnerable families. Because, minister, it is unworkable for these families to collect this help with all the raging bureaucracy they require. Do you know the average time the administration is taking to grant thermal bonds or, rather, thermal cards to the most vulnerable families? Eight months, and sometimes up to sixteen months. Do you know what this time means for families without resources? Minister, 90% of the most vulnerable families in Spain do not have a rental contract, and it is part of the demand for the thermal bonus. Therefore, 90% of the most vulnerable families in Spain are automatically out of their thermal chart. The same applies to minimum living income. Its tools are poorly designed, not working and only demonstrate the misery in which its policies sink to the Spaniards and also how far this government is from the reality of the Spaniards, especially the most vulnerable. Look, currently one in four families lives in a state of energy poverty, they can't turn on heating, they live in fear of turning on the light switch. Now, in the queues of hunger, in addition to food they also ask for candles, and it is not a joke, minister. And it's curious, because I warned him before summer, when I told him that, if he continued his poor energy management, the Spaniards would end up lighting with candles; what I didn't know was that to this day the supply was going to cause even that there are barely any candles left in Spain. Minister, I would like to ask you: How many Fatima's could we help with the 525 million euros of the Ministry of Equality or the 570 million programs in aid to immigrants? [[Applauds]] You know that the lack of transport infrastructure, health, education and basic services are condemning rural Spain to become emptied Spain. Have you wondered how we could provide better infrastructure to the rural world with just these two items that I have just mentioned, which amount to almost EUR 11 billion? What would happen if we invested them where it really is needed, which is to help the Spanish population? It would happen that you, instead of wearing the pin of colors, would wear the one of Agenda Spain. [[Applauds]] A national hydrological plan that would connect all the basins would give natural wealth to our fields and to the rural world never seen before in Spain. Do you know how many jobs, how many jobs each hectare of irrigation creates? Be careful, between two and three. This means almost five million jobs in rural Spain, which would help to set a population while creating huge CO2 sinks, and we are also fighting desertification. Unfortunately, we do not see in these budgets a single item that fights dry Spain, which improves the interconnection of basins so that water can reach all the regions and territories of Spain. The Ministry of Energy Ruin has carried out the worst energy policy at the worst possible time: sectarian, interventionist and plumber, at a time of severe tension in international markets and with the lowest gas reserves in Europe in ten years. The politicians of the PP and the PSOE have been systematically kneeling in the face of globalist interests and have gradually destroyed our energy sovereignty, shutting down thermal and nuclear power plants, causing us to come to this situation today: more energy-dependent third countries with such a strategic and fundamental good as energy. [[Applauds]] The most important items of these budgets are taken by investments in renewables, as you have said, but we know that they are a damp role for the economy, taking into account the enormous legal uncertainty that you have generated with your interventionist and, moreover, ineffective measures, which the European Union has rejected head-on - as has already been said - and which leave Spain at the top of the ranking of European countries to invest in renewables, putting in check mate up to its own climate objectives contained in the Pnieb. The industry suffers and suffers and finds no solution in these budgets. Sidenor was the first company to announce a stoppage in its production for having tripled its production costs. Then he followed a long list, more than 20,000 jobs at stake, and in the end they will get Spain to end up being an industrial desert. In short, you do not want to water with water, but you want to water with money from all the workers a new deindustrialisation. They want workers to pay with their own salaries and taxes the destruction of their jobs. And we say that taxes, the minimum necessary; that they use these European funds to repopulate Spain, to bring water to all regions, to recover our energy, our energy sovereignty and competitiveness, to ultimately enrich millions of Spaniards. Not only are we going to have false budgets, which condemn the Spaniards to more clientelism and ruin, but we also continue to have the worst and most expensive government in history, with the most sinister allies in this country. Look, Minister, do you see this gentleman? [[Show a picture]] This guy here, arrested, is Arnaldo Otegi, who has allowed these budgets to be carried out. And we already know in exchange what allows a stage that something is approved: prisoners for budgets. This is infamous. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u47	Thank you, President, Vice President. Today we present here the budgets without doubt more investors and more expansive in terms of demographic challenge and combating the depopulation that this country has had, and we do so, logically, by incorporating European funds. This government and its President have had to make a great effort to make these funds a reality today and to be seen within this budget, despite Mr Casado's snout, who every time he went to Europe, put sticks on the wheel to prevent them from reaching this country. This budget that we are going to adopt this week will contribute as a tool, as an indispensable instrument not only to the economic recovery of this country, arising from the pandemic crisis, but to its much-needed territorial rebalancing, and to ensuring equal opportunities for all territories, especially territories at risk of depopulation. And we are going to do so through a clear road map, through those 130 measures that we have adopted in the Council of Ministers over the past few months; 130 measures with a clear road map, with clear policies that we are going to carry out together with the autonomous communities to combat depopulation and face the demographic challenge and with a significant difference from other projects that have been approved: this time we have enough funding and millions of dollars to be able to carry them out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this budget has EUR 4200 million to combat depopulation; EUR 4200 million, I repeat. Indeed, it is shameful that you come up to this rostrum to question all these millions, all this investment, especially when during Mr Rajoy's years of government you did not invest a single euro, I repeat, or a single euro to fight against depopulation in this country. [[Applauds]] And we're going to do it through the lines and projects that we're already starting. We will do so with our broadband extension plan, with Our commitment to digitizing this country, because in the coming years we have that commitment that the coverage of the 100 percent of the territory is covered by this broadband and the 5G, which will be the only way to activate economic activity for all these territories that need it so much. We will do so through the defence of quality public services, guaranteeing these public services throughout the territory, our health, our education, which you put especially at risk and permanently attack. For example, especially in health, in my land, in Castile-Leon, every day they do everything possible to damage it. Thus it is impossible for people to set population or to stay in the territory. If there is one measure that I want to highlight from these budgets, it is the decentralization process that this Government is going to carry out, so that we will be able to implement a lot of decentralization projects of state agencies and institutions in all the provinces, in all the territories of Spain at risk of depopulation that so much need it. They are going to be exciting, hopeful projects, which will generate economic activity, especially for two aspects of society that need special assistance: firstly, for young people, who will be given the opportunity not to emigrate, for them to stay on their territory or to return those who have had to leave it and, secondly, for women, with our commitment to female employment in all the territories of rural Spain, in territories at risk of depopulation, because, as the Socialists have always said, without women these territories will never have a future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Fagundez. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Caballero Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u49	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, you said that the energy transition is very expensive for you in this country. What do you think, then, of last week's judgment on the Board of Castile and Leon, in which a judge sentenced her to pay EUR 24 million as a subsidiary civil servant for widespread corruption in the implementation of the windmills? [[Applauds]] This is expensive for all Spaniards; again corruption. Today, however, we highlight the leadership in the fight against climate change of our third vice-president and minister for the Ecological Transition, who has led the international dialogue on climate change adaptation policies. I don't know if you see the difference. The difference is: leadership in the fight against climate change against corruption in the implementation of wind turbines. By the way, she is vice-president, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, not only because of the demographic challenge, but because environmental policy has to permeate all policies. All policies must be adapted to climate change; perhaps sometimes, over the years, they come to understand that concept. This is the first budget that has been made with the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act of our country already in force and, by the way, the commitments you have are minimal, Mrs Sabanes, although you are not in the Chamber right now. They are minimal commitments because we have already agreed that from now on, from now on, always at least those that contemplate the law. It responds to Spain's commitment to facilitate the decarbonisation of the Spanish economy and promote adaptation to the impacts of climate change. It is the second largest budget in the history of the Ministry of the Environment: 10 195 million euros to transform our productive model, make us more resilient to our environmental reality and get out of the crisis faster and stronger. For the deployment of renewables, which is the structural reform of this Government, to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, 1320 million euros are allocated, almost half in energy efficiency of buildings and in energy storage, because renewable energy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, can be stored. EUR 441 million is also allocated to promote business and new jobs in decarbonised areas, increasing by 50% the share of the social shield for vulnerable consumers, and EUR 2200 million for actions of sustainable, secure and connected mobility throughout the value chain, in line with the loss of cars, as well as the boost to other alternative fuels, such as renewable hydrogen, with EUR 555 million. Gentlemen of the PP, this is the real pact for energy. These budgets allocate EUR 2572 million to adapt to climate change and implement a sustainable development model that generates decent employment, and of these, EUR 1630 million only for water policies, to improve the quality and quantity of water available for other uses. When we arrived at the Government, 17 urban agglomerations failed to meet their sanitation obligations; today there are only seven in three years. Gentlemen of the PP, this is the real National Water Pact. But there are also 509 million for the fight against desertification, defense against fires, 300 million to boost the circular economy, 162 to protect the coasts from the effects of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, since the restoration of democracy after forty years of dictatorship, it has been the Socialist Party that has addressed the major reforms that have made Spain a more free and modern country, guaranteeing the welfare state and now also the fight against climate change and the transformation of our productive model, sustainable development, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Because we, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are committed to leaving a better country than we are when we arrive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Knight. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 24, Culture and Sport We continue with the debate in section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport. For the presentation of the section, the Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u51	Thank you very much and good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the satisfaction of the broad parliamentary agreement reached and with the thanks to the groups that have made it possible, I rise to the rostrum to defend the draft Law on General State Budgets as regards section 24, referred to by the Ministry of Culture and Sport. As I have already had occasion to express on several occasions, from the government we have conceived the budget as a key tool for the rebirth of culture and sport in Spain. The budget is an important lever for achieving this objective. Culture and sport are a framework of rights, but they are also part of our system of values, built throughout history and which defines us as a society and as a country. In addition, they constitute an industry that generates wealth and employment, with enormous growth potential both nationally and internationally, and can and should be an important strategic engine for economic and employment recovery. As the Minister of Finance and Public Service, María Jesús Montero, pointed out in her appearance, this Government wants the world of culture to have in these accounts the opportunity to take a new impulse and be a motor, too, of recovery and dynamism. Culture and sport budgets must be an engine for accelerating the modernization of the productive fabric of the cultural and sports sector. They must promote the growth of this industry, productivity and competitiveness of these sectors. They must generate jobs and help overcome the precarious economic situation in which professionals and companies in these sectors move. And that's the project I'm presenting to you today. The overall figure of EUR 1589 million which the Spanish Government will allocate to cultural and sports policies represents an increase of 38,4 % compared to this year's, and is, ladies and gentlemen, the highest budget in the historical series. This figure represents EUR 364 million from the European funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which we will distribute to the autonomous communities to carry out policies aimed at promoting culture and sport. Even without this investment of European funds, the budget for the year 2022 in culture is the highest since 2009. They are ambitious budgets that aim to contribute to a fair recovery, to social reconstruction, to social and territorial vertebration and cohesion, and to the cultural and sporting renaissance that must take place in 2022. We have two fundamental objectives: the first, supporting the industrial fabric and contributing to its recovery after the pandemic; and the second, promoting cultural and sporting habits and creating new audiences, especially among the youngest. In short, it is about getting out of the crisis stronger, more creative, more prepared, with more culture and more sport. With this ambition, the budgets envisage for the first time an item of 210 million euros destined for the young cultural bonus. We estimate that a total of approximately half a million young Spaniards, those who are eighteen years old throughout 2022, will be able to benefit from a bonus of 400 euros for the consumption of cultural products and activities. The two main objectives of the cultural bonus are: first, to facilitate the access of younger audiences to culture and to revitalize and boost the cultural industry following the effects of the pandemic on the sector; and, secondly, to promote the retention of the habit of consuming cultural products among young people, so that as adults they continue to consume cultural products assiduously. The ministry has carried out a detailed study of the application of this type of initiative in other countries such as France and Italy and we are designing the Spanish bonus, which will establish mechanisms for young people to know and consume different types of experiences and cultural products: concerts, performing arts, cinema, books, museums, etc. The cultural bonus is further proof that government accounts provide strong support to young people, and we also seek to revitalize and revitalize the industries and cultural sectors most affected by the pandemic. I would also like to highlight the important commitment to strengthen the staff at the disposal of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in order to be able to manage better, so as to be able to offer the best service to citizens. In particular, EUR 7 million more has been planned than in 2021. This investment responds to the increased supply of public employment for culture in recent decades. This will make it possible to increase the incorporation of civil servants into the bodies of archivists, librarians and conservators of the State. A total of around five hundred new employees and public employees will be incorporated. As I pointed out at the beginning, we have the will to relaunch the cultural sector, to promote cultural rebirth, so necessary after the toughest moments of the pandemic. A clear example of this desire is the film section, which will have 97 million euros, about 10 million more than this year, adding aid to support cinemas and also fulfilling the mandate of Article 3 of the Spanish Constitution, which mandates us to protect all the languages of Spain. On the other hand, the performing arts, dance, circus and live music, managed by the National Institute of Performing Arts, will have a budget of 171 million euros, 8.8 million more than in 2021. This will allow us to expand competitive competition aids aimed at boosting theatre, circus, dance, lyric and music. Another sector that will see its economic endowment increased is the book and reading sector. The objective is to consolidate the increase in reading experienced during the pandemic. We want citizens to continue reading, to read more. Thus, the budget allocated to the book in 2022 and reading is increased by 13% compared to 2021 and reaches a total of EUR 22 821 000. Among the projects to be financed are the acquisition of digital books for the eBible application, which doubles to EUR 1 400 000, and the internationalization and promotion of the Spanish book and letters, which increases by 19%. We also increase activities and grants for the promotion of reading. We created for the first time aid to local authorities for the promotion of reading with EUR 1 400 000. Ladies and gentlemen, as you already know, on 24 October Spain took over Canada as a guest country at the Frankfurt Book Fair. Thus, next year, thirty-one years after our participation in 1991, we held the rank of guest of honor at the Book Fair of Frankfurt 2022, the most important international publishing sector, where 80% of global copyright is negotiated. The recovery budgets also have greater allocations for cultural institutions. Thus, the Prado National Museum has 9.7 million more than in 2012. Of these, 2.2 million will be for temporary exhibitions and another 7 will be for the necessary rehabilitation and museum adaptation works of the Kingdom Hall. For its part, the budget of the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía has 4 million euros more; this increase will be destined for the acquisition of works of contemporary art and with this we also intend to promote the production of art in our country. As for the Fundación Colección Thyssen-Bornemisza, its endowment is increased by 11 million euros, which will be destined for the conservation, study, public exhibition and dissemination of the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection, in which also works of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza collection are exhibited. For its part, the National Library of Spain has an additional 1.2 million euros, an additional 4.48%, with which it will face an increase in exhibitions and the improvement of library services. These budgets are very territorial; in other words, they have a strong presence in Spain as a whole, from the rural area to the large cities and capitals of our geography. In the case of Madrid, for example, the territorialised expenditure for 2022 amounts to 54 million euros, 21.5 million euros more than the previous year, representing an increase of 66.25% over 2021. If we consider the investments in the Museo Nacional del Prado, 55,6 million euros, plus those of the Reina Sofia Art Center, 42,3 million euros, plus those of the National Library, 32,2 million euros, the total investment of the Government of Spain in cultural institutions in the Community of Madrid is 184,1 million euros. To this should be added an important part of the 171 million budgeted in the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, and I refer to those corresponding to the National Drama Centre, the Royal Theatre, the Teatro de la Zarzuela, the National Auditorium of Music, the National Music Dissemination Centre, the National Classical Theatre Company, the Spanish National Ballet and the National Dance Company, all of which, by the way, have permanent headquarters in Madrid. You know that there are those who say that this government neglects Madrid, but I believe that the figures clearly deny that fear or that accusation. I would also like to stress that we have once again included, one more year, the EUR 20 million earmarked for Barcelona's cultural capital. The aim is nothing other than to recover and intensify the State's cultural and scientific relationship with Barcelona. Madrid and Barcelona are clearly and clearly two of the main Spanish scientific cultural capitals, in addition to two of the main European capitals in these areas. We must take advantage of the fact that together Madrid and Barcelona, Barcelona and Madrid are unbeatable and that by strengthening the cultural and scientific heritage and wealth of these two cities all of Spain is gaining. [[Applauds]] It also has to do with the territorialization of budgets the allocation for investments in the buildings of Culture, both those of direct management by the ministry and when it has been transferred to the autonomous communities. In this respect, budgets are increased by EUR 7 million, to EUR 43 million. This represents an increase of almost 20% over the 2021 accounts. Let me give you some examples: the adequacy of the former convent of the Conception for the headquarters of the Archivo de Burgos, the demolition of the existing building in the building for the future public library of the State in Barcelona, the rehabilitation of the public library of the State in Valladolid, the works of adaptation of the former convent of San Agustín for the headquarters of the public library of the State in Malaga, the works of rehabilitation of the public library of the State in Alicante, the works of rehabilitation of the Museum of the Wall in Mallorca, the expansion of the National Museum of Roman Art in Mérida, the rehabilitation of the Museum of Caceres, the expansion of the Sorolla Museum in Madrid, the renovation and rehabilitation of the Palace of the Eagles in Ávila and the rehabilitation of the Archaeological Museum in Ourense. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude my speech on the cultural sector by stressing that the cultural policy of the current ministerial team and of this Government does not include any plans for the transfer of works in national museums. I say this because the words are carried by the wind, but the budget lines are there. And for the record: there is no decision, no intention, no budget item, no future plan that will diminish the role of national museums or that will affect the integrity of their collections. [[Applauds]] On the contrary, the efforts are focused on implementing collections, concessions or new acquisitions, such as the purchase of the Crucifixion painting of El Greco - as published in the State Official Gazette last Friday, 19-, which will be destined for the collection of the Museum of the Greco, in Toledo. This painting, by the way, will be the first work of the artist to enter the museum's funds since it was founded in 1910. I repeat, this will be the first work to be added to the museum's funds since 1910. In any case, I take the opportunity to recall that national museums belong to the whole of the citizenry, regardless of their specific location, which is why they are called national museums. [[Applauds]] As far as sport is concerned, I would like to point out that the EUR 315 million earmarked for sport represents the largest investment in sport in history: EUR 208 million from the regular budget and EUR 107 million from the recovery plan. If we take into account that in the 2021 budgets there were extra items to cover the Olympic and Paralympic Games, this 25% increase means, in real terms, a consolidation and a stake in sport as an engine for the economy and society. With regard to the regular budget of the Higher Sports Council, there has been an increase of 7 million, five of which are earmarked for the launch of the women's professional football league. As you can see, we are also strengthening the equality policies to which we are committed by the Government. The Sectoral Conference on Sport, held last 8 November, approved the allocation of 75 million among the autonomous communities to modernize fifty-four high-performance sports centres and sports technology, including the financing of actions aimed at replacing the current energies they use in their operation with others with lower pollutant emissions, as well as the renovation of equipment to achieve the maximum energy efficiency of each of the systems available to them. It is a series of actions that align with the ecological transition objectives contained in the Government-driven Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. For its part, of the funds from the recovery funds, EUR 31.8 million will be allocated entirely to the Social Plan for Sport, which includes projects for equality, inclusion and social sports policies. Regular investments in sports federations increase to EUR 55 886 750, an increase of almost EUR 3 million over the previous year. A million and a half euros will be earmarked for sports technology and promotion programmes. These are, in short, budgets for further promoting social cohesion in sport. Similarly, there is an investment of EUR 2.55 million for sport and women, social aid for women sportsmen, with EUR 400 000; aid to federations with inclusive sports projects, with EUR 750,000, and aid to federations for sports activities of school age is increased by more than 50%, as well as aid to the autonomous communities, with a new allocation for equipment for technology centres with EUR 1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out before, we are faced with very ambitious budgets that must bring about a revival of culture and sport after the pandemic. I hope that, in this commitment of the Government to boost culture and sport, the various political groups will agree that, with the support I ask your ladies and gentlemen to these budgets and specifically to this section, we will be able to promote the cultural and sporting revival that Spanish society demands and deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Culture and Sport, thank you for the explanations referred to in the section of the draft Law on General Budgets of the State, concerning the department of which you are the holder. Allow me first of all to support the amendments that various Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group have tabled to this section 24, namely those tabled by Union del Pueblo Navarro, Teruel Existe, Coalition Canaria and Nueva Canarias. On behalf of the Forum, I have also made different amendments that can be described as testimonials, because I know in advance the expeditious treatment that, to my regret, the Government of Pedro Sánchez gives to various cultural constraints that affect Asturias specifically and that, in some respects, reflect the inequality with which Spanish people are treated for similar needs. On the other hand, I have been the author of one of the six amendments of the whole tabled in the process of this bill, because I believe that it is a tool that will deepen the institutional and territorial dismantling to which the Government of Pedro Sánchez and the Frankenstein coalition that has supported it since the infamous motion of censure of 2018 and, specifically, in this XIV Legislature are dragging us. Mr Iceta, I had some hope that by assuming the ownership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport after your fleeting passage through Territorial Administrations, you were going to provide new airs to a department that languishes within the PSOE-UP government, but with this budget project we are still in the same dynamic; and without leaving the appropriations and items relating to my land, it is already clear that we are in the most of the same. Once again, the important resources derived from what is popularly known as 1.5% cultural, which derive from the projects of public works and construction of infrastructures go back a long way in Cornellana, Salas, and the government disagrees with the urgency in the rehabilitation of the monastery of San Salvador de Cornellana that was already diagnosed in 2009, when governing Mr Rodríguez Zapatero signed an agreement reflecting the intentions to undertake a rehabilitation that involved, in addition to the recovery of the building, the creation of a documentary center of the Camino de Santiago and hostry. A first phase was carried out - it should be noted - but in the public accounts for 2022, as regards the Ministry of Transport that is running there the A-63 highway, between Oviedo and La Espina, they again forget those intentions and the Ministry of Culture has also not taken care of. Reference that last week again included this monastery, whose origins date from 1021, in the red list of monuments that are totally or partially at risk of ruin and collapse. Under section 17 I tabled an amendment of EUR 1.7 million in favour of the emergencies of the Cornellana monastery. Rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government also disagrees with the ruinous state in which other icons of the Camino de Santiago are found in their passage through Asturias. The monastery of San Antolín de Bedón, in Llanes, and that of Santa Maria de Obona, in Tineo. I have tried to correct such oblivion by way of amendments in this section 24, as it amended in favour of the Asturian pre-Romanian - declared by the UNESCO World Heritage - who, in addition to a historical reference of the very first order, is one of the windows that identifies us before the world and attracts thousands of visitors every year. The governments of Spain and the Principality are taking part in the hunger for the preservation of the pre-Romanian. I would also like to refer to the inequality of budgetary treatment that the Oviedo Opera Festival Foundation receives compared to other similar events, which do not underestimate, but which have seen consolidated and even increased state economic support. We are facing a cultural aggravation for Asturias, for whom, from the Asturian operatic foundation, they make a great sacrifice to the point that they have maintained their programming and are celebrating their 75th anniversary, a significant ephemeride that well deserved the consideration of the Ministry of Culture to strengthen their economic support for this great cultural event that involves the assistance of many lyrical fans, both from Asturias and other nearby regions. Therefore, Mr Iceta, when we talk about support for the cultural industry, we must recriminate your lack of fairness in the distribution of aid. You referred in your speech, Minister, to the budgetary effort for the Prado Museum in 2022, which I am glad to say, although I take the opportunity to remind you that on the walls of our first national gallery there hangs a painting of Goya entitled Winning Hannibal, which was squamated from the artistic legacy of the Selgas-Fagalde Foundation, created by its promoters to be exhibited in Asturias for the enjoyment of all Spaniards, but in Asturias. I think it is great that you guarantee the integrity of the pictorial backgrounds of the national museums and you will understand that, with that same argument, some of us defend the integrity of the Asturian collections that have their space right there, in the Principality. Ladies and gentlemen, over the course of these weeks of processing, there have been a number of gaps in the income and expenditure chapters. This will come to the detriment of our own culture, as we will unfortunately see over the next year. Finally, I will make a brief reference to sport. From sports renaissance you have qualified it. I would like to keep abreast of what happened at the Higher Sports Council because, Mr.Iceta, the Executive has not taken sports policy seriously. Valga shows that the Government has used the presidency of the Superior Council of Sports on whim and to reposition friends. Three and a half years of governments of Pedro Sánchez, three separate presidents at the head of the CSD. First it was Mrs. Rieda, with an accredited sports career...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u54	Mr. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u55	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... Then Mr. Franco Pardo, former delegate in Madrid and, in the meantime, Mrs. Irene Lozano, whose dispersed, varied and multi-organic political trajectory has recently taken her to the Arab House. In short, the stability of the sports council is a perfect entelequia. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u57	Thank you, President. I want to begin by referring to the recently deceased editor and divulgator of the science-fiction Miquel Barceló. We owe it to him that, when this was a genre despised by high literature, some could access other worlds. So, Miquel Barceló, the stars, your destiny. [[Applauds]] These budgets, also in culture, depend on the nationalists and it is noted, it is bad news. Nationalism is the plague of Western culture; nothing has killed more artists, intellectuals, writers and thinkers than nationalism. There is nothing more uncultural, nothing more primary, than worshiping a stone than the Quixote. By the way, Mr.Iceta, be clear about the Quixote, whether that's what you say or the letter the PSC has made voting for Don Quixote to be out of Barcelona. Don Quixote is in Barcelona, says the Quixote and says it masterpieces, top works like this painting by Augusto Ferrer Dalmau, where we can see Don Quixote and Sancho walking along the beach of Barcelona, with its landscape behind. [[shows a picture of the picture]] Nationalism is to yearn for the myth in front of history, impose the small nation on the great homeland, burn books to avoid propaganda. The relationship of nationalism with culture is well known in Europe, has narrated it in its vital peripecia Stephan Zweig; about nationalism warned Hannah Arendt. Lean her, because she also wrote a lot about believing that she can be controlled and used. Fritz Lang, Billy Wilder, Ernst Lubitsch know of nationalism; Cernuda, Maria Zambrano,Chaves Nogales know of nationalism. Living intellectuals like Felix de Azúa, Albert Boadella or Fernando Savater know a lot about the relationship of culture with nationalism; Aramburu knows about nationalism. No political maneuver to erase any episode can cast a shadow to what Aramburu tells in his homeland. Despite all this they have left the culture in the hands of the nationalists; by the partners who have chosen they will not be able to prosper the amendments of Citizens to promote the Spanish culture abroad and the defense of the Hispanic legacy. There's a campaign to criminalize the Hispanic legacy in America. The statues of Cortés, Columbus, Cervantes are being thrown into one of the most obscene exercises of relativism and post-truth that have been known. The history of Spain is not of the left or the right, it is of all and they are undervaluing Hispanicophobia. Doing nothing affects Spain, Spain that will inherit our children, because it affects Spain's reputation in the rest of the world. It affects our external relations, because it affects companies when they seek opportunities abroad, because it affects even the risk premium. But that's all accessory. Above all it is because it affects the truth, and here Citizens have put in an important package of amendments. I know that in addition to relying on the nationalists, the government has a very serious problem because it relies on people, let's say, with limited knowledge of the history of Spain, better known as the Podemites, who speak, for example, of genocide in America because they do not know that in the wars of independence faced by the Creoles with the Spanish Crown the indigenous people went with the Spanish Crown, because they knew that they were the ones who had laws to protect them and knew what was going to happen to them - and it happened - if the Creoles were defeated. The Puemites speak of espolio in America because they do not know that Spain founded 27 universities while Portugal, France and Holland did not found any. It is obvious that Spain founded 210 hospitals in New Spain alone, which is what was called Mexico, New Spain. The Spaniards, as soon as they invented the first vaccine, took it to America; it was against smallpox. We can do what you've exported to America are dictator advisors. Look at that comparison! You may accuse Spain of exterminating ethnic groups and see no difference between what happened in South America and what, for example, has gone to Apaches, Sioux and Comanches in the north. You can talk about the racism of the conquerors while wearing a Che T-shirt. They say that Cortés was a racist, but Cortés fell in love with a Nahua woman, with whom he had a son, Martin, being one of the first mixed children to be born in America. Instead the Che, that of his shirts, said, I open quotes: 'the magnificent specimens of the African race who have maintained their racial purity thanks to the little attachment they have to the bathroom, have seen their royals invaded by a new specimen of slave, the Portuguese'. I close quotes. Gentlemen of Podemos, check your readings and your T-shirts, although I sometimes suspect your readings are your T-shirts. All that I am telling you here was what the Citizens' amendments in the field of foreign cultural policy wanted to be told all over the world, and it is a work that the Government of Spain is not going to do. Fortunately, civil society will defend itself from its inaction and aggression against our legacy by Podemos. Documentaries such as Spain, the First Globalization; editorials such as Desperta Ferro; the Comics of Cascaborra; the Boys of Gestas of Spain; Carlos Canales; Miguel del Rey; Pedro Insua; Elvira Roca; Javier Santamarta; HistoCast; Memorias de un Tambor; the Escóbula de la Brújula, all of them, with thousands of Spaniards behind them, will defend their legacy in the face of their abandonment of functions. The development of the Artist's Statute - changing the subject - is something in which these General State Budgets could be much more ambitious. We are also concerned about the protection of intellectual property. I know they also have problems with Podemos around here, but there is nothing more important for a creator than his work. He celebrated his statements against the dismantling of museums - I also like to say it when he does a good thing - and I congratulate him on the acquisition of the painting of The Crucifixion of The Greek. These actions are very important. I ask you, please, to comply with what you have said here and not to subject the Spanish museum policy to the nationalist or provincial whim and put it at the service of knowledge and culture. We have asked that the Iberdrola women's football league be declared an event of exceptional public interest to attract sponsorships, but it does not seem that they will support it. We have also proposed measures to ensure that high-performance centres are susceptible to sponsorship; by the way, they have left the Red Cross out of sponsorship and we are also trying to remedy this problem. On high-performance centers, we have also amended them to provide them with budget for the new Olympic disciplines; look what has happened with the climb, that our Olympic champion in climb had to do a real crossroad to be able to train. They have made the sport depend on those who paint the Spanish selection and the hymns, and have placed culture in the hands of those who want to destroy it and turn it into propaganda. Gentlemen of Esquerra and Bildu, I give you a bad news: the Spaniards of left, right, center, political, mobilize to defend their culture and admire their athletes. They have said enough, and this is bad news for nationalists and for the Puemites, but it is great news for the world, because Spanish culture and sport have made the world much better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u59	Thank you, Madam President. What a barbarity! What barbarities to hear in this rostrum! To rise here to make an apologia of Spanish supremacism and a laudation of imperialism and colonialism. [[Several Members: Hala!-Rumores]] [[Rumors]] It is the image, precisely, of an outdated empire that will lose, badly in spite of some and sooner rather than later, the last oppressed nations that remain. Nations like Galicia that will be, as I say, bad that it will be against some, sooner rather than later, a free and sovereign republic. [[rumors]] [[Protests and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u60	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u61	Minister, I do not know if some will consider a great advance that from Madrid cultural capital of the world we move to Madrid and Barcelona, but - probably some do not yet know - there is life beyond Madrid and Barcelona and also culture beyond Madrid and Barcelona. His ministry must begin to respect a fact, which is that the Spanish State is a plurinational State, a State in which we live with different nations with different languages and cultures. You'll see... [[continue your intervention in Galician]] Therefore, we have the same right for the ministry to promote our languages as well. For this reason, the Galego Nationalist Block has tabled a number of amendments, for example, to create a specific audiovisual support fund in languages other than Spanish, with EUR 50 million, or that in the fund that exists in Spanish Radiotelevision 30% is reserved for the promotion of audiovisual productions in Galicia, Catalan, Basque, i.e. in the official languages other than Spanish. Therefore, we present a proposal for a plan of dynamism of the culture in Galicia with 20 million or different amendments to promote projects of rehabilitation of the built heritage, from the Pazo de Martelo in Rianxo, the Castelo de Narahío in San Sadurniño, San Felipe in Ferrol, the Museo das Laudas Gremiales in Noia, the Casa Baroque in Poio; to support the Museum of Pontevedra where, by the way, there is most of the artistic work of Castelao - which probably the person who climbed before this rostrum completely does not know - to support the Marco de Vigo or to create definitively the public library of the State in Vigo. At the same time, we are presenting proposals to put Radio Catro back into operation in Galician language or for Spanish Radio and Television in Galicia to have its own production or, finally, so that we can see Portuguese radios and televisions in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u62	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u63	Good morning, President. First of all, Minister, let me begin by congratulating you on the increase in your ministry in these General State Budgets, a claim that was historic and that does justice - or at least tries to do so - trying to repair all those years of derelict investment in the cultural sector. We welcome the consolidation of the amendments tabled by the Democratic Party last year in the General Budgets of the State for the Fundació Gala-Salvador Dalí and for the Fundació Miró, two cultural referents of Catalonia who understand and defend a diversity and diversification of the cultural sector by not concentrating only on the city of Barcelona, which we find interesting and to which I will refer later. We also welcome the incorporation of new amendments in the cultural sector, such as the support to the Peralada Festival, the support to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum of Sant Feliu de Guixols or the contribution to the Llagosterenc Casino worth 100,000 euros. But these budgets, Minister, do not correct the territorial imbalance. Mr Díaz - who knows what respect, with whom I share many things and disagree in many others - said that there is a clear nationalist influence on this cultural budget. I'll tell him he's absolutely right about the world, but Spanish nationalism. Because, Mr Díaz, you will tell me how you can see a clear nationalist influence when the Community of Madrid receives 184 million and the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, 36. The same nationalist influence sees it in that the great museums and the great national centers all reside in the same community, which is in the capital, which is this city in which we meet now and which absorbs the resources of all the great museums and centers that should be spread across the territory, if what you defend is a diversification of cultural investment throughout the territory of the State. Because the minister was talking about the cultural capital between Barcelona and Madrid. To me the prefix 'co' sounds a little abusive to me because, you will see minister, while the Macba receives 1 100 000 euros in these budgets, the Queen Sofia receives 42. And you will tell me that the national centers or museums are of all Spaniards. I would tell you that we pay all Spanish centers, but we don't enjoy all Spanish alike. It is clear that a citizen of Madrid can enjoy Queen Sofia much more than a citizen of Barcelona, than a citizen of Seville, than a citizen of Girona or a citizen of Zaragoza. With this, as long as the national museums cannot tour the whole territory or diversify them or talk about co-capitality when we only inject 20 million euros into the city of Barcelona and with that we already put on the medal, it seems to me that it is too brave. I would like to comment on a couple of more important issues that affect the budgets and also your ministry. On the law of sponsorship, I believe that there is a chance of moving forward in this budget on issues that we do not do. I would like to remind you, Minister, that my parliamentary group has put forward an initiative to update the Sponsorship Act, which is blocked for reasons that we do not know about by the Bureau of this House. We understand what the reasons are, that your ministry is working on an alternative plan that will be presented to us shortly, but we ask you to stop interfering and let this House work in the best conditions because I believe that the cultural sector deserves an up-to-date sponsorship law immediately, we cannot expect much longer. Finally, I wanted to denounce - since it is also the responsibility of your ministry even if it is in a tangential way - that the linguistic question in Catalonia is worse than ever, minister, and you, who defends and comes from Catalonia, should understand with a greater sensitivity this whole question; let us hope that it is so. If so, they will find us to support them and to discuss any linguistic issues that affect us. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cruz-Guzmán García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. If there is a word of our rich Spanish banned in the world of culture is 'censorship'. [[Shows a notebook in which the word 'CENSORED' is written diagonally.]] Censorship like that which we have experienced in this budget procedure, where twenty-seven amendments have been deleted from my group for this cultural section. This government, which is obsessed with remembering a time in Spain that they only use to fuel an outmoded confrontation, has taken over the figure of the censor, which prevented us from understanding the Mogambo script. Meanwhile, they leave in the archives and in the banishment of the new National Archive of Social Movements, devised by Mr.Iceta, the unjust and painful history of our country, under the threat and murders of the terrorist band ETA, by signing with Bildu these budgets. [[Applauds]] Mr Iceta, with your censure they have not silenced the People's Group, they have left Elche's neighbours without a voice, preventing the Mysteri's support, which has stolen my heart this year and which this government has sent into exile. Changes have remained Ibiza, Cadiz and Córdoba, which will not be able to defend their libraries. Nor will we know the positions on the celebration of the eight hundred years of the birth of Alfonso X the Wise, which two days ago began in the Cathedral of Seville and will continue with great activities in Ciudad Real. Nor will we know who would support our proposal to promote the roads of Guadeloupe. More than one hundred and sixty proposals constitute our alternative, loaded with projects with common sense to support a sector that does not finish seeing neither the green outbreaks nor the light at the end of the tunnel. Light with a deorbited price that prevents the spotlights from turning on to continue the function; European funds with drop-downs and noisy numbers of implementation of this 2021 budget. This Government has said no to the measures of the Artist's Statute, not to the national plan to save the tablaos, not to the energy efficiency of cultural infrastructures, not to the direct support to the municipalities to develop a safe culture, not to the rescue plan for the companies of the exhibition sector - wounds of death -, not to the fight against piracy, not to the support of video games, not to the artists of sacred art, nor to the bands of music and, as was to be expected, not to the plan to promote Spanish and Spanish culture that, as the spokesman of Citizens has well explained, go through a critical moment. I also think like you, not supporting the location of the statue of the Quixote in the City of Condal is a catetada, and thus defined this attitude and, therefore, its companions. Barcelona's cultural capital doesn't seem to start with a good foot. Culture, Mr.Iceta, has a wonderful power of social and territorial cohesion, and this ministry is using it just to the contrary. How is it possible that in a budget which increases by 38% in investments, EUR 5 million has been removed from the Community of Andalusia? It has been removed from the map to Granada, the city of Lorca, of the Alhambra, it has been removed from the investment annex while other regions rise exponentially. Unacceptable grievances! Whether you bounce or not, Mr.Iceta, you are no longer the Minister of Territorial Policy but the Minister of Culture and Sport. I'm on my way. Faced with the government's cultural 'good vote', we propose our project: culture in the classrooms. With him we want children and young people to discover, through educational centres, cinema, theatre, opera, zarzuela, jazz, flamenco, dance, circus, an initiative that will be a direct injection into the most damaged cultural sectors, the performing arts and cinemas. This is the way to create the healthy cultural habit for the new generations, so that, when they reach the age of majority, they consume the culture they like best and vote for the party that convinces them most, without the need to buy them with 400 euros. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u67	Mr Iceta, you are no longer in the Parliament of Catalonia, you are in the Congress of Deputies. [[Laughter]] And if you tell a lie, you know all of Spain, and if you say several, you know many Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'll give you some examples. That the General Budgets of the State are a scam, all the Spaniards know, but it's that in sports, it's a sports scam what you've presented. [[Laughter]] I'm going to give you three very quick examples. They talked about the highest budget in sports. Last year they said it was the highest in the century, in the world, in the universe. Lie! Look, Ministry of Finance, budget execution. [[Show a document]] If you look at me, Mr. Iceta, I'll show you. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] With all due respect I've told you, if you look at me... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u69	... I teach you what you have implemented in 2021 from the highest budget of the century of sports: 123 million euros will be executed from the 250 that you have announced. Therefore, do not say that you run or have the highest budget of the sport, because you never do what you announce, it happened last year and will pass in the next budget year. Two, European funds: EUR 75 million for the autonomous communities for sport. At the moment, nothing has happened to them today in the public finances of the autonomous communities. With all my respect and with all my affection I say to you that in sport you need money for sport, but for solar plates of high-performance centers, of sports technology centers, you will forgive me, but equally is not a priority. We, the People's Party, with those 75 million what we would have done - and here are our amendments and I believe they are - would be to lower the VAT on sport, to invest it in basic sport in the municipalities that support citizens' sport, in the autonomous communities that support autonomous sport, in the gyms and fitness centres, which you have left out of European aid, and in our elders to have better health, but not in some solar plates in the centres. [[a Member: That's it]] That is the investment of European funds in sport, Mr Iceta! And the third lie, sports federations. Lie!, they didn't raise a euro the budget, handle it. They cover the same as before the pandemic and are now much worse, because they are now bankrupt, many of them firing coaches and unable to pay regular expenses. Don't lie, get caught, get caught. Equality in sport. Well, I don't even know if I call this a lie anymore. Footballers are worse than they were a year ago and much worse than they were two years ago, look, with their government, with the government of Sanchez. No more lies. Women sportsmen are tired of being used for pictures, they are tired. This group and the sports sector, Mr Iceta, we are very concerned about women's rights and their equality in sports competitions before the preliminary draft trans law that you want to impose on sport. [[Applauds]] We are very concerned about the rights and equality of women in sports competitions with that preliminary draft law that you want to impose. Eye!, that this is very serious and this is not equality, this is sports inequality for women. Ladies and gentlemen, and you said it,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u70	Mr. Merino, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u71	I'll be there in two seconds. You were talking about agreement and consensus in sport. I also believe that there has to be agreement and consensus in sport, but if sport in Spain has to be led by Otegi or Rufián, with us it does not count. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs García Puig has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u73	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you. In an open letter written in the New York Review of Books in 1993, poet Joseph Brodsky recommended to Czech President Václav Havel that he provide all Czech citizens with a book by Proust, Camus, Faulkner or Joyce, because Brodsky said that in art it is where the positive potential of the human being best manifests itself. Beyond that I would add some name to this list, some female name - to put examples that we have close, Marta Sanzo Gabriela Wiener -, what Brodsky said is that cultural policies depend on a fairer, freer society, with more critical capacity and more resources to deal with adverse or uncertain moments that may come. And that is what we are talking about when we talk about the budget allocation of these budgets for culture, how important we are to culture as a society and how we articulate that right that is recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or in the Constitution, which is the right to access to culture. Our country has a major deficit in the articulation of cultural policies aimed at ensuring access to a culture that must be diverse and without a classist, racist or sexist bias. It also has a very significant deficit vis-à-vis women cultural workers. Those who are not of a high standard, those who do not have family income, are mostly concerned with a situation of precariousness that speaks very badly of our country and that makes it difficult for culture to be that right that we speak of, for example, the so-called Constitution that we have. The budgets we are debating here today point to this path, to reversing that deficit of cultural policies that Spain has and to building cultural policies that are effective and fair. Therefore, we make a very positive reading of them. We are - as has already been said - facing expansionary budgets that recognize the importance of culture in our society. We are talking about an increase of 38.4% and we need to be satisfied with it; I would say that we need to be satisfied with all the parliamentary groups. These budgets in culture exceed the 1284 million that the Government of Zapatero dedicated to it, which until now was the largest budget allocation in culture, and it should be remembered that the PP, which has just criticized them, brought the budgets of culture to historical minimums in 2013: 721 million. [[The Lord]] It is very remarkable, however much the Group of the European People's Party is committed to caricaturizing, and it follows the path of cultural policies of other European countries that have proved effective, the design of a cultural bonus. We think that with a good strategy, this cultural bonus will allow the access and dissemination of culture among youth. Libraries and the digitization of library funds have been revealed during the pandemic as a very powerful weapon of access to culture and democratization of culture, and these budgets also include a good budget allocation for the library programme: about 51.8 million. The budget of EUR 10 million is also important to boost more than 400 cultural projects in non-urban areas. I agree that there is a long way to go. Emptied Spain has the same right as the rest of the citizenry to access a diverse culture and we must continue to make progress in this regard. Injection to cinemas and performing arts is also essential for what they have suffered during the pandemic and for the risk they face. We appreciate the effort for the cultural capital of the city of Barcelona, which is a form of decentralization, although - and here I agree with one of the spokesmen who has preceded me - we must not circumscribe cultural activity to Madrid and Barcelona. We have to be ambitious and go beyond that. Finally, I would like to highlight the programme of digital skills for employment which, in addition to working for the digitisation of cultural industries - which, as I have said, is a powerful engine of democratisation of culture - must also focus on narrowing the digital divide by gender and also generational issues. At this moment when we talk so much about mental health in this Congress, in the press and in society in general, at this moment when we are all on guard against really alarming figures, I want to defend the tool of culture to contribute to better mental health. In the light of self-help rhetoric, which unfortunately often deactivates us and engages us in individualism, culture is the best tool we have. Montaigne said that after a while reading one already feels quite better. I invite all parliamentary groups to work for cultural policies that make us better as a society; of course, with ideology, because culture is not apolitical and we all have an ideology regarding cultural policies. Let's do it with ideology, but, please, let's not do it with partyism. And, finally, it will allow me to say here the minister - I have already made this comment to him before, but I think it is mandatory that he do it now - that, if we talk about culture, if we talk about rights, I cannot stop saying that barbarity is not sculpture. These budgets unfortunately continue to collect items for the Tauromaquia. Here we must be brave and put an end to this nonsense that condemns all international institutions. [[Applauds]] But there is also a need to listen to Spanish society. Spanish society is wise and Spanish society does not want bulls. In a survey published last year, 46.7% of Spaniards were in favour of banning bullfighting and only 18% were betting on maintaining it. The Spanish population doesn't want bulls. I repeat, we do not want bulls and barbarism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u74	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u75	...it's never culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u76	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u77	With your permission, Mr. President. Good morning. As an artist, I want to sympathize with the Cuban people. It is very beautiful that after sixty years they continue to bloom white flowers of freedom. [[Applauds]] If you don't want to call it dictatorship, call it tyranny. Fatherhood and life! [[A Member of Parliament: Bravo!-Applause]] The General Budgets of the State should be rejected by this Congress if a sense of responsibility remains in the PSOE and in the groups that support it. When it began, the economic vice president, Nadia Calviño, hoped for growth by 2022 of 8%. Gradually it has gone down and we find that the European Union has just put it at 5.4%. We came from a historical sinking during 2019 of more than 11% of GDP, with which not even completing the legislature - God forbid - we will have recovered the lost GDP. This decrease is not a mere statistical curiosity, those 2.5 percentage points less GDP are, to begin with, a decline in revenues of 10 billion that will have to square in some way and will undoubtedly also entail more expenditure on unemployment. If the rate of growth is not further reduced, we are very much afraid that will be the case. So that the debt does not climb to even more scandalous levels, it is clear that they will do the same that has already been done in the year 2021: not to implement the budget. In these we are in this debate, with a document describing a situation that they know is not going to happen and to which the Government is going to adapt, making this budget a wet one. Therefore, we come here today to try a strange mix of science fiction series B and black novel, but not a serious general budget for 2022. In this context, what we can point out is the number of electoral promises you announced in 2019 that you did not intend to fulfil. What you are going to accomplish and which was not in your election program is the young cultural bonus, a palm show of the extent to which you are dedicated to improvising an electoral poll. All studies point to the exponential growth of VOX among young people, especially among those who vote for the first time. They have put their hands to the work to reverse it: with one hand they take out money that parents do not have through the taxes of light, fuels, etc., and with the other, gracefully, with that same money they attract their children. In addition, it must be used in goods acceptable to you, not in those supposedly protected by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, such as bulls. How far away from the true culture of this people! [[Applauds]] This double condition of extortion to a part of the population with the highest taxes that had never been paid and the illegitimate use of public funds to buy votes is the hallmark of this Government. This year's Culture and Sport budget is 1589 million euros, compared to 1234 last year. If we don't take into account that $210 million youth cultural rationing chart, we see how much this is about budgets similar to the previous ones that, as we pointed out, were already science fiction and are not being implemented. Possibly, the only joy that these budgets could give us was the investment aimed at the great national museums, which for a long time require a series of works to house with the required dignity the treasure of our country, its artistic and documentary historical heritage. But, as joy lasts little in the house of the ruler by a socialcommunist, it hangs like a sword of Damocles on the integrity of the collections of our national museums the cultural federalism of Mr.Iceta. I know what you have said on the subject, but if you want to reassure us, look for other partners and, above all, another president who is more fond of the truth. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] The part relating to libraries and archives is 84 million euros, which is an amount 6 million more than the previous one, but which is possibly one of the items that will suffer a greater gap, because, if the works in the Public Library of Córdoba have multiplied their initial budget and were made at a less volatile time in terms of the price of materials or supplies, I do not want to imagine what can happen with the works of the State Public Library of Malaga. The failure to implement the objectives of digitizing 600,000 pages, remaining at 250,000 and 420,000 in previous years in libraries, is serious, because it responds to a mere inability to manage. Archaeology and protection of the historical-artistic heritage goes to 158 million euros, with an increase of 2.6% that is not enough neither to compensate for inflation, but the serious thing, as happens on so many occasions, is that nothing is executed. In fact, the 337c programme, protection of historical heritage, stood at 33% compared to 55.34 % in 2019. Do you really think it is normal that in a country with a historical-artistic heritage as rich as that of Spain, the third in the world in goods declared World Heritage, the ministry only performs fifteen performances in 2021 and does not budget anything for intangible heritage in 2022? The red list of risk of disappearance of Hispania Nostra - association benefited with 45,000 euros by the ministry - has already reached the thousand monuments and have entered the black list five monuments that have been totally destroyed during the years of government of Sánchez. I understand that, as the PSOE is used to leaving the whole of Spain devastated, these things seem minute to them, but they should be concerned. Most of these monuments are in what you call emptied Spain, which in this case is absolutely unassisted. There are only 50 million euros for goods with the highest valuation, of which 10 million are for remodeling the Tabacalera. We have 17,200 unassisted goods left. Zamora another year runs out of its 1 % cultural and loses 2 million euros, reaching 14 million. I don't know how long they'll be able to keep calling us the Good Surrounded, with no stone bridge and no walls. To preserve and promote the enrichment of the historical, cultural and artistic heritage of the peoples of Spain and of the goods that make up it is a duty of the public authorities, Mr.Iceta, and we continue without a law of patronage that helps...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u78	Mr. Requejo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u79	...to supply this lazy state and without an artist's statute that will help us survive. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Requejo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Lamuà Español.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u81	Thank you, President. Mr Díaz, gentlemen of Citizens, I invite you to come and make the Cervantine route to Barcelona. Cervantes and El Quixote in Barcelona have a street, a park, a public school, a library, several busts, squares, commemorative monoliths, medallions in buildings, a literary route with the Cervantes House in Barcelona and even the largest preserved Cervantes collection deposited in the Library of Catalonia. Mr. Díaz, we're going to need more than a day to see everything. [[Applauds]] How many busts are needed to prove that Barcelona wants Cervantes? Is nine enough for us? Do we have to get to eleven? Do you have an exact number on your head? What the PSC will never do, neither in Barcelona nor here nor anywhere, is propaganda to confront the whole of Spain culturally. [[Applauds]] I listen to some of you, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot help but think that it is not this fantastic budget of Culture that Minister Iceta has brought - for which I congratulate him - that bothers you, that bothers you is culture. I would understand it from VOX, which sees it all as a war of cultural confrontation, but there are other groups of which, despite not matching in many things of culture, one expects something more than shuffles and easy politics. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it gives the impression that you, when you do not rule, prefer that Spain burn and that the Spanish culture sinks rather than assume the role of opposition that with loyalty - no longer to a government, although it would also be desirable, but to culture and Spain - tries to work to improve the common good. This year, as the minister said, the budget increases by about 40%, the largest investment in culture and sport in Spain's history. This government does so because it believes in culture, culture as an opportunity and as a clear bet for the future of Spain. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is not a pedigree or a bottomless well, as sometimes conservative lordships seem to insinuate. Every euro invested in culture is returned tripled to the society that it bets on. As Minister Iceta said, culture does not ask, culture offers. As the reality is that it is a good budget, you strike with what you can, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. This year with the cultural bonus, with Casado at the head, rediculing some of the best cultural sectors that exist today in Spain, such as video games and comics. Although, of course, if Casado did not see all the eagles at the Mass he entered, as to explain what video games and comics mean in the culture of Spain. [[Applauds]] What are we looking for, ladies and gentlemen, new young audiences who come to ensure the future and future of our cultural industries, museums, theatres, operas, bookstores and libraries? Why should we all try to perpetuate this bonus for the future and be a new right for our young people and for our culture? No, you are here for the rattlesnakes, for cynicism, like the one Mr. Garcés used the other day and today doña Soledad CruzGuzmán speaking of the initiative of the cultural bonus. But ignore, ladies and gentlemen, for culture, for cultural rights, for the future of our industry, it will be us, in spite of you, because the minister has reiterated it in many forums: we are betting on a cultural rebirth of Spain. The Socialists do not intend to fail Spain or its culture. If you want to go on with the mess and the punches, okay, but in culture, please behave.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u82	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u83	Chickens, leave them at mass. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u84	Thank you, Mr. Lamuà. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u85	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, and congratulations on these public accounts, on the state's general budgets for the year 2022 which contain the record figure for the recovery of sport in Spain. Mr Merino, you must see what pains you that for the first time in the history of this country a government has recognized the women's football league as a professional. [[Applauds]] It should be seen what hurts the right that this government will also dignify the sportswomen of this country. You have been confused by a parliamentary session, Mr Merino, you have been confused by the confusion of the one going to Mass on 20 November. Not a single reference to the budget headings for sport, not a single mention, and not a single argument justifying their vote against these budgets. In the face of the lack of arguments, Mr Merino, you give us a speech full of empty words of content and full of lies and disrespect for the Spanish Government. Too much noise, Mr Merino, too much noise to hide that the biggest axe to this country's sport was given by the People's Party government. [[Applauds]] Too much noise not to recognize that these are the most expansive General State Budgets in the history of Spanish sport. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the public accounts that our athletes deserve, accounts which are increased by 25% over the previous year, the total amount of which amounts to EUR 315 million. And for what? To transform and modernize our sport model; to renaissance sport; to improve the reputational value of our country at the international level; to help our athletes face the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024; to promote inclusion, equality and also to dignify the women athletes in this country. It is a budget, ladies and gentlemen, which expresses the firm commitment of this Government to sport in Spain. Look, we are the only country in Europe that has included sport among the ten levers for the recovery of Spain, and we have done so because we understand that investing in sport is investing in public health; it is investing in education, in employment; it is investing in creating friendly spaces for reunion, for coexistence, for respect for diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, investing in sport is investing in democracy and living together in peace. And with these public accounts, ambitious accounts, the most ambitious in history, win the sport, win our athletes and win the Spanish society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory We continue with the debate in section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to defend section 25 of the State General Budgets Act, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Before any other consideration, I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance and her entire team on the great work and effort they have made to bring these General State Budgets to this House, which are good for Spain and are good for the citizenry. [[Applauds]] These are budgets, ladies and gentlemen, which have to lead us to the fair recovery of our country, so that we can combine economic growth with rights and freedoms. And they are also historical budgets, let me use the term: more than EUR 40 billion of investment, the largest figure in history, motivated by European funds that are also integrated into the budget, and more than EUR 240 billion of budgets for social expenditure, more than 55 % for social expenditure. Because this government bets on the public, because it is the safety net that never fails, neither individual people when they have difficulties, nor societies when they are poorly given. Ladies and gentlemen, we govern - and therefore we bring this budget law to this House - for all; we govern for young people, for the elderly, for workers, for the middle classes, for the self-employed and for SMEs. We are also working for unpopulated Spain, with specific items for all the citizens of our country who live in those provinces with less population density. In these budgets there are items for all and for all. This is why these budgets are good for the citizenry as a whole and are based on a realistic and prudent basis. They want to consolidate the economic and social transformation that Spain needs and presents them to a government like ours, which fulfils its obligations, which fulfils its citizens' obligations and which also fulfils the European Commission and the commitments that, as a country, we have made with our European partners. I am going to tell you very briefly the main aspects of section 25 of the budget relating to the ministry that I have the honour to lead, which is increased by just 4%. As you know, the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory is not an investor ministry and our departures are intended to support the Head of State, to support the Presidency of the Government, to coordinate between ministries and to develop sectoral policies in the field of democratic memory and religious freedom, and we also provide funding, as it cannot otherwise be, to the public agencies that are attached to this ministry. The total consolidated budget of the Ministry for 2022 amounts to 188.65 million euros, i.e. 7.8 more than in the previous year. The items dedicated to democratic memory amount to EUR 11.82 million, an increase of around 4%. Sixty per cent of this budget will be devoted to locating, identifying and giving a decent burial to people who have been victims of the Civil War or the dictatorship. It is a humanitarian; humanitarian policy. [[Applauds]] We also target specific items to dignify, resignify and create memory places. There is also an item in our budget and in our economic effort to develop competences in the area of religious freedom. In particular, the party dedicated to the Fundación Pluralismo y Convivencia - which you will know of - whose endowment is maintained at 1.9 million euros and which serves to provide funding to the different religious confessions that live together in our country. There is little news in the Government Presidency's expenditure programme. Those that exist are the result of the 2% increase agreed for all public workers, the need to conduct cybersecurity studies and the reactivation of the international agenda of the President of the Government who, after overcoming the pandemic, will resume with normality with the international and European vocation that the President of the Government has. We also support the Head of State from the Ministry of the Presidency, where the budget, which is not significantly changed, amounts to €7.22 million in the case of the Royal House. As for the programmes that finance the Ministry's common services, the total amount amounts to €37.5 million, an increase of €1.96 million, also motivated by the increase in salaries to public workers and employees, to officials, the hiring of a cafeteria and dining service for the workers of the complex and the investment, always necessary, in computer technology and in adapting computer equipment to reality. Finally, I would like to refer to the three autonomous agencies attached to the ministry and the agency attached to it, which is also the agency of the BOE. A total of €96 million is to be added to the Ministry's consolidated budget of €188.6 million. The BOE budget remains unchanged. The increase of 2 million euros is due to the need to undertake reforms in some of the buildings. The budget of the Centre for Sociological Research amounts to just over EUR 11 million and will enable it to cope with a plan for the modernization and digitisation of the entity - absolutely necessary - and with the staff commitments that have required both this House and the Court of Auditors to the CIS. National Heritage, for its part, also attached to the Ministry of the Presidency, will count next year with 117.98 million euros of budget, an increase of about 3 million euros regarding the current year. Here there are investments for the maintenance of the rich historical and cultural heritage that is attached to National Heritage and also the necessary equipment for the opening of the new museum that we have been calling Royal Collections and whose building, already finished, is next to the Cathedral of Almudena. We are also committed to the rehabilitation of the facade of the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, with a slight increase in its budget of €4.4 million. Ladies and gentlemen, these are essential budgets to tackle the stage of economic recovery ahead. It is a stage that is built on a great success of the country that has been vaccination. A year ago, ladies and gentlemen, there was no one in Spain vaccinated; today there are more than 38 million Spaniards who are vaccinated with the full pattern, and that is exactly the best economic policy we can carry out. We are a global example that is recognised yesterday, for example, by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, a global example. And we are a country success, of which we must all be proud. Vaccination is an act of solidarity with the people we live with: our relatives, our friends, our environment. This solidarity of the Spaniards is also demonstrated when as a country we are a generous country that gives vaccines to those countries with the most difficulties. I would like to comment that we have already donated more than 30 million vaccines to countries that have difficulty accessing them. [[Applauds]] Recovery goes through vaccination and through these budgets. I ask you not to look elsewhere; I ask you to support these public accounts, because that means supporting 850 000 young people who will be able to study with scholarships; it is supporting public science, which will have €13 billion, and it is also supporting our young people to have a cultural bonus to be able to access culture easily and to be trained as free and cultured people. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not just figures, it is a country project and it is a model that we put on the table as a government, which responds not only to the transformative will of the government, but also to the consensus that we as a country are capable of achieving. The consensuses that were obtained in the investiture of the President in this House, with a multitude of political formations that supported his investiture; the consensuses that signify the agreements of the social, trade union and employers' agents, and that also constitute a country where the agreement is a guiding thread of all progress. Also the consensus at the European Commission level on the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, how European countries have been able to agree that digitisation, green transition, social cohesion, equality must be the key axes in Europe's recovery in order to overcome this crisis that has led to the pandemic. And that consensus that is shared by seven out of ten Spaniards, regardless of their ideology, that the public and the State have an obligation to improve the life of the citizenry, that is the consensus that translates into these budgets, which must be a fair recovery for our country. With the no, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is built, there is no model of a different country, there is no responsibility for the growth, recovery and reconstruction that we have to do with the country after we have overcome a pandemic. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support these budgets and I ask you to support them because they are the budgets that our country needs right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u89	Thank you, President. This ministry was the recent one responsible for demolishing the Transition. When they presented here the law of selective memory, we already told them that, either memory contemplates all victims, or we will not support it. All of them. Memory cannot replace history. We told them that it seemed inconceivable that, while we were dealing here with the elimination of the crime of the exaltation of terrorism, you would create the exaltation of Francoism, because you are in a process of creating an alternative history, of post-truth and all the euphemisms you want for something very old: lies. In the new story - and I'm sorry for the oximoron - that you bring here ETA did not exist and Franco died yesterday. And I don't say that. A couple of months ago, right here in this rostrum, a socialist MP proclaimed proud that her daughter did not know what ETA was. How does this socialist MP explain to her daughter that Fernando Múgica and Ernest Lluch are not here? Are they also part of the eraser? [[The Lord]] This ministry has budgeted, as you have outlined here, a rewrite of the history of Spain or, which is the same thing: the government is going to start erasing ETA from memory because it can agree with Otegi quietly and, at the same time, they will fulfill a desire of Republican Left, which is to amend the Transition. Esquerra has little by little achieved many achievements; I recognize the merit of passing from being a phylofascist party of gunmen patrolling Catalonia unlocked shots everywhere, to meeting with Mussolini to take notes on the uniformity to display in the streets, to having a company that signed death sentences with the same fruition as Franco, to seem here a party of the progressive bloc. Moreover, you have so much pride, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that you yourselves believe that you can be socialist at the same time as you negotiate and agree with those who defend a privilege that emanates from the stones and not from the laws, until the laws are like the stones and, in the meantime, throw stones against the laws. All the affairs of the State agree with a party of racist doctrine, now made up, but that comes out as soon as they get a little excited. I have in my possession dozens of writings by authors from Esquerra Republicana, ranging from Junqueras to Heribert Barrera, passing through all theorists of the Catalan State and Nosaltres soles! race, where the Catalan race is a central issue. To hide it means that that's not here. I understand that all of this also wants to erase it. You vote here for the rehabilitation of companies, executioner and victim, but that companies were vilely murdered did not resurrect any of their shot. But what about the dead at the hands of Companies? Bah!, like those of ETA, neither do the children of the socialist deputy know. Totally, do we want to erase ETA? We deleted the ETA. What about the past of Esquerra? We've erased Esquerra's past. And what is the last concord of this government? The Transition. This is the last budgeted task for your ministry: to erase the Transition. The worst PSOE erasing the best PSOE. You've never had a brighter stage, you've never been better directed, you've never had a sense of state. Of course, I say a sense of state, and perhaps some of you give them an excuse, but you will not find - and I challenge you to do - a critique of anti-Franchism, of truth, of amnesty laws. They won't find her. With antifranchism I mean those who played it against Franco. Moreover, the anti-Franquists supported the Amnesty Law much more than the right-wing groups; there are the Diarios de Sesiones, there are the hemerotheques and there is also their shame. Although they are able to erase the Journals of Sessions; the hemerotecas, I no longer know -. That is, those who did play it against Franco blessed the Transition, and now, all of you, who are anti-Güija fighters, the ghost hunters, are going to amend the plane to those who did plant it in front of the dictator? On the other hand, as the Transition is to be carried out, they have to put in a new foundational moment of democracy, and what is it? This, Mr. Bolaños, is going to prove familiar to you because I'm going to quote you. You said in the Senate the other day that democracy did not reach Spain until the socialist victory of 1982. Have you measured the consequences of that statement? Because if we put the focus of reason on that statement, I automatically have another question: did the PSOE not reach the government in 1982 in a democratic way, in a democracy? In what regime did this victory of the Socialist Party take place in 1982? Who catapulted the government? You are able to steal from Felipe González a victory that you won't even smell in such a way as to put the whole past at the service of your present. Are they also going to erase Suresnes? Although we can already understand it done tacitly with its subsidiaries by Podemos. To measure the magnitude of the deletion and to know what is the intention of the law of memory that is being processed here in Congress, next week - Tuesday specifically - they will have to vote the law of victims of terrorism, of citizens; they will have to say if they want to keep paying tribute to the murderers; they will have to explain their position; they will have to show what moves them when you here speak of memory, how far you arrive, what is behind it. We will see if you want to erase ETA and its victims from history, as this proud Member of Parliament said here. We'll see if you want to honor all the victims or just those who don't bother at Otegi's time; we'll see, we'll see on Tuesday. I believe that the Socialist Party is empty, that it is the quintessence of relativism, that it is the embodiment of postmodernity, a hollow and moral government which, to our misfortune, is the government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u91	Mr Bolaños, I am still surprised that you still have some success today with that message that you, on the left, are concerned about social spending, you are concerned about what you call fair recovery, the protection of the disadvantaged. And yet, just one look at the section we are dealing with, on the 25th, the one concerning the Presidency of the Government, shows us that that is not true. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: All right!]] A single look at the citizens who review this section shows the Spanish citizens the enormous amount of money you spend on propaganda by the Government, the President of the Government and propaganda by the left. And not only that, a single look from the citizens at this section 25 also shows that you have increased that spending from Rajoy's governments. It is that you, Mr Bolaños, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have doubled the expenditure in the Presidency, doubled the expenditure in propaganda. And here, Mr Bolaños, you do - as you just said - bet on the public, when it comes to the public paying for their propaganda. Neither social spending nor the fight for equality, you for what you are obsessed with is propaganda; propaganda from the left and the ultra-left that all Spaniards will pay with their tax increase. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] The Spanish are going to have to pay, among other things, that 113% increase in advisors and senior officials of the President of the Government; advisors and senior officials who, obviously, among other things, are going to tell the lie that you have not raised taxes and that you are not going to raise taxes in order to be able to pay all that propaganda apparatus. Or to pay for that government advertising agency that you have turned the CIS into. Ladies and gentlemen of the left and nationalism, how do you call for spending public money to produce surveys that aim to harm the main opposition party and harm its leader? What do they call it? And I'm not just talking about the manipulation of voting intent, which has already become a joke in Spain. I am also referring to those questions that you introduce in the barometers - for example, in the last barometer - with the clear intention of harming the leader of the opposition. What do they call that? But there is another even more serious propaganda, the propaganda of the sectarian memory law. You manipulate, Mr. Bolaños, when you say that you have made that law of sectarian memory for the victims of the Franco dictatorship and the Civil War. If that were the case, they would have accepted our amendments to use expenditure on exhumations, and they have not, they have rejected them. [[Mrs. Spain Queen: Very well!-Applause]] And it is that in the law of sectarian memory what they claim is to tell the lie that there was always a democratic left and nationalism and a non-democratic right. But how dare you use the democratic concept in the law of sectarian memory? If you have not condemned communism, ladies and gentlemen of the left. Here, in this very Chamber, in March of this year, you refused to condemn communist dictatorships and said you refused to equate communist dictatorships with Nazis and fascists. And when you do that, you put Spain out of the advanced democracies of the world, which do condemn all dictatorships, without exception. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: All right!]] Of course, you also place Spain outside the advanced democracies of the world when you have communist ministers who do not condemn dictatorships, ladies and gentlemen. Before yesterday Pablo Echenique refused to call Cuba a dictatorship. His spokesman minister has refused to call Cuba a dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the Left, stop making false news about the mass in Granada, ladies and gentlemen, stop making fake news - is that the ethics of the Left? - and start condemning communist dictatorships. [[protests]] [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: That's]] [[Applauds]] And ladies and gentlemen of the Left and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is regrettable that you have cast yourselves in the arms of the ultra-left, of the Communist Party, to sign those amendments with which you question not only the Amnesty Law, but the entire Transition. Mr Bolaños said a few days ago that he would set up a committee of experts to study the inertias of the dictatorship until 1982. I quote them textually. This is tremendous, not only because you question the Transition - you, the Socialist Party, question the Transition - but because when you talk about dictatorship inertias you are thinking only of the coup and the coup d'état of 1981, but you are not thinking of the murders of ETA. No, no, And do you know how many murders of ETA occurred between 1976 and 1982? 340 Spaniards killed by ETA, among them, by the way, the father of our colleague Jaime Mateu, magistrate Mateu Cánovas, murdered in 1978. And, of course, how are you going to think about the ETA crimes if you have just agreed these budgets with those who were ETA's political arm and with those who today still do not condemn ETA and who have supported their budgets - Otegi has said - in exchange for taking the terrorists out of jail. Ladies and gentlemen, all this, Sánchez's propaganda, manipulation of surveys with public money and a sectarian memory law...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u92	Your Honor, your time is up, you must finish, please,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u93	... is what you want all the Spaniards to pay. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u94	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. You, Minister, are responsible for relations with the Courts and it would be good if I told the rest of the Government that in the most important law of the year, according to you, what less than being present in the Chamber to see what is happening in the seat of national sovereignty, especially on the first day, that no one from the Government attended, although we already know that they are allergic to the General Courts. You said to us, "Don't look elsewhere. Looking somewhere else? No, not man! On the other hand, they look at the socialist barons, who do not want to recognize who they are negotiating with. Look at us somewhere else? No, man, no! Finally, someone from the government is telling the truth here. You said it today when you said: these budgets are not the accounts, it is a country project. And that's where the problem lies, is that those who have supported them have shown that. If they don't give a shit about the budget, they said it from day one. The budget doesn't matter, what they want is the country project. They do not want a country project, they want what they want, and you - you have recognized it - are given it: on the one hand, budgets for prisoners; on the other hand, we will continue to do the country. What country are you going to make? What country project can be made with Esquerra and Euskal Herria Bildu? Is that the Socialist Party's country project? Because they say what they want, they say: we want independence; the two, one on one side and the other on the other. One still did not condemn terrorism and applauded the murders; the others tried to strike a coup d'état. Are you going to do the country project with those? You recognized him here. That is the socialist project: to make a country with two parties that aim to weaken that country and, if they could, cannot, to undo that country. That is what you have for Spain as a project, and you have said it here today. And the accounts give them exactly the same. But can anyone think that Bildu or Esquerra will care or will they do something to strengthen Spain? But how will you strengthen Spain if your political goal, recognized every day, is to weaken Spain! How are you going to do that? However, you want to convince others that we have to join that country project. And, of course, the democratic memory, the Amnesty Act, is now understood. It's just that you said it here, in your opinion, we started in 1982. And, then, the Constitution? Because if we start in 1982, you say that for Podemos Democracy began when they came to the government, because until then there was no democracy in Spain, and you said it was an unrealistic democracy, and you are buying the story, what if we don't now count on what happened in those years? It is clear that we can question the parliamentary monarchy without any problem, because it is the fruit of the Constitution, we can question the territorial organization of the State, because it is the fruit of the Constitution, and we can question everything else, because it is the fruit of the Constitution. And you have no objection to putting that limit in 1982, but you will end up putting it, as We can, in your government, because you think that democracy has begun in this legislature. No, it's because they've bought the story because, among other things, if there hasn't been the Transition, it means that we can justify all the murders that have occurred from ETA since then, because they were fighting a post-Franchism and were legitimized for it, according to you, with that new theory you've made. And we can legitimize what Esquerra says that, if there has been no transition, we can talk about what the territorial organization of the State is. And you, for one more day in the Moncloa, have bought all that, when for many years many people have given their lives to defend what some people before we did in those difficult years, in the Transition, culminating in the Constitution. That's what they're doing, and one day they'll be billed. They have no doubt, they will be billed, because what they are doing is of enormous gravity. And I know you're going to say, you're just talking about ETA, and so on and so forth. Whatever you say, but let someone come out here and be able to counter everything I've said and say it doesn't fit reality. You are the first one to say that here what is being done is a country project, and they modify the Transition... [[The Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Bolaños García, laughs]] Yes, yes, don't look at me like that, Minister. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: How proud, laugh at everyone!]] Yeah, yeah, you said it. You said it. Or what, that the hemeroteca is lying, too? Didn't you say it started in 1982, with a socialist government? Yes, he did, of course he did, if we've all heard it. It's the story, it's what everyone else buys. They're playing the game - it's obvious - because they feel comfortable. And the next is to say: as the Amnesty Law does not change the law, what problem do we have now? The judiciary. And you buy the account that those judges who don't give you reason are also franchisors. Look at the average age of the Spanish judiciary and see what all these people have as a franchisor. You put it in question because you're putting the whole state up. Just for what? Well, to be one more day in the Moncloa. By the way, they have been cut short in the budget for the Presidency of the Government, because with what has risen the kerosene will not reach them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u96	Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceed to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me begin by talking about democratic memory and Cadiz on a day like today, the land where I was born, where I grew up and which I had to leave, like many others and other Gadites, because they sold and dismantled our future by saying they converted us. To speak of memory is to speak of the pride of a people who have been pushing forward the aeronautical industry, shipyards and automotive in a masterful way for decades. To speak of memory also means to remember that between July and September 1995 - I was a teenager, but I remember it as if it were today - the staff of the shipyards of Cadiz fought in the street against the closure of the factory. It was a pulse against the government of Felipe González and, after three months of struggle and negotiations, they managed to get no redundancies. In addition, we were sold there the bike that to be European we had to get rid of the industry and turn all of us into waiters. To speak of memory is to remember that for forty years the industrial sector has been being mistreated by entrepreneurs who charge millions of euros for a boat, but who pay salaries of a thousand euros to those who build it. And to speak of memory is to reject rubber balls, tanks and police repression against workers, because they recall the black and white images of the darkest past in our history, of dictatorship, and not the modern and democratic country we should be. [[Applauds]] There is no Gadite or Gadite who does not have someone close to him in his family who has worked or who works in shipyards, in the metal industry. That is why he anticipated the Minister of the Interior that there are not enough rubber balls, that there is not enough repression to stop Cadiz in defense of a fair agreement for the workers of the shipyards Get the police violence out of our streets because they are not criminals; they are only workers fighting for the bread of their children. [[Applauds]] No more repression, the strike is a right. [[Applauds]] I ask you, please, to be responsible, to sign the agreement and to pay the workers, which is justice. It is inappropriate for a responsible entrepreneur to pay wages that do not allow workers to arrive at the end of the month. I am focusing on the departure of the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory for the year 2022. It has an overall increase of 5% over what was destined for 2021, and that translates into about 15 million more than last year. Perhaps the departure of democratic memory is one of the smallest in terms of economic size, but, on the contrary, it is one of the most important because it comes to do justice with those who lost their lives by defending democracy's coup d'état and those forty black years of dictatorship. The 4% increase in the democratic memory budget is the triumph of all those activists, family members of victims, who twenty years ago went on the street with the black and white photographs of their relatives acclamating the State to take care of the disappeared and contribute to the truth about the most tragic period of our recent history. And here have been some speeches today that I think they have to seriously hurt the victims. They've caused me modesty, and I have to say so. The departure of democratic memory is also a patriotic expense. And why do I say this? Because it builds a concept of homeland with human rights, justice, reparation, making it clear that fascism was, will and will always be on the criminal side of history. It is also a budget line for the future, because investment in memory helps educate new generations in democratic values so that authoritarianism never again wins in our country. A country that collectively writes the truth about an atrocious dictatorship is a country with more future than the one that today allows for 140,000 Spanish and Spanish missing in the gutter. It is a more necessary than ever and in the future, just so that what has happened this week will not happen again. And it is that a political leader of the opposition who, moreover, aspires to be president of our country, attends a mass for the genocidal Franco is something so serious - so serious! - that in any country in our environment it would have been cause for immediate resignation, but, from what we have been able to verify, it is not so in ours. [[applause]] I do not think there is a clearer example and it is a sufficient symptom to confirm that our country needs memory and that it also needs this budget. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u98	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. It is up to me to analyse the costs of section 25 of the budget. Spain is the European country that has suffered the most with the pandemic, the one that has suffered the most economically and the one whose economy is bouncing the weakest. Our economic future is very bleak, with a public debt that reaches 122% of GDP, which means that it will tighten on our necks. As soon as interest rates - which will most likely rise - rise, the sliding knot of risk premiums will narrow over our necks along with the danger of bankruptcy. But, of course, that will burst into the hands of the next government; in the meantime, you will have gone out of your way. In these extreme circumstances, our president still feels free to increase from 679 to 693 the number of advisors, from his personal bodyguard. Their combined salaries rose from 33.5 million to 34.5 million, and the total Presidency budget increased by almost 10%, from 47.4 million to 51.4 million. We have always known that the passage of the Socialist Party into power is synonymous with the multiplication of the public deficit and the public debt, but what we are witnessing now is a genuine orgy of political spending, and to pay that orgy the Spaniards are being thrown into a fiscal hell. Particularly obscene is the increase in the endowment of the Centre for Sociological Research, which is increased by almost 20%, from 9.1 million to 11.1 million. It is true that the CIS was always suspected of servitude towards the party in power, but under Mr.Tezanos the CISen studies have become a kind of demoscopic Potemkin village that can be crossed smilingly by Emperor Sánchez the Great, ascended into the sleigh of his narcissism. Real unpublished sectarianism quotas are being reached. [[Applauds]] You have turned CIS into the laughing stock of opinion institutes and their meme-humistic studies. But of course the most scandalous thing is the 4% increase in the budget dedicated to historical memory, which goes from 11.3 million to 11.8 million, that is, almost 12 million euros dedicated to the totalitarian rewriting of history and to resurrecting in the hearts the confrontation between the two Spains. You are currently debating the possibility of granting Podemos and Esquerra no less than the repeal of the Amnesty Act of 1977, as the spokesmen of the People's Party and Citizens have previously indicated. If they do, in addition to trampling on a basic principle of the rule of law such as the irretroactivity of unfavourable rules, they are destroying one of the fundamental milestones of Spanish reconciliation in the 1970s. By the way, the Amnesty Law, as indicated above, was not required by the right, as they are now trying to make believe, but by the left and the nationalists. For example, Javier Arzallus said in 1977: we need to start a new democratic stage and forget about previous situations. And Marcelino Camacho, Communist MP, in this very rostrum, in October 1977: we want to close one stage, we want to open another, we ask amnesty for all without consideration of the place where no one has been; we, the Communists, who have suffered so much, have buried our dead and our grudges. Well, the communists had suffered a lot, but they had also caused many to suffer a lot, as anyone who walks through the cemetery of Paracuellos or who reads the testimonies of the Czechs knows. [[applause]] But the truth is that Camacho had a noble gesture of magnanimity that day. Camacho, who had known the prisons of Franco, wanted the reunion of the Spaniards, as well as the former Franco ministers who piloted the democratic transition, such as Adolfo Suárez or Torcuato Fernández-Miranda, because democracy in Spain, I don't know if they remember, made it possible ex-ministers of Franco. You, on the other hand, who have not known either the prisons of Franco or the underground - you have only known public salaries and offices of professional politician - are destroying the legacy of concord of that generation. The Amnesty Law was not only demanded by the left, but also benefited the left and the nationalists. According to a study by the State Security Forces, with the Amnesty Act of 1977, no fewer than 1232 members of the ETA, the Grapo, the Reconstituted Communist Party and the FRAP were released from prison. By the way, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, already definitely absent from this House, usually boasts of his father 'frapero'. I'd rather assume that I'm a father businessman. [[Applauds]] Among those who got out of jail with the Amnesty Law were the authors or collaborators of the attack of the Rolando coffee shop, on the street of the Post Office, in 1974, which caused thirteen dead and seventy wounded, including the communists of Carnet Eva Forest, sentimental companion of the playwright Alfonso Sastre, who was recently claimed here by Bildu, and Antonio Durán. By the way, 55% of those released returned to terrorism. In this way they were able to collaborate in the great terrorist offensive of the ETA and the Grapo in the following six years, which were the bloodiest in our democracy, there were more than 1300 attacks between 1978 and 1984, an average of one every two days, and 365 people were killed, an average of one per week. Gentlemen of the left, you have already destroyed the spirit of the Transition. The great reference of historical legitimacy for this left is no longer 1978, but it is 1931, that is, the disastrous Republic that led us to a civil war. Just as the Socialist Party was Bolshevism in the 1930s, so the present Socialist Party is becoming controversial; that is, it is assuming the historical vision of Podemos that the Transition would have consisted only of the continuation of Francoism by other means, we would live in an imperfect democracy because the 1978 Constitution was supposedly negotiated under the threat of a military coup and in order to arrive at a true democracy we would have to replace...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u100	Your Honor, you must finish, your time has passed too long.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u101	...our monarchy, based on the indissolubility of Spain, by a confederal republic of Iberian nations with the right of self-determination. That's not gonna happen because we're here to stop it. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u102	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u103	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a preview. Here, the spokesman for Citizens has spoken of intimate people - at least for me - people who are very close to the Socialist Party. There was talk of Fernando Múgica Herzog, a friend and intimate companion whom I accompanied in his last moments of life on the sidewalk of San Martín Street; he still had a pulse and I accompanied him to the hospital. There was talk of Ernest Lluch, intimate, socialist, shared portos, with whom I spoke five hours before his murder in the garage of his home in Barcelona. I could talk about Enrique Casas, for I was the first one to arrive, before the ambulance even, at his house, to his room where he was already murdered; by the call of his wife, Barbara Dührkop, I came to the moment. I was a few minutes after General Garrido's murder, his wife and his son on the corner of San Sebastian Boulevard, next to the city hall, with a lapa bomb. I expressed my pain above all before Gregorio Ordóñez, whose body lay in the bar La Stepa, in the old part. That's it! Stop using the victims of terrorism, all of them, to attack the left-wing government! Stop using the victims of terrorism to denigrate and attack a budget! Don't be so miserable, leave ETA terrorism alone! ETA's gone! ETA is not here, there are no terrorists here! That's it! Here what's here are franchisors and what's here are right-wing coup-callers! Right-wing thumpers like Brazil or what happened to Trump! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] [[The applause continues]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] By the way, Minister, the increase in the budget is moderate. You have to run a machine room and we ask you to push and improve accountability, transparency, democratic regeneration and, of course, democratic memory, important issues to advance and strengthen democracy. But let me, Minister, invite you to a game in this framework in which everything goes well, where you say barbarities like the budget is very bad, the country is in ruins and there is trembling on the part of the right. I'm going to invite you to a game, but don't worry: Looking for Wally. Let's go find Wally, where's Wally? Will he still be at Mass in memory of the dictator's memory? Will Wally be in Genoa preparing or reading, perhaps, the dethroned prince looking back at Ayuso? Will the Wally Pablo Casado be preparing the head of the police Saturday demonstration? [[applause]] [[Protests]] By the way, take the opportunity to explain to the police how the previous government used twenty members of anti-terrorist services to pursue the family of Bárcenas with public funds from the budget. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You're a coup d'état, just like in Brazil. Thank you very much. And a lot of encouragement, Minister. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros utters words that are not perceived.-Mr Elorza González: Miserable.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros utters words that are not perceived.-Mr Elorza González: Miserable!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for a moment. [[Protests]] Mr. Odon Elorza... [[Protests Continue]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, please. Mr. Odon... I ask both of you, please, to respect the House. Let's see, gentlemen of the People's Group. [[Protests]] Yes, I'll explain... if you'll excuse me, I'll explain for a second in relation to the times, because I've already explained it to your group address but it doesn't seem to have passed it on to you. [[Protests]] On the clock there are no means, either it takes three minutes or it takes four. When the Joint Group or the Plural Group usually intervenes, it happens exactly the same. Mr. Odon Elorza had three and a half minutes and it's been six seconds of his time. There has before been another intervener who has spent twenty seconds of his time. Therefore, I beg your restraint. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr Gutiérrez Salinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for your good report on the subject of this section. I know that this part of the budget hurts a lot, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of VOX and of Citizens, but here it is, reparation and justice. Socialists do and are brave with democratic memory even if you don't like it. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, when you heard your speech, I see that they are still in place at some other time. It seems to you that the more than forty years of democracy have not passed. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I am not going to repeat the words of my colleague Odon Elorza, but you confuse, distort to camouflage your ultra-right speech and, moreover, your seats are empty, those of the Socialist Party are full. [[Applauds]] And, Mr. Adanero, your speech, whatever matter it is, is always the same in this atrium. He's already a little smug, actually. Let's see if he ever tries to talk about the matter we're dealing with at every moment. Although it hurts you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we welcome the fact that the budget headings for memory are increasing by 4.14% compared to the 2021 budget. It is a great effort and a major budget growth, especially because they are items for exhumation. They are intended for activities related to the exhumation of graves, a restorative gesture that we owe both to the memory of those who were buried without humanity and to their families, and also to that part of Spanish society that fought to maintain a democratic system in our country. The Government's commitment to memory is again evident. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is in compliance with the word given, we are faced with public accounts that respond to the demands that the memorialist associations have been demanding for years. It is a clear bet that exhumation of graves is a public policy, and of course it is to be thanked in a year that will be a transition between the Historical Memory Act and the Democratic Memory Act currently being processed in Congress. It is more evident than ever that Spain needs to make a democratic memory effort so that the new generations of Spanish and Spanish can exercise a democratic critique of the darkest period of our history, but above all they commit themselves to these democratic values and the non-repetition of such a disastrous experience. This will be one of the most important civic vaccines to prevent the spread of totalitarian ideas in our country and which claim some parties in this House. We therefore highlight the set of activities for training, teaching and education in values as a better measure to prevent such a period from recurring. We also believe that it is necessary to highlight the budgets for the resignation of the Valley of the Fallen, as well as its transformation into a place of memory and non-exaltation of the dictatorship. We Democrats owe a debt of gratitude to the victims who force us to pass the democratic memory law and these general budgets of the year 2022. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u106	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 26, Ministry of Health We move on to the debate in section 26, Ministry of Health. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House for the defence of section 26 of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022, concerning the Ministry of Health. Let me first make a brief reference to the current situation of the pandemic in Spain, since, according to the latest data, we have seen indicators of average risk levels, with a sustained increase in the cumulative incidence located - yesterday's data - to 139 to fourteen days, without, so far - said cautiously - a significant reflection on the aid pressure. It is a differentiated situation from the countries in our environment, which have very high figures in all indicators, which reflect an evolution of the pandemic and a very low percentage of vaccination compared to what we have in our country. As you know, in Spain we have a very high vaccination rate, around 90%, which we have achieved within the framework of our National Health System and co-governance, and thanks in particular to our healthcare professionals and exemplary citizenship, who soon understood and understood the magnitude of their responsibility and came to the call of vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Director-General of WHO in Europe asked us to document the lessons learned during the COVID-19 pandemic because we are a reference for the rest of the countries within and outside the Union. We are, too, because this Government has firmly committed itself to solidarity with other peoples. We have moved to action with the determined leadership in the international donation of vaccines, because from this pandemic either we all leave or no one leaves. We announced weeks ago that we will donate 50 million doses by the first quarter of 2022 and we can confirm that, today, we have delivered more than 30 million doses to the Covax mechanism. Spain therefore fulfils and so does this Government. We are the fifth country in the world to deliver solidary vaccines, ladies and gentlemen; we have fulfilled and progressed. [[Applauds]] There is also an important milestone, ladies and gentlemen, which will allow me to say this this afternoon, and it is that this commitment of solidarity of the Government of Spain also interferes with the universal vocation of science in improving the lives of all people. This is the case with the assignment of a diagnostic test license to the VOCID-19 developed entirely by the CSIC and which will enable it to reach the countries most in need at the hands of a United Nations initiative, Medicines Patent Pool. These Spanish label serological tests will also be the first diagnostic technology to be included in the C-TAP, an instrument launched by the World Health Organization to facilitate access to VOCID technologies in any country that requests it through non-exclusive and transparent licenses. This is, ladies and gentlemen, commitment and solidarity. I now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the figures in section 26. They are budgets aimed at consolidating the just economic and social recovery advocated by the Spanish Government, and they also seek to guarantee the vaccines we need with two fundamental objectives. The first objective, ladies and gentlemen, is to continue to advance in the fairness, universality and cohesion of the National Health System. It is, therefore, a question of shielding one of the fundamental pillars of the welfare state and, in addition, it is a question of continuing to strengthen its capacities to meet present and future health challenges. As regards the overall figures for the consolidated budget, i.e. once internal transfers have been compensated, the allocation for the financial year 2022, including its autonomous seconded bodies, amounts to EUR 2546 million, which includes both the national budget and that for the implementation of projects financed from European funds. If we focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the State subsector, without including the European funds, the budget for the year 2022 amounts to EUR 1171 million in the consolidated budget. This figure, compared to the budget for 2021, means that the department will receive an increase of 1028 million euros by 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, after commenting on the overall figures, I am now going to comment briefly on the figures in the various areas of the department. In public health, the budget is 1739 million, including European funds that will be allocated to key projects such as the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19 with 1463 million, of which 292 million euros are destined to purchase solidary vaccines. They are also going to go to primary and community care, with a budget close to € 176 million for the year 2022, of which the vast majority -172 million - are going to be distributed to the autonomous communities. The aim is to contribute to the development in the short term of the action plan for strengthening primary care in which we are working within the institutional technical committee and which will be ready by the end of 2021. Also, ladies and gentlemen, an important action under this heading is the Mental Health Action Plan and COVID-19, to deal with the urgency of the important, which has a budget for the year 2022 of 30 million euros, of which 24 will be transferred to the autonomous communities and the rest will be allocated to a telephone of 24 hours seven days a week for the prevention and care of suicidal behaviour. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u108	One second, Minister. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u109	Thank you, President. The plan will have a total funding of EUR 100 million until 2024 and, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 16 million to strengthen preventive capacity and health promotion. In these actions we highlight the Strategy against rare and neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS, with 2.8 million euros, and AIDS prevention and control programmes, as well as other STIs, with 2 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the common portfolio and pharmacy, they are clearly aligned with the principles of equity and strengthening of the National Health System, with a budget that will grow, including European funds, to EUR 520 million. The most relevant projects - and I would like to comment on this - are the Plan for the extension of oral care services, which will have 44 million euros, mainly in primary; the Health Cohesion Fund, which envisages a total of 33,7 million euros to consolidate the cohesion and vertebration of our National Health System, and, of course, a strategic project that has to do with the improvement of diagnostic capacity, the Plan for investment in high-tech equipment, known as Plan Inveat, to which we have already transferred 400 million euros in the year 2021 and in the year 2022 will be budgeted another 396 million in capital transfers - chapter 7, therefore -, summarizing an amount of 796 million euros, which will allow us to acquire 847 high-tech equipment that will undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of diagnostic capacity in early disease states, which will allow for better therapeutic intervention if that is the case. Also, ladies and gentlemen, projects that will contribute to the care of people with cancer in our country, especially boys and girls. It will be the plan for the implementation of proton therapy in the National Health System through the agreement with the Pontegadea Foundation. I want to point out that this is a milestone in our country, because so far there is no proton therapy team in public health. This will mean that in the coming years we will have ten proton therapy teams financed by the aforementioned foundation, worth 280 million euros, which will advance the Government in the General Budgets of the State from 2022 to 2025. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the Directorate-General for Professional Planning, where we highlight the €3.8 million allocation to boost the continuing training of our healthcare professionals and €1 million for the year 2022, which will continue in 2023, to equip them with digital skills, something fundamental as you know. Also, the Digital Health Strategy, which will soon see the light, with a very important endowment, will enable the improvement of our country's health intelligence capacity. [[Applauds]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 3 million is planned for tests of access to specialized health training, which has only grown since Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government after cuts in previous years. In relation to other cuts, we increase places, increase resources and improve the National Health System. I would also like to highlight the recognition of foreign degrees and the updating of training programmes and the criteria for accreditation of teaching units by the national speciality commissions, among others the so-called and so-called needy specialty of family and community medicine. The Government delegation for the National Drug Plan, which envisages EUR 15 million for the year 2022, also highlighted in this appearance, ladies and gentlemen, three of which will be allocated to supra-Community programmes on additions developed by state-level NGOs and just over one million - very important - for research projects to be developed by both public and private entities. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, I would like to make a special mention of the scope of the General Secretariat for Digital Health, Information and Innovation. The Ministry of Health has the firm decision to advance the digitization of the entire National Health System in order to develop the National Digital Health Strategy and to advance preventive care, diagnostic and therapeutic care in the patient, with a budget that will amount to 165 million euros by 2022. In addition, the ministry will increase the capacity to respond to future health crises, with 5 million to enhance the surveillance network in public health, which will be added to the 15 that we have already distributed in the year 2021. Undoubtedly, the ability to improve, to be resilient, to be prepared is a fundamental objective for the Government of Spain. And there, ladies and gentlemen, he highlighted the State Public Health Centre, which will also have a budget of €9.4 million to carry it forward. Let us hope that the preliminary draft law on the establishment of the State Public Health Centre will be available in the next few days. I will move quickly to the autonomous bodies, ladies and gentlemen, and start with the EMPS. I would like to highlight the financing of actions aimed at optimizing the consumption of antibiotics, to which in the year 2022 we will allocate 2.2 million euros compared to the 930,000 of the year 2021. As regards the NTA, the National Transplant Organisation, will have a budget of €7 million for 2022, of which I would like to highlight the 2 million for grants to non-profit institutions in order to encourage the donation and transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is an international reference in transplants, and what this Government wants to do is to further enhance that reference at world level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Ingesa, the budget continues to rise to EUR 331 million; EUR 54 million for investments, 35% more than in 2021; in primary care, EUR 2 million for the El Tarajal health centre in Ceuta, and in hospital care, EUR 26 million for the works of the new University Hospital in Melilla. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you for the work that all your ladies and gentlemen are doing in this House, which is always intense, especially on these dates. I believe that we have presented accounts for the Ministry of Health that are geared towards the economic, social and just recovery that this Government advocates, to equity, to social justice and to universal access. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the momentum is important, the health and public health of Spanish citizens more, and they are budgets that encourage and help to continue to grow in order to improve people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam minister, at first, when I get up, at six or seven, I connect with the canary radio. This morning, Javi Rodríguez, the correspondent for La SER in La Palma, was speaking, and he was telling how La Palma has been incommunicado for almost a week at the airport. And in La Palma there is no chemotherapy or radiation therapy, nor do we have neurosurgery or a catheter. Cancer patients and ICUs, at this time, have to take and go by car or ambulance for two hours to travel part of the island, because they are cut off the roads, and get to catch a boat that lasts three hours, and back again. What does that mean? That a cancer or ICU patient, at the moment, would take him or her the same time to treat himself or herself to the United States as to go to Tenerife to give himself or herself a treatment. This affects not only your health, but also your soul state and that of your family. Yesterday also published El País - I say it because it is not Ana Oramas who says it - how is the state of mental health of the citizens of the island of La Palma. It's not the 8,000 people who have come out with what's on, it's the whole island: children who have been out of school for almost two months, people who have lost everything, who are in shock, and after the shock comes the emotional and psychic fall. Before the volcano, in La Palma there was a one-year time for the psychiatrist; people had to go to Tenerife in private. They have been reinforced with volunteers from the School of Psychologists and the Canary Health Service has strengthened, but it has not done so to care for or follow up on ten or fifteen or twenty thousand people; primary care doctors have reported that they are overflowing and that what is being stuffed with people, rather than having mental health treatment. On the other hand, we will also need certain health infrastructures in La Palma that were not there, because spirometry and a lot of tests have to be strengthened. In that connection, we had tabled two amendments. One to let it be known that in the state budgets there were 10 million euros for mental health for La Palma and an amount of 5 million to strengthen the health infrastructures in La Palma for what is to come. I am deeply sorry that this has not been done. That it has not been done to give certainty to the palm trees in these budgets because I know, why they have told me all - and I am sure that the minister, who is Canary, understands this issue - that putting this would not have been a subject of the Canary Coalition, but a subject of all, because it will be necessary and it will have to be done. The other amendment that we have also tabled, Minister, is on a subject that you and I very much want, which is the Institute of Tropical Medicine, which, together with Carlos III, is the only one that has a special laboratory and which was financed thanks to the management of this Member with Trini Jiménez when she was a minister. Both you and I - when I was in Women for Africa - know the role that the Institute of Tropical Medicine is playing in collaboration with African countries in the environment, with doctors from all over Africa and Latin America. He is also working with the Negrin Hospital on a very important issue, which is the disinfection of COVID's medical supplies. But not only that, but he is doing analyses of certain amoebas for all the hospitals in Spain. They now need to be able to continue with these investigations and treatments EUR 1 million. We know that last year you made a contribution to the Institute of Tropical Medicine. And I would ask you at a time when there are European funds, bearing in mind that the Canary Islands has only three research centres, and knowing that it plays a fundamental role in public health - as in the control of the mosquito that you know has entered the Canary Islands - but above all in cooperation also with the new pests and tropical diseases with Africa, that you reconsider the situation and that you can seek important help even if you vote against this amendment by the Canary Coalition, which was approved unanimously every year historically. [[The lady]] I end up telling him that a friend of mine was telling me that luck when the volcano erupted in La Palma was that this was like Haiti but in the first world. But when you see the state's budgets, there is not a single item nominated for La Palma and what there is is the commitment that is going to be made. People in La Palma need certainty right now. Palma isn't going to be rebuilt in a month or a year, it's going to be four years, but people need certainties. When you vote against the ICO's line of credit, when you vote against mental health aid in La Palma, when you vote against strengthening primary care in La Palma with national funds, when you vote against aid for SMEs, when you vote against aid for those indirectly affected who are just like those directly affected, people in La Palma do not understand it. I have made every effort to reach an agreement that is not from the Canary Coalition, but from all political forces. I have separated the amendments that were direct to La Palma, several ministers have told me that they agreed to the amendments and I only ask you to reconsider until tomorrow the appointment of parties to La Palma. I know that it is very difficult - as canary as is the minister and other Members - to vote against, but it is that already in La Palma promises and commitments are not worth it. In La Palma they need certainties now. I am going to keep trying until tomorrow and I ask that also that speech of innovation, development and research that has been so important - and we have seen it - on the island of La Palma we apply it also with one of the world reference centers that has Canary Islands as is the Institute of Tropical Medicine. I hold my hand and I simply hope that you will reconsider your vote on all the political forces so that at least these three parties will come forward. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u113	Thank you, President. I acknowledge my surprise at the section on health in these budgets, which has been completely overtaken. During the pandemic we heard many experts, there was a Reconstruction Commission where we all learned a lot. There were brilliant authorities here in many areas and there were some consensus. The biggest of all I'm going to tell you what it was, that primary care was fundamental and that it was completely under-funded. The Health Commission filled their mouths with literary figures: primary care is the dam of containment, primary care is the first line of battle, primary care is the essential pillar to combat the pandemic. Well, seeing them General State Budgets gives neither for a dam nor for a line nor for a wall, they again entrust everything to the same, to the capacity of sacrifice of the health personnel. You can say this is my opinion, but I invite you to look at for example the interview given by the person who knows more about primary care right now. They are totally horrified by what is being devoted to primary care in the budget. Therefore, the next time the gentlemen of the Government of Spain want to go out and applaud the health workers, do it in privacy, because it might seem like a mockery. At the same table of the Commission for Reconstruction, sixteen months ago, citizens managed to include conclusions on mental health, a national strategy that included a suicide prevention plan. By INE data we know that there are - as we know - eleven people a day who take their lives in Spain; they can no longer, they are not people who want to stop living but what they seek is to stop suffering. We have already managed, with several initiatives by Citizens, to make progress in this area. A recommendation was sent to the media and I encourage the media here to deal with suicide within the recommendations sent from the ministry. We have managed to get it approved here in a motion - and then announced by the Government, and I am grateful to it - to create a three-digit telephone for the attention of anyone who sees suicidal behaviour in their environment or wants to take their lives. The mental health of the Spaniards has been flogged during the pandemic, even more so than our immune systems. Paediatric psychiatric emergencies have multiplied by two, suicide attempts and self-injuries in young people aged 15 to 30 have increased by 250 %. There is much evidence, fatal data that must make the Government aware of what is ahead. Emergency and emergency teams do not have specific training to treat suicides, there is no suicide code of action, and this involves all administrations, not just the Government of Spain. The police often do not know exactly how to act when a suicide is found and is based on previous experience. They know perfectly well what to do in a traffic accident, but not in a case that kills more people today than traffic accidents. But it is that in health and mental health-related careers suicide is a question of exaggeration, in a witness way. This subject should also be included in university curricula. We are not doing everything we need and for this we have put a good burden on the citizens' amendments for which I ask their support. Pedro Sánchez announced 100 million, then it was 30, then it's 100 in three years for health. Let's not. In short, I ask you to put the batteries on this matter. By the way, 100 million is a very symbolic amount in these budgets because 100 million is what we are asking for for the sick of ALS and they have not found 100 million to dedicate to the sick of ALS but today we have known that they have found 100 million of Europe's money to water the unions. [[Applauds]] When they want, they find the money perfectly. They have to explain to us what is the qualification of matters they do in the Government. Returning to mental health, not only the Government but all of us must work on the assumption that this problem exists, that it should not embarrass anyone, it must be shown that hiding it only magnifies the problem; taboo, shame and lack of information aggravate the mental illness. That is why I am announcing that this Thursday we will take this item to the Health Committee to put it to the vote, to get rid of the taboo and to make people aware that this is a real problem and that it affects everyone. The most progressive self-styled government in history has vetoed a rare disease strategy. We also wanted those affected by thalidomide to be taken into account. It is very impressive what the State - not this Government, the State - has done to these people. Gentlemen of Podemos, tap your ears now that I'm going to talk about things that offend you. We have proposed to them the creation of a high-level forum for pharmaceutical dialogue. There are many bureaucratic obstacles that make us less competitive for this industry that so many profits generate where it settles. Now that you do not listen to Mr de Podemos, I can tell you, Minister, that you know perfectly well what the benefits are that Spain is an interesting place for the pharmaceutical industry, that it generates high quality employment and that, in addition to hope, clinical trials also have a positive impact on public coffers because they involve savings. This is not the vampire capital that comes here to bleed the poor people. We can ask in the next Saturnals the comrades Magi of the East for a communist track, a theme park for these people to unfurl or storm winter palaces and these things, while the others manage to generate employment, health and wealth making Spain an attractive place for the pharmaceutical industry. The last point I want to address, and perhaps one of the most important, is the need to strengthen information on the benefits of vaccination. For this we also have another amendment - this is still alive - to deal with anti-science and anti-vaccines, which are confused with traditional conspiracies that are very old. This is the way: the information on the vaccine, combined with a unique response throughout the territory, and speed up the new vaccination doses in line with what the European and Spanish drug agencies say. It is these three actions - information, vaccination and a unique response - that we must apply to the incidence we are experiencing from the pandemic, not restrictions. The restrictions, Minister, must be the last ratio in terms of health. Let's try this formula I'm proposing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u115	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister and ladies and gentlemen. I thank the Government for the receptiveness it has shown with some of the amendments tabled by the Democratic Party in the area of health. I would like to highlight the sensitivity with the health model of Catalonia and other autonomous communities, where an important volume of public health and social services is presented by private non-profit-making entities, such as associations, foundations or employers, in different management modalities. This sensitivity will make it possible to correct a comparative aggravation, and these entities, and thus different territories, will be able to access the Next Generation funds to finance health or social facilities that provide public services to the population. We are doubly satisfied with the Government's consideration of the amendment on the development of an institutional campaign aimed at the normalization of fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and multiple chemical sensitivity, very real diseases that fully affect the quality of life of those who suffer from them, which may become highly invalid, chronic and incurable diseases today, which constitute a public health problem and mainly affect women, resulting in a situation of double discrimination: discrimination because they are women and discrimination because they suffer from known but very poorly explained diseases. We welcome the contributions to the various plans, such as the National Plan on Drugs, Mental Health, Preventive Health Capacity or Oral Health, but we are also constructively critical, because we think that many of these contributions are not enough. We regret that the Government has vetoed the amendment we are putting forward concerning the reduction of VAT to veterinary services from 21 % to 10 %, a health-related activity which has an impact on public health. And we also regret the Government's refusal to address other amendments that refer to historical claims, such as the payment and forgiveness of debts with Social Security of health institutions owned by public administrations or non-profit institutions, and the completion of transfers of property corresponding to hospitals and other health and social services establishments owned by Social Security, but managed by the autonomous communities. Madam Minister, we will continue to uphold the principle of subsidiarity, the transfer of pending resources and the transfer of powers to the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are times in life that are unique and in politics, in the future of nations, there are also times that are unique. This year it was, these budgets were, the year in which the health system was subjected to unknown tension, the year in which professionals received applause from all over the nation and hoped that this would be translated by the Government into professional and work improvements, the year in which many waiting lists were accumulated, the year in which huge amounts of money were announced, and huge funds were announced, which, although they had been indebted to us for two generations, could have served as a lever for the pending reforms of health, necessary reforms, delayed reforms of our health system, the year in which the Government, after agreeing in this House on consensual measures for health in the Commission for Reconstruction, could fulfil them as it should. This year, ladies and gentlemen, European funds do not stop in health care. Health budgets are not the subject of government attention, prioritization or consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, a 1.5% of the funds is a genuine insult to health, an insult to patients, to professionals and, ultimately, to all Spanish citizens. They hypertrophy the sketch of the march of the economy, of the growth of the economy, hypertrophy the revenues, but they reduce the chapter of expenses necessary no longer for the solutions of the health, but also to alleviate the deficiencies evidenced by the pandemic of the COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no new funding model for the National Health System, there will be no new development of primary care, there will be no transformative impulse for mental health and there will be no improvement in professional management in human resources and in the management and planning of the staffing of health professionals. There will be no aid for thalidomide, no aid for rare diseases, no aid for La Palma. And you still wonder why the disaffection of health towards the government? These budgets, Minister, are the finding of the failure of socialist health policies, as frivolous as having changed on four occasions from Minister of Health in three and a half years - each one worse - to the situation of paralysis and current incapacity. It is no wonder, Minister, that the Spanish see their partners with amazement and ask themselves: How is it possible that in Spain they are ruling Bildu and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya? Where is, Your Honor, the Spanish socialism that we have known? Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party has tried once again to correct this misconception with amendments to make those reforms necessary, to provide the Cohesion Fund for the One Health approach, for cancer screening, for palliative care, for primary care, for mental health, for the Public Health Agency, for all the urgent reforms that the National Health System needs today. These budgets are a train that goes back and forth in health care, an act as irresponsible as having subtracted the 1088 million that last year budgeted for primary care. Primary care was left without its reform; primary care was again left without funds in this new budget. Nothing to prevent future pandemics, not even the essential pandemic law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, their lack of diligence and responsibility continue to leave the autonomous communities naked in the face of their attempts to take measures to combat the disease. And at a time when the incidence continues to rise and the contagion has tripled in a few weeks, the higher courts of justice continue to take action for their inaction, immobilization, insolvency and inoperability. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new. Spain is not only the only country that will not have passed a pandemic law, but will be the only country that will have learned nothing. They have not allowed indispensable records of the Inter-Territorial Council of the National Health System, the Public Health Commission or the pandemic commission. They have failed to account for contracts, with malicious obscurantism, and have failed to learn from mistakes, irresponsibly preventing an evaluation commission, as has happened in all countries. Neither a committee of inquiry, nor a parliamentary or expert committee, nor the Congress-Senate Joint Committee, to which the President of the Government committed himself, nor the committee monitoring the agreements of the Commission for Reconstruction, and in the only committee that has tolerated, ladies and gentlemen - which they could not avoid - has prevented anyone who can tell the truth from appearing, rejecting one hundred per cent of the lists submitted to appear by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, this stage will pass into history as the worst known epidemic, with more than 120,000 Spaniards dead, in which the government did not know how to act, nor did it learn to defend the Spaniards in the future, nor did it solve endemic problems, nor did it, Minister, seek the necessary budgets. What a disgrace, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u119	Good afternoon. I have always thought that General State Budgets can be good, can be bad or tolerable, but, listening to Citizens, VOX, PP or Navarra right, it seems that budgets can also be traitors to Spain or clearly anti-Spanish. Every time they speak of my group - that is, of me - and of the groups that support the Government of Spain, they describe us exactly as traitors, anti-Spanish, ignorant, liars, separatists, criminals, nationalists; Spanish nationalists, because Spanish nationalism, Mr Díaz, of Citizens - which you defend so much and which you consider, by the way, superior to the other nationalisms, especially to Galician, I think, is the one that says that there are twenty-six million people left in Spain. Frankly, it has been quite a surprise to me to see the democratic talent of our right; that right which considers that all the representatives of this House who are not them, that we have another concept of what is Spain and even what should be Spain and that, by the way, we represent more citizens than they, we are illegitimate, but, above all, we are traitors. Paul Preston, in his book Franco - because we have even a history career, we have everything - explains very well that one of Franco's tactics to justify the war and atrocities of fascist Francoist troops was to consider republican Spain, which had won the 1936 elections, traitor and anti-Spanish. The purpose was to justify the crimes during the war, during the post-war period and during the forty years of Franco-Fascist dictatorship. Why? Because murdering Republican red traitors was better sold than murdering Republican Spanish and Republican Spaniards who thought otherwise, who were looking for a modern and fairer Spain and who had won an election in 1936, because criminalizing the enemy dehumanizes it and worth everything with it. [[applause]] What the right-wings are shouting here reminds me a little of this situation of the past, and I wonder if they call us traitors and anti-Spanishs perhaps to justify better possible reprisals, possible anti-democratic actions in the present and future of this country. The right is building a future of terror in which, of course, twenty-six million Spaniards do not fit. [[Applauds]] It is clear, Minister, that in order for public health to be a service that offers quality, justice and equity, it must be well financed, and these budgets, EUR 6606 million for the National Health System, account for 20.3 per cent more than the State General Budgets in 2021. But as important as funding, in my opinion, are the objectives. What kind of healing do we want? Do we want an efficient health care that gives quality service to all people? The best use of budgets is to allocate them to the greatest possible efficiency, and our public health system is very efficient, especially when it is managed from the public. All the private management experiences that the People's Party opened with its Law 15/1997 have proved to be inefficient and are a misuse of public money, because they are based on profits at the expense of precarious services and low ratios, which puts all patients at undue risk. Hence, the proposal for a law on ratios of health personnel is called a patient safety law. By the way, what about the patient's safety law? Greater efficiency is achieved by investing budgets in disease prevention and mental health care. Therefore, what we must do is to invest primarily in public health, primary care and mental health; more than fundamentally, perhaps enough. That is what the United States has been proposing, but none of our proposals have actually been taken up. It is said that public health is strengthened, but 5434 million private civil servants' mutual societies are dedicated, even if this is totally inefficient, unjust even for civil servants and generates inequality and inequality, ignoring our proposal, which, by the way, is also the proposal of the founding of the Socialist Party that reincorporating civil servants remain in the National Health System. The civil servants' mutual system is inefficient because it results in risk transfer from private to public health, so that private health serves civil servants when expenditure is low, but when assistance involves high expenditure - prostheses, oncological treatments, endocrine treatments or rheumatological treatments - patients are diverted from the public. We pay twice when there's a risk transfer. These 5434 million in three years would be very efficient added to public health. The mutual societies of civil servants generate inequity in the population, and that the civil servants also know that they are harmed. Nor have we been accepted to increase the budget to finance and enhance the High Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health, so that it can carry out its functions, as set out in article 76 of the Cohesion and Quality Act 2003. For my group primary care is essential. We have proposed a state pact for primary care and put ourselves to work on it. Of course, the figure of 176 million is clearly insufficient. I sincerely believe that the ministry must demonstrate in fact its defense of public health, and we are sure that it will. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u121	With all due respect, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. [[The lady]] On 21 November 2000, the Socialist Prime Minister of Health, Mr Lluch, was assassinated by ETA. You have commemorated it by agreeing these budgets with the heirs of your murderers. I know this bothers Mr. Elorza, and I understand that transfer of remorse to resentment, not to yourself, but to others, but perhaps he needs professional help. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u122	I would ask you, Mr Steegmann, to maintain the manners and decorations attributed to a person who is speaking. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u123	I'm going on. Therefore, it is still said that this draft budget is illegitimate because it is immoral. It is an unrealistic project, because it has European scars funds that have not yet been approved. It is a wrong project in essence, because by budgetary means it decrees the end of the COVID-19 epidemic, when the truth is that it is going to become endemic. It is contradictory, Minister, because while in the 310.B, Service 51 program, the critical situation is said to appear in Spain, however, on page 95 of the yellow book a optimistic vision is transferred that does not sympathize with the real facts, and here we have come to talk about these budgets. Believe me, I'm very concerned about this situation. I am very concerned and sad to say that the situation is dangerous. As anticipated by this parliamentary group, the epidemic is no longer epidemic, it is going to turn into an endemic disease, and soon we will see a return to hospitalizations and deaths. Therefore, it is a foolish project, ladies and gentlemen, since it should contemplate many more actions that would protect us from the old epidemic, which is now in transit to the endemic, as the College Medical Organisation says today. No specific money is allocated for diagnostic tests or sequencing. Listen, if you have that test so good - I know - to donate to foreign countries, why aren't the Spaniards doing this test to differentiate antibodies from vaccination infection? [[Applauds]] Much propaganda, but nothing is specified in the budgets of the aid to our three vaccine researchers. Tell me, why. Although we need monographic infections hospitals, and you know it, there are three protocols. The National Biological Response Plan is not budgeted, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is an infectious surveillance system, and the best health plan is a national strategy against COVID-19, because the impact on other pathologies is enormous. We need to protect the Spaniards. Finance the masks, as we propose, and finance the antigen tests, as we will propose tomorrow. Prove that the Spaniards are worried about them. And, as always, we have called from this parliamentary group for the acceleration of vaccination. Why? Because we know that coronavirus vaccines are losing their effect, and that's what's going on. Dosage of reinforcement is needed from now on, especially for our health care providers. You said it yesterday, but it's not in the budgets. See your foresight. No, it's not in the budget. They do not seem to be very concerned about vaccine budgets, because they are already moving from 2436 million in 2021 to 733 million. The Government provides 439 and, of them, 293 - not 392, as you have said - to other countries. 40 %, I repeat, 40 % is given to foreigners. Is that okay with you? Primary care. U, primary care, how worried we are! 176 million. That is 160 % more money to vaccinate third countries than primary care. That's how they want to protect the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And how will this government improve primary care? Well, digitizing, it's gerund. They say it in the 31.KC program, digital health, virtual reality, 3D printers. But, well. What the Spanish need, ladies and gentlemen, is not virtual reality, it is not telemedicine, it has its application; what the Spanish need is a personalized medicine in which the patients see their doctor and nurse and tell them their illnesses and their concerns. [[Applauds]] And that's right, he says they're going to select - listen - with artificial intelligence and intelligent management technology staff selection. But intelligent management, Minister, from Mr Illa is an oxymoron in the mouth of this government. Smart management, for God's sake! [[Applauds]] Look, and I'm finishing up, the flagship of our sanity is the National Transplant Organization. How much does the budget increase? 0.67%. Our Juan Sebastián Elcano of healing runs out of fuel, and this government is also going to run out of fuel, but the bad thing is not that it runs out of fuel, but that it also believes that the sea is in calm girl, when it is in tidal or strong tidal, and has thrown over the edge the sixth of prudence and the compass of common sense. But worst of all, both the captain of the ship and the crew want to load the ship, and that's only going to stop VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u124	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u125	Thank you very much, President. Mr Echaniz and ladies and gentlemen of the PP, these budgets are an amendment to all the budgets that the PP devoted to health. [[Applauds]] For us socialists, health is one of the priority and indispensable public policies and must respond to the irrevocable criterion of universality and equity, because it is a public service that equals people and it is the one that contributes most to social cohesion, regardless of our socioeconomic situation. Ladies and gentlemen, if this pandemic has shown that something is essential, it is a strong, powerful and muscular public health, and these accounts are our commitment, they are our response. These are accounts written to strengthen the strength of the National Health System; indeed, a National Health System thinned by the cuts of seven years of the People's Party's governments and which the pandemic saw with all its cruelty. They are courageous accounts to deal with the pandemic and also with future challenges. And our pride, ladies and gentlemen, socialist pride is our public health system, because it is an indispensable tool, thanks to which the pandemic in Spain does not reach the levels of the rest of Europe. And despite that, ladies and gentlemen, we know that we cannot lower our guard. The enormous effort that has been made in recent months by health personnel, massively immunized to the citizenry, has been an example of responsibility, commitment and solidarity; without citizenship and health personnel, neither health nor the economy will present the good data they present. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the right, despite its catastrophic predictions our country has reached 70% of the vaccination to the target population this summer, as promised by President Pedro Sánchez, ; a country success, ladies and gentlemen; a country success, despite the ridiculous wishes of Mr Casado, when he said that it would take us four years to achieve it. [[applause]] Well, maybe he was wrong, like with mass. The reality is that Spain is an exemplary leader in vaccination, with almost 90% of the population vaccinated on a full schedule in less than a year, and already starting to receive the third dose. The departure of 1463 million euros - you have to read the papers well -, destined to continue buying vaccines, means again investing in our health and in our economy, because vaccines save lives and are the guarantee of not going back. Look at what is happening in the rest of Europe, especially in countries with low vaccination rates. Spain is an example of vaccination in Europe, said yesterday by the President of the European Commission. Look, the World Health Organization has set us the goal of vaccinating 70% of the world's population by mid-2022, and to achieve this, we have the commitment of President Pedro Sánchez, for a fair and equitable distribution of 50 million doses of vaccines donated by mid-2022, because no one will be safe until we are all. [[Applauds]] Also, the Director General of WHO has just two days ago thanked Spain for its leadership and generosity in the donation of more than 30 million vaccines to Covax. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are good news, because they shield the health welfare state; because they guarantee the right to health protection for all citizens, with equity and social justice in universal access to the health system; because they allocate EUR 6606 million for health policy. It is 11% more in investment in health, not including the item to purchase vaccines. It is a great news that the budget of the Ministry of Health, without accounting for the European funds, has a budget of 1463 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what a great news story is? That we are already beginning to receive funds from the European Union. There are 1333 million euros destined to modernize our health system, which, as the minister said, allow us to continue with the Inveat Plan, in order to prioritize technological renewal; which allow us to continue with the provision of equipment to the hospital of Melilla and the construction of the national dosimetry center; 44 million euros for mental health; 28 million euros for proton therapy, and the consolidation of the health cohesion funds for the assistance to patients of other autonomous communities and their care in the CSURs, 33.7 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a government led by Pedro Sánchez has had to come to recover this mechanism of interterritorial solidarity that the People's Party has ceased to include in the State's general budgets. [[Applauds]] These accounts are very big news for most of this parliamentary arc, except perhaps the usual ones: PP, VOX and Citizens. It is EUR 176 million to strengthen the primary, together with European funds for digitisation, to gain accessibility and to gain continuity of care. This budget materializes the importance that the Government of Pedro Sánchez attaches to mental health. I explain to you, Mr Citizen's Spokesman: it is 100 million euros for the Mental Health Plan and COVID for the next three years and 30 million euros for these accounts. The truth is that it is paradoxical that those who never pushed matches for these areas raise their voices. For example, the suicide phone comes from government agreements and was also announced by Minister Luisa Carcedo in 2019, Mental Health Day. [[applause]] I'll finish it, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists are on the side of the public, of equity, of redistribution and of equality; we are on the side of the recovery of universal health coverage that the People's Party broke, we are on the side of expanding rights and shielding our public health, we are on the side of expanding health coverage to those who did not have it, and we are on the side of eliminating the harmful co-payments that the People's Party implemented for medicines; it has been the most vulnerable people who have suffered especially that harmful co-payment. [[Applauds]] We are on the side of equity, cohesion to further improve people's lives, as Minister Darias said. Whose side are you, right-wing gentlemen? Which side are you on? At least I ask you seriously, I ask you to measure and I ask you for a sense of state; I ask you to support the budgets. You have our hand stretched out to work for Spain and for the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 27, Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation We continue with the debate in section 27, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u127	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I stand before this House today to defend section 27 of the State General Budgets Bill for 2022. But before going into the details of this section, I would like to take a moment on the eve of the final vote in Congress to share with you the importance of these budgets to consolidate economic recovery and social recovery. The values that support the General Budgets of the State for 2022 are those that have been guiding our Government's economic policy since June 2018: fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms looking to the future. We are faced with budgets that will allow us to reach the cruising speed in the deployment of the recovery plan, with the largest amount of investment in the history -40 billion euros - financed above all with transfers from the European Union, in the fields of science, R & D, sustainable mobility, energy efficiency, education, vocational training, green transition, digital transformation and strengthening the welfare state. They are also budgets that are firmly committed to fiscal responsibility, and I would like to point out today that the European Commission has made public its assessment of Spain's budgetary plan. The European Commission has pointed out that Spain will succeed in reducing its deficit by 2021 and will continue with the positive path in the coming years; it notes that the deficit reduction is aligned with its forecasts, and foresees a strong and sustained recovery of the economy, with an average growth for Spain of 5% in these three years. This confirms, ladies and gentlemen, that thanks to the prudence with which we have acted and the effective measures taken to respond to the pandemic, to protect the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families, we are initiating a strong and sustained recovery that will allow us to gradually absorb the extraordinary fiscal effort made, especially in 2020, and to have a very different exit from the previous financial crisis. These budgets will help to modernise Spain's productive fabric; to promote business growth, productivity, competitiveness; to generate more stable skilled jobs, with better wages, in short, to achieve a sustainable and just recovery that reaches all citizens in all territories. And section 27 of the State General Budgets Bill for 2022 that I come to present today is one of the best exponents of that recovery plan, in particular for the unprecedented investment in digital transformation that will be executed by the ministry that headed it. Firstly, the budget as a whole amounts to more than EUR 5200 million, an increase of 2.3% over 2021. In the two years, 2021 and 2022, the total budget of the ministry will multiply by more than six times, reflecting the substantial change in the implementation of an absolutely key digital agenda for the future of Spain. In addition, in 2022 we will continue to make progress in the deployment of the Recovery Plan. In particular, funding from the plan, from European funds, is increasing by more than 7 %, reaching EUR 4 billion. Finally, the budget provides for increased investment in human capital and the resources required for the effective deployment of this Recovery Plan. By expenditure chapters, staff are increasing by almost 14%, in line with the offer of public employment and the provision of jobs through competition, mainly linked, as I have already pointed out, to the deployment of the Recovery Plan. Current expenditure increases by almost 90% for coin minting, advertising and financial education. Financial expenditure is increased by almost 80% by ICO line expenditure. It should be recalled that, thanks to public guarantees, guarantees of EUR 101 449 million have been deployed to mobilise more than EUR 133 345 million in financing for the entire productive fabric, in particular for SMEs and self-employed people, in 1,131,000 operations. Current transfers, for their part, fall by more than 8%, mainly due to the reduction marked by the European Union in contributions to the debt relief of Greece. In any case, it is important to note that Spain's commitments to multilateral financial institutions are maintained and strengthened, increasing the budget for 2021 by 2022 by more than EUR 26 million with the aim of enhancing Spain's presence in global economic governance and channelling our country's commitment to the 2030 Agenda Sustainable Development Goals, the fight against climate change and the effects of the COVID pandemic. The line for real investment is down almost 43 %, but the line for capital transfers is increasing by almost 30 %. This budgetary reorganization responds to the fact that public sector entities and agencies will be key to the implementation of the Recovery Plan. The chapter on financial operations is down by more than 34%, because, at the moment, we are concentrating action on transfers to the real economy for the deployment of the plan. And within this chapter it is worth noting a budget of 12 million euros to Enisa to support the programme of startups led by women entrepreneurs, which also shows the commitment of the digital agenda to gender equality. If broken down by bodies of the ministry, the undersecretariat responsible for internal management has a budget of 44 million euros, 1.3% more than in the budgets of 2021; the Secretariat of State of Economy and Enterprise Support will have a budget of 806 million euros; the Secretariat of State of Digitization and Artificial Intelligence will have a budget of almost 3 billion euros, which for the most part, more than 2500 million euros, will come from the recovery plan; the Secretariat of State of Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructures will have a budget of more than 1400 million euros, increasing more than 22 % regarding the previous year, and in this case the totality of the funds also comes from the recovery plan. It is worth stopping for a minute to explain in more detail the drive for digitisation represented by these budgets, because the drive for digital transformation is one of the four main axes of the Recovery Plan, an absolutely key lever to relaunch economic growth, reduce inequality and increase productivity and take advantage of all the opportunities offered by new technologies, and all this with a humanist approach, focused on protecting our democratic rights and values. The deployment of this digital agenda is marked by seven aspects, which are perfectly reflected in this draft budget. Firstly, increasing the effort to deploy the connectivity plan. The Single Programme will have almost EUR 750 million in 2022, which is 26% more than in the current year, thus moving towards the goal of having high-speed connectivity at 100 megabits per second and that high-speed connectivity reaches 100 percent of the population by 2025. Digital connectivity is an absolutely key issue in terms of the fight against the demographic challenge, the social and territorial cohesion of our country, the vertebration of our entire territory, the closing of the digital divide between the different age groups, the accompaniment of the most vulnerable population groups or access to public services. It is clear that connectivity is an essential element for such digital transformation. The investment we have planned for 2022 has no precedent. This is more than EUR 13 billion between 2021 and 2022, four times more than the sum of the investment for the years 2019 and 2020. The scope of connectivity and infrastructure was probably the one in which there was most investment in previous years. Secondly, next year we will also increase the effort to boost the 5G, where we will provide almost 650 million euros of investment, 130% more than in 2021, to accelerate the deployment of this technology and get closer to the target of 75% of the population by 2025 and to finance R & D+i in 5G and 6G networks. It should be noted that yesterday the Council of Ministers approved a major transfer of resources to leading research and university centres in the field of R & D & I in advanced 5G and 6G networks. Between 2021 and 2022 we will be devoting almost 900 million euros to the 5G drive, an investment area that was not envisaged in the 2019 and 2020 budgets. Thirdly, we will spend more than EUR 180 million on cybersecurity in 2022. For the period 2021-2022 these investments represent almost 400 million; this is three and a half times more than the 110 million we had in the period 2019-2020. These investments are absolutely fundamental to strengthening the capacities of the public administration, including citizens and our businesses, to tackle the growing cyber threats. Fourthly, we will increase the ministry's investment in digital administration, devoting almost €400 million in 2022, 15% more than in the current year. This leads us, in the period 2021-2022, to an investment of 700 million euros; this is seven times more than the investment budgeted in the period 2019-2020, which will help us to have a more efficient administration, tractor of the whole economy, closer and more accessible to all citizens. Fifthly, we will significantly increase investment in SMEs and self-sustaining digitisation, with a budget of more than EUR 16 billion in 2022; this is approximately 1 billion more than in 2021. This effort will mainly be devoted to the deployment of the Digital Kit. It is a program that we are going to announce precisely tomorrow and that is intended to boost the digital transformation of Spanish SMEs and autonomous by means of a digitalization bonus that allows them to finance a set of services and solutions already available on the market; we are talking about website, presence on the internet, digitization of customer management, provider management, the digital office or data processing. Before the end of the year we will launch this first call for 500 million euros for companies between ten and forty-nine workers and in 2022 we will continue with companies of other sizes. I do not have to highlight the amount of investment, absolutely unprecedented, to support our SME fabric. It is enough to say that the investment during 2021 and 2022 multiplied by 14 the investment made in this field during the period 2019 and 2020, which demonstrates the commitment of the Government of Spain to use the funds of the Recovery Plan to support the activity of our SMEs, the heart of our productive fabric. Sixthly, the budgets of 2022 also provide for EUR 55 million for the development of digital skills, which joins the 980 budgeted in 2021, and thus complements an investment of EUR 1 billion in the period 2021-2022. This will undoubtedly be one of the priorities for the 2022 financial year. It is an investment effort fourteen times greater than that dedicated to digital competitions in the period 2019-2020. This is an absolutely key area for our citizens to be able to take full advantage of the changes and opportunities provided by digital transformation, because we are going to invest not only in the basic digital skills of our citizens, with very special attention to the most vulnerable groups - people at risk of exclusion, our elders, the girls - but also in advanced and specialized digital skills for our workers. This ultimately means investing in economic development and social cohesion. Finally, in 2022, we will continue the deployment of the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, for which we have provided almost 300 million euros, in addition to the 300 million budgeted for 2021. The investment will focus mainly on the development of data spaces for strategic projects in sectors such as health - this strategic project has already been discussed here a moment ago - and tourism, since, of course, data are essential for the deployment of artificial intelligence. This represents a joint investment of about 600 million euros in the period 2021-2022, more than two and a half times the investment in artificial intelligence for the previous period 2019-2020. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody misses how hard these last twenty-one months have been, following an unprecedented pandemic, and these General State Budgets in this context are now more important than ever. We are facing an absolutely historic moment and the decisions we make today will mark the future of our country. These budgets are good for Spain and for our citizens. They will allow us to achieve a greener, more digital, fairer country for all and all, with full fiscal responsibility. I am convinced that your ladies and gentlemen share the importance of these budgets and will live up to the circumstances. We play a lot and it's time to think about the country with high eyes. The budget of the Ministry of Economy, Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation will be fully devoted to this objective, namely to achieve a strong, sustained, sustainable and inclusive economic recovery, ultimately a fair recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mrs Muñoz Vidal is speaking first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Vice President, welcome. I do not find anything if I tell you that these budgets are drawn up taking into account obsolete growth figures, as they were made with macroeconomic forecasts of a growth of Spain's GDP of 6.5% by 2021. These are predictions that I think we are all clear that every day they want more pessimistic and more unattainable. This optimistic growth translates into an income forecast that we might call unreal. Regrettably, you will again square your accounts, either by raising taxes even further, or by way of budget failure. Having said that, and after the jar of cold water that the National Institute of Statistics threw on our growth in the second quarter, everything points out that this third quarter, which includes the summer months, is going to be better. It is clear that the pandemic has led to fluctuations in the economy of magnitudes that are hardly comparable, even difficult to predict. It is necessary for me to recommend, if I may, that you have less euphoria and more caution at many times in anticipating forecasts. Because much more important than the growth of a quarter is the level of GDP growth as a whole per year, and in the latter it is clear that Spain is very late in the recovery, because we still have much to reach our level of pre-COVID GDP. Because, moreover, the government - its government or any government -, in a situation like this, has little influence on the evolution of growth, on the evolution of GDP in the short term, because it depends on many factors, the pandemic, the supply crisis, the high price of energy, in particular light and gas. What a Government does have is the responsibility to prepare the country for the future, and its Government is not only doing that, but is weakening the foundations of our economy, and I say to it because: it exacerbates the sustainability problems of our pension system; it threatens to introduce rigidity in our labour market; it is damaging job creation; it still does not present a credible fiscal consolidation plan that prepares us for a possible withdrawal of the stimulus by the European Central Bank. It is true that Brussels has failed to assess whether our budget is good or bad, because tax rules are suspended, but this very morning it has made an assessment and has again asked us for fiscal prudence. He has told us everything you have told us, but he tells us that, please, let us be cautious about our serious macroeconomic imbalances. And Brussels - you have not said this, I say this - has again included us in the group of the twelve countries with the most macroeconomic imbalances, including, in addition to the deficit and public debt, high unemployment, the external position, the debt of the business sector and the risk of accumulation of toxic assets in the banking sector. Therefore, we should be making our economy stronger, minister. He said that job creation is being undermined, that there is a threat of flexibility in the labour market and that this credible consolidation plan is missing, but that the efficient use of European funds is not being guaranteed. In the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022, investment in digitisation increases by 7.6%, to more than EUR 12.3 billion. And as far as the ministry we are dealing with, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, there are numerous spending programmes dealing with digitisation, since, in addition, digital transformation is one of the priority objectives of the European Union's Next Generation recovery package. The Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the MRR, funds all of the various digitisation programmes planned for the year 2022. That is why it is incomprehensible, Minister, that most of the amendments in my group have been vetoed, which have prevented us from even discussing - I am no longer saying that you have voted against these factors, which are finally earmarked for the MRR funds, items created within the government's own sections, where we are talking about digital skills, cybersecurity, rural connectivity or SME digitisation. Why has all this been vetoed if we are the first to know that European funds are linked to conditions and investments in certain aspects? Moreover, you have said here all these things that include the budget. What have you done with these budgets? Why do they say it is incompatible with the European guidelines? Look, I'm going to tell you what two real problems Spain has right now. On the one hand, we are the only country that is relying on virtually all of the recovery to the aid from European funds, and we are the ones who are most behind in the implementation of these funds. This makes us grow less than Italy and the average of the European Union. That is, our productive fabric, our businesses and our self-employed are going through this lung crisis, without receiving any aid. Speaking of silver, Spain is being quite busy in recovery aid, relying everything on a Recovery and Resilience Mechanism that we don't know or can't use. I'm done, Vice President, because everything's not going to be negative. We have not been vetoed by Amendment 304, the Austrian backpack and the reduction in the number of contracts. I hope it wasn't a waste of time. Yesterday, Minister Yolanda Díaz spoke about the Europeanisation of the labour market.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u130	You have to finish, Mrs. Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u131	I'm done, President. A few days ago, you in some statements read that you had sown the seed of the Austrian backpack in the new ERTE. Keep moving along that path that we can meet there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u133	Thank you very much, President. Welcome, Vice President. It is a pleasure to have you here at such untimely hours, in a parliamentary session at three and four in the afternoon. It will allow me a small allegory and, of course, it will be taken with the fair play that we have to take in parliamentary debates. These days, when I saw Cadiz's tank, you reminded me of Cadiz's tank. I know you've never been called a tanker, I know, but it's gotta be the first time. You know why? Because the tanker is the allegory and dilemma of this government, a government that dislodges on two fronts: the front that imposes reason, rationality and orthodoxy, and the other front that imposes heterodox, that imposes the different, a kind of phenomenon that is inventing a new communism that is the ego opposition, that is the opposition to themselves, and you are the tanker that had to put order, that had to put economic and budgetary order within the disorder of that concert, of that ordality that forms the government of the nation. By the way, congratulations, it has just been a hundred years since the founding of the Communist Party of Spain. I say that because I understand that they are communists, I have to congratulate them because a hundred years and a week ago the Communist Party of Spain was founded. The truth is that its government partners are living in dislocation. I was saying it yesterday. On the one hand, they oppose themselves: Kichi against Kichi; Belarus against Belarus; Díaz against Díaz; Kichi against Chiqui; Chiqui against Kichi and finally Garzón against all. That is the position really in a species I say of total corifee where no one understands anything at all. The Europeanists and the New Monarchs. Welcome, of course, to rationality. But, I insist, you came to be the moderator tique. You know that I recognize your professional ability, I recognize your experience, I recognize your expertise, I don't doubt it. You are not part of the political charlatanerie lot, in any case, but I do have to tell you one thing: you have failed. It has succumbed and it was normal to succumb, despite all the efforts that I am convinced it has made in a bold way to prevent the imposition of communist impulse, the irredent impulse of some political formations. These days much is being said about the Mass of the other day. What a fixation with the Mass! If you, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Government have just been renamed by Bildu, you have just communed with the Republican Left and have just had confirmation directly with Unite Podemos. [[Applauds]] That is your religion and that is your Mass, because that is the true liturgy that you are celebrating. Do not take advantage of an episode that has no importance from a contingent point of view, which does not have any importance, and you have indeed made an absolutely ignominious liturgy of closing a pact with the worst confreres with which a pact can be concluded: with the destituents, with the independenceists, with those who consider that in Spain there are Spanish first and Spanish second. That's the reality. I insist, Madam Vice-President, that I am convinced that you have done what you have been able to; personally you know that I recognize your worth and your ability, but you have lost. And then, of course, you, who is not a charlatan and who obviously is not going to play the game of imposture, what you do is play the game of denial - it couldn't be otherwise - the game of denial and the game of asserting that these are obviously good budgets for Spain. Look, these budgets are going through absolutely ridiculous and illusory biases, as you know. First of all, we have several problems, such as inflationary tension. We have had nine months of permanent inflationary tension that has led to the price of energy rising more than 60%, the price of fuels rising more than 30%, and there are structural elements that are still more strained by inflation, among other things by indexing certain important policies or expenditure items in the budget; that still straines the inflationary stress of budgets more and you know it well. If we add that, among other things, interest rates have not been set in the light of inflationary tensions, we have an additional problem; if the fiscal stimulus that had been maintained for two years and a progressive tapering is going to take place, we know that inflationary pressure is going to increase much more. The budgetary scenario you painted, the macroeconomic picture had only some real data, which are the data already completed, the data for the year 2020. In 2020, the truth is that we have consumed the worst year in our country's economic history in the last century. It is the reality, there were structural factors, there were systemic factors, but there were also contingent factors, which is the discretionary action, logically, of a Government to try to alleviate all this. Look, 128 billion destruction of gross domestic product, not even in all the years of the financial crisis, where the destruction of wealth was 98 000, we have reached this figure; the highest level of destruction of employment, both collective and by sector. And sometimes you tell me, Madam Vice-President: it is that you are selecting fragmentary data. No, look, I could do populism and say that what is fragmented are the lives of the Spaniards, they are not fragmentary data. We're practically at the tail of all the rankings, and this had to be the fundamental lever to boot, and unfortunately it's not going to be; it's not going to be, among other things, because tax revenues are estimated under projections that are not credible, neither direct taxes nor indirect taxes, and you know it. To base the growth of tax collection on inflation, on the additional 4 billion tax, when they do raise taxes and consolidate the fiscal growth that had been in place last year, is obviously not a necessary fiscal buffer to cover expenditure. By the way, a structural deficit is consolidated by around 5%, the largest structural deficit in the whole of the European Union, and they still do not analyse the rationalization of public expenditure. You and I, who are professionals in this, know that we could do this, even sit one day with Mr Escrivá and remind him of what he said about the spending review and that there was a chance to review public spending in Spain around 30 billion. But I want to end one thing, Vice President. The budget could be an opportunity, but the budget suffers from a problem that I have been warning you of, and I also believe that carefully and thoroughly over the past few months, and it is an issue of enforceability; you know that the budget has an issue of enforceability. On the one hand, there are the PERTE, which we are getting to know them by dropper, the minifundism of the PERTE, which is right to be that there is PERTE whenever they are approved and implemented, and that establishes what is the legal instrument for its implementation. Secondly, if transfers to the autonomous communities come late, of course, the calls you announce are going to come late, and the only thing left to you in the end is to fatten the sunk costs of the budget. That is why you increase the budget for expenditure items, including Chapter 1, which increases by 15% when your entire budget grows by around 2%; it is not exactly something that is very orthodox from the point of view of budgetary science. [[The lady]] In any case, the Vice-President encouraged her to continue working. We will not be an opposition to the digitisation processes - I told you once, we can work on it - but you will ensure that the Community funds are implemented. This year has been frustrating; I hope that next year will not be the same. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking in this debate about Section 27 of the State General Budgets of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Welcome, Minister. The truth is, I was very surprised when Mr. Garcés told you that you were like the tanker on the Cadiz strike. Of course, we don't like the image of the tanker, but by analyzing this budget, we value it positively. Mr Garcés, you have also told the Minister that she is not part of the political charlatanerie. And I have to tell you that I believe you are part of the political charlatanry, because you have not spoken of Section 27. [[Applauds]] So let's see what we're talking about, huh? If we look at the budget in this section, we can see - this has been said at the last moment - that the budget is being increased in Chapter 1, what are the staff costs, with the aim of strengthening human resources and ensuring high levels of implementation of European funds. From United We can think that the increase in this chapter is positive and is a first step towards the effective implementation of the investments of the Recovery Plan. In this regard, we believe that the government's economic policy strategy should be largely geared towards successful implementation, but we believe that not all is implementation, and that mechanisms for the efficient control and management of funds are also needed, as well as regulatory mechanisms to ensure access to European funds also for SMEs, self-employed people and social economy entities. On the other hand, the budget of this section shows how the support of small and medium-sized enterprises continues with 2140 million European funds for the SME Pulse Plan, and with an additional 16 billion for the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Spain's commitment to multilateral institutions also remains. It also highlights the drive for connectivity measures and the deployment of 5G networks and services, which are a starting point for implementing the Digital Spain Strategy 2025, as explained by the minister. Our parliamentary group has always been arguing that the digitization process must act as a lever for social and territorial inclusion and cohesion, promoting the reduction of digital gaps in gender, generational, territorial and economic reasons. In addition, the process of digital transformation should serve as a catalyst for the ecological transition already under way, encouraging a shift towards the development of less intensive production, distribution and consumption patterns in the use of energy and material resources, and more sustainable also in the generation of waste and greenhouse gas emissions. For us, Minister, these budgets consolidate a turning point in our country's economic policy, demonstrating that it is possible to emerge from an economic and social crisis through expansionary budgets, which bet on investment as a tool for the transformation of our productive model, without forgetting the role of social spending, social investment to strengthen our welfare state and guarantee access to quality services, achieving equal opportunities. These are budgets to rebuild the country. We do not want a new normality based on the precariousness that we have experienced during the decades of right-wing governance in the government. We want to build a different country, laying the concrete foundations for an ecological, feminist and social justice future. Taking advantage of this moment as an opportunity for the transformation of our country is a necessity, and these General State Budgets are a first step in that direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u137	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, good afternoon. More than a year ago in the Commission I warned you of the danger of governing at any price, and I really thought you were different, but I was wrong. Let me claim this afternoon the student movement of Manos Blancas in memory of the assassinations in 1996 of Fernando Múgica, a former socialist leader, to whom the terrorists shot in the back of his head when he left his office in San Sebastián, and that of Francisco Tomás and Valiente, eight days later, murdered in his office of the Autonomous University of Madrid. At that time the former President of the Government, Felipe González, said: ETA is killing my friends. [[He placed two white hands leaning on stands in the speaker's rostrum]] Serve these two white hands as a reminder of that movement and the rejection of these vile and cowardly budgets, agreed with ETA's heirs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u138	Wait a minute, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause]] Thank you so much. The causes are all praiseworthy. Also the one you are demonstrating today, but this is the speaker's rostrum, and the symbols - which is commendable - if you do the favor, you have to withdraw them. [[Mr. Jiménez Revuelta removes white hands]] Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u139	I disagree, Madam President. I'm not doing anything at all. I think it's a licit enough move, but, well, I pull them out and leave them here. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u140	This is the house of the word. The objectives of the speaker are laudable and shared by all democrats, but, said that, this is the speaker's rostrum. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u141	By the way, President Sánchez, with the welcome of the unworthy Marlaska, has approached this year the assassins of Fernando Múgica and Tomás and Valiente. You can see they've changed friends, minister. What a shame! Today many socialists deny the totalitarian drift of this government. Mrs. Calviño, you're still in time to react. In addition, many actions today are freely decided by man; among them, many acts of violence and crimes emanating from free decisions, but not for that reason should be justified. This, Madam Minister, is what this Government wants us to believe, making us see that those detestable acts, such as this, simply because they have decided freely, are seen as good and justified. But, Minister, it is impossible to accept the unacceptable; to defend the indefensible and what I have heard this week to defend these budgets is simply untenable. Entering Section 27 of the ministry you preside over, I would like to start by talking about your ministry's expectations of the macroeconomic picture, basing our economic recovery on consumption growth, with an indicator such as card spending, above 30%, according to you, but that however has not taken into account how much of that spending is debt and that today less cash is used. Secondly, I would like to talk about the ICO guarantee line, with a mobilisation of EUR 132 billion in more than 1 100 000 operations, focusing mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 98% of the operations backed up and corresponding to 619 000 enterprises. But in the coming year these loans granted by the guarantee line will begin to be repaid, and the risk of default, which is increasing, can cause many companies to disappear, and the State, which has endorsed up to 80% of the operations, has to assume them through debt, unless it continues to extend the repayment of the loans until the disappearance and competition of the companies. Thirdly, on the increase in energy costs, which is increasing the costs of businesses and affecting the disposable income of families, by policies of bipartisanism that have made Spain dependent on other countries energetically, losing energy sovereignty, and all so that the revolving doors of the big energy companies become asylum for retired politicians. Fourthly, I would like to talk about the new General Law on Audiovisual Communication, which leaves almost no one happy, and about the figure of the independent producer, which benefits large corporations such as Spanish Broadcasting, Atresmedia or Mediapro - by the way, watered with public money - to the detriment of the small audiovisual producers to whom it does not protect, and which will lead to their extinction. Another price to pay for these budgets, and accept what is unacceptable, is the blackmail of Esquerra Republicana to impose Catalan on audiovisual platforms, such as Netflix or HBO. And now, with the infamous pact with Bildu, they intend to impose the Basque not only through audiovisual platforms, such as Esquerra Republicana, but they will broadcast the ETV3 throughout the Navarro territory, with the firm intention of indoctrining through television to build nationalisms. Fifthly, we express our concern about the excessive use of artificial intelligence and, therefore, about the dehumanization of technology. And it is that the president of the World Economic Forum, Klaus Schwab, and one of the drivers of the 2030 Agenda - that which all groups in the parliamentary arc, less VOX, have bought - exposes the possibility of being able to transfer our mind to a computer, which is known as mind uploading. It also warns that this fourth revolution in which we are immersed will lead to a fusion of our physical, digital and biological identities, producing a total fusion of man with the machine. Mr Klaus points out in one of his works the issue of medical passports that will be digitized in the future, that is, those known as green pass. This makes us think that so-called digital green certificates, because of the COVID-19, are a unique opportunity and whose true purpose is total control and loss of all freedom, without which you will not be able to move, you will not be able to buy or you will not be able to work. [[Applauds]] In short, Madam Minister, budgets marked by the whitewashing of ETA's heirs, by the transfer to the enemies of Spain and by macroeconomic forecasts amended by the regulatory bodies. Minister, let these white hands today in memory of the victims of ETA remind you of the shame and indignity of these budgets, and that we can never accept what is unacceptable. [[shows the two white hands]] Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u143	Madam President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are not going to consent to any democracy lesson from the party of hatred, crispation, intolerance, Francoism, and much less to this party that has left its skin, and even life, for achieving peace, democracy and coexistence in Euskadi, forever and in spite of people like you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, no matter how much it weighs you. [[Prolonged applause.- Mr. Jiménez Revuelta shows the two white hands]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and the People's Group, you have been reporting facts as if we had not experienced a pandemic. They have even come to say that the policies of this Government are detrimental to job creation and say so, ladies and gentlemen, in a country which today has the highest historical number of social security members, with more than 20 million workers, and where, for the first time in history, we have recovered employment than gross domestic product, thanks to the policies of this Government. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about budgets for days in this plenary session, weeks since they were approved by the Council of Ministers. Actually, we've had weeks of disqualifications, insults and lies. They've been talking to who for weeks instead of who, and you know why? Because they do not want it to be known that this Government is responding to the biggest health and economic crisis with social justice, equity and responsibility, and especially because they do not want what the People's Party did in the previous economic crisis to be known. Well, I can sum it up: cuts, privatizations, massive tax increases and co-payments. Faced with this, the policies of the PSOE: public investment, European funds, support for families and workers and the greatest social spending in history. [[Applauds]] If you have any doubts, I will detail this: in the face of the rise in pensions according to the CPI that this government is doing, you have frozen and also approved a reform that condemned the pensioners to a cut of between 30 and 40%; in the face of the protection of workers and families through the ERTE and the ICOs, the PP has dedicated itself to rescuing the banks; in the face of the fair taxation of this government, which wants 15% of corporation tax as a minimum tax rate, the People's Party has approved indecent tax amnesties to the defrauders; in the face of subsidies to rent for young people, housing, the cultural bonus, the scholarships, vocational training or the boost to science, you have placed a stake on the exile of our youth, whom they called external mobility; in the face of the implementation of the minimum vital income or the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the People's Party has cut unemployment benefits or even eliminated the subsidy to more than fifty-five workers's and two-year old workers' union law and employers' reform. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, our affection, solidarity and support for the more than 20,000 workers in the province of Cadiz who these days claim their rights and decent working conditions. [[Applauds]] They have us by their side, by their side. And it is said by a party that has devoted its entire life to the protection of the rights of the working class in this country, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of all this goes the General Budgets of the State for 2022, and that is why they do not want it to be known. That's why they don't want us to talk about them. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, today we can say that this Congress of Deputies, that politics has returned to this country. Let our country return to normalcy and stability after years of blockades by the People's Party when it ruled and, now that they do not, with all the obstacles they can. But, despite you and your irresponsible opposition, today I am telling you that for the second year in a row this country, comrades of the Socialist Group, of the United Nations Podemos and of all the parliamentary forces that are going to support you, we will have General State Budgets for 2022. [[Applauds]] I know it doesn't matter to you, I know it doesn't matter to you, almost everything doesn't matter to you, but we are proud of Spain, proud of the example we are setting in the world, proud of being one of the countries with the highest percentage of vaccinated population, proud of contributing even with solidarity to those countries that today have no guaranteed vaccines, proud of having one of the most ambitious and best targeted recovery plans in the whole European Union, Madam Vice-President. In short, we are proud of the social democracy, proud of the PSOE, proud of this progressive government and proud of President Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of this country, proud to have understood that it was time to be with people, proud to understand that we had to fight the pandemic and promote a fair recovery, as this government is doing, and also through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation to boost the competitiveness, credibility of Spain abroad, territorial vertebration, the reduction of the gender gap, and the ecological transition and digital transformation of our economy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, through the Ministry of Economy, we are going to invest the largest sums in the digitisation of our companies, our autonomous companies, the public administration, in order to end the digital divide between rural and urban areas, the 5G drive, connectivity or cybersecurity. In short, I can sum it up in case they have not understood it: six times more budget with the Socialist Party for the digitisation and modernisation of SMEs compared to the last budget of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Our country faces the adoption of the General State Budgets by 2022, a decisive step towards progress in consolidation and economic recovery and job creation, that is, the economy at the service of the people. That's what these General State Budgets are about, and that's why they don't like them anyway. Thank you so much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u144	Thank you, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the debate on section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my budget intervention, I believe that we cannot fail to send a loving, affectionate and supportive greeting to the workers of Cadiz, who are fighting for their rights and for the rights of all in this country. [[Applauds]] Labour and social rights have never been given to the social majority, they have been conquered by ordinary people, by the workers, by the men and women below, who have mobilized throughout history to achieve a better life for society, and they have always been achieved despite the resistance, before and now, of the elites of our country. If today there are women speaking in this rostrum, if today there is the right to protest in Spain or the right to paid holidays, it is because before us others fought for our rights, and what the workers of Cadiz do is fight for the rights of our children. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the general budgets of 2021 enabled us to achieve two very important political objectives: on the one hand, to address with a very high degree of social protection the worst health, economic and social crisis our country had experienced in decades. We left behind a stage full of austerity, cuts and privatizations, and we showed that people can be protected in the midst of an economic crisis, and that this is not only more humane and more ethical, but also more efficient at the economic level. On the other hand, the General Budgets of the State for the year 2021 consolidated the progressive and plurinational majority that supports the coalition government, which allowed the investiture in January 2020. This step was fundamental in order to start the legislature once and for all and to show that in Spain it governs a stable Executive, which works to improve the lives of Spanish and Spanish people every day. The accounts we are processing for 2022 perform functions at least as important as last year's budgets, and today we can congratulate ourselves on reaching an agreement with the Republican Left of Catalonia, with Euskal Herria Bildu and with the rest of the progressive forces to carry them forward. From here I would like to thank these groups for their willingness to dialogue and their ability to focus on consensus rather than disagreement, and to put together with the Spanish Government the first pillars of a reconstruction that will surely be green, that will surely be digital, but that must necessarily be fair. I am convinced that the diversity of the political forces represented in this Parliament, and the mandate given to us by the citizens of this country in the past general elections, the obligation to reach agreements between those we think differently, not only does not weaken us, but also strengthens our democracy. The progressive majority that we make up helps us to move forward and we are seeing it completely clearly. For example, in guaranteeing the right to housing or in a decent public pension system. That, ladies and gentlemen, is always good news. Together we are stronger and together we do better. [[Applauds]] Despite the importance of this majority, I did not want to stop addressing the opposition and share a little reflection with you. These are hugely expansive budgets, including the largest public investment in history, an unprecedented investment in youth or dependency. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are the subject, the threads with which we are going to weave the reconstruction of our country, a green reconstruction, a feminist reconstruction, a social reconstruction and, above all, a just one. These budgets include essential resources so that people in our country can be cared for at home with the support they need and do not have to go to a residence, resources to invest in the rehabilitation of buildings to make them more sustainable at the energy level and more accessible, essential resources to fight more and better against machista violence. I say this humbly, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, a responsible opposition would take this opportunity to demonstrate a height of vision and State responsibility. These budgets are essential for recovery to reach the pockets of the people of our country, and for every citizen to see how their lives improve. I think that is the only reason why these budgets should be adopted by consensus in this House. In these accounts the budget of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 grows by 20% compared to 2021. We have allocated EUR 772 million more than last year. Once again we reinforce our commitment to the people who are having the worst of it in our country, and who need a government to protect and shelter them when things get difficult. This budget proposal also allows us to channel the distribution of the social axis of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which this year amounts to more than 1060 million euros, an increase of 16% over the year 2021. We are facing a historic opportunity to begin to change the orientation of our country's economic and social model, which has demonstrated all its limits in an extraordinarily difficult year and a half. In the next two years we are going to build Spain over the next decades, and in that we are putting the best of ourselves. If there is one element that I would like to highlight in this section is the unprecedented investment in dependency care. As you all know, in 2006 the Unit Law was a fundamental milestone in the assumption of the State's essential responsibility for the right to care and the advancement of social rights in our country, a milestone that, regrettably, was squandered by the cuts of the People's Party, and behind every adjustment, as euphemistically said, there were thousands of people who were not guaranteed their rights, thousands of women who had to make double and triple days, and many compatriots who had to see how until the end of their lives they waited on a waiting list. To all the people who listen to us, I want to tell them that I know there is still much to be done but that we will not stop until the right to care is guaranteed in our country and dignified care reaches each of the people. That is why this government has already included in last year's budgets a shock plan of EUR 600 million, which in just one year had all the cuts in this area by the People's Party. This year we resume a historic figure for the second consecutive year in the State's funding of the dependency, the highest since the financing and approval of this law. In two years we have practically doubled the state's investment in dependency and we will continue to work to ensure that this translates into better care for our citizens. We will put an end to the policy of abandonment, to the policy of afparate you, to the policy of saving anyone who can, which has been for too many years the norm in the attention to the system to dependence, in order to move to what always had to be normal, a policy of certainties, mutual support and protected rights. From here I ask all the political forces that govern in their respective public administrations to invest up to the last euro of these games, because that will be essential for people in dependency in our country to live a little better. In the same vein, the Government maintains its commitment to disability policies with 15 million euros of regular budget and 58 million euros of the Recovery Plan that will be allocated to the Spanish Accessible Country Programme To ensure accessibility from an integral perspective. We firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that ensuring and extending the rights of persons with disabilities is a State task. These budgets also bring a new look at childhood and adolescence. That is why I would like to highlight the EUR 25 million allocation in these budgets for the implementation of the Law on Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, known as the Rhodes Law. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, we commemorate International Day of the Rights of Children and Adolescents, and I believe that the best way to demonstrate our commitment to the fight against violence against children and adolescents is precisely this, to put on the table the resources necessary to prevent any kind of violence against children. Violence destroys children, destroys lives and institutions we can no longer look elsewhere. In the same way, these accounts also represent a clear and strong bet for youth. Many of our young people are in a very difficult situation in the face of job insecurity, high housing prices or insecurity when developing their life projects. That is why this Government is working to adopt the housing law as soon as possible and repeal labour reform and ensure that the lives of young people in our country are more stable and safer. But this path starts today and starts here, with a historic investment in youth in these budgets, with 12 550 million euros, which means an increase of 84% over last year. [[Applauds]] Another of the main thrusts of the budget of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 is the strengthening of social services, which during the last two crises have been absolutely essential to protect people, and have had to do so in a situation of enormous precariousness after years of cuts and privatizations. That is why this Government is once again increasing the social services budget, with an increase of EUR 15 million in transfers to the autonomous communities to finance social programmes. Similarly, as I said at the outset, this government is very clear that its absolute priority is people in the most vulnerable situation, and in this regard I believe that the 3% increase in minimum living income, the 3% increase in non-contributory and minimum pensions and the 2.5% increase in IPREM are absolutely essential measures that will reach those who need them most. I think it is also important to mention that in these accounts we are once again increasing the budget of the Directorate-General for Animal Rights, with which we are carrying out an absolutely essential task for our country, a law on the protection and rights of animals. I know very well, and I know for sure, that legislation is still far from the feeling and consensus of our society regarding tolerance against abuse and animal sacrifice. Spain does not tolerate the abandonment or ill-treatment of animals and we need legislation as soon as possible throughout the State that protects them. That is why I hope that I can bring this law to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and that it will be legislation in force as soon as possible. I would also like to highlight another key issue: We have budgets that are fully aligned with the 2030 Agenda and are moving forward in a sustainable development strategy that the Council of Ministers approved in June and which also mandates the entire Government. After its adoption, we now have the challenge of putting all the necessary means in place to realize this strategy and also to achieve the sustainable development goals. Throughout this intervention I have broken down some elements that are going to be essential to meet the agenda, but I would like to highlight in particular the need for indispensable collaboration among all the actors who have a role in this achievement. That is why these budgets keep their investments to all the actors essential to the agenda, and we also increase more than double the investment directed to local entities for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, reaching the figure of 10.6 million euros. Building a feminist country, socially just and environmentally sustainable, are country challenges that require the participation of all actors: academia, civil society, autonomous communities and, of course, municipalities, lobbyists, councils and all local administrations, who know better than any other government on a day-to-day basis. That is why these budgets will support them on this path to achieve together a fairer and more sustainable country. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to fail to share a reflection which seems to me to be particularly important with regard to the competences assigned to this ministry. For us it was essential, as it could not be otherwise, that these budgets increase their investment in social policies, but it was also essential that we begin to correct the enormous physical distance that separates us from the European average. The Forbes list of the 100 richest people in Spain points out that they have increased their fortune during the year 2021 by 17%, and this is not because during this year these people have worked more or worked harder. I think everyone knows, more in this House, that in this tough year, the people who have really made sacrifices have been the least. That is why today more than ever we must advance in fiscal justice. Who else has to pay more, because without fiscal justice we will never have social justice. [[Applauds]] And the main responsibility for our people not being able to enjoy decent and good lives is inequality. That is why I am particularly proud that Spain joins the OECD agreement and these budgets start to include that minimum tax of 15% for large companies, so that large companies start paying what they have in Spain. It is true that we still have much room for improvement, that we would like this tax to be on the taxable basis, but I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we are moving in the right direction. In addition, these accounts are complemented by two rules which are absolutely crucial to help guarantee social rights in Spain. On the one hand, the State Housing Act, which for the first time understands housing as a right and not as a market asset. That is why this law sets out such important measures as opening the door to the regulation of rental prices, the necessary co-responsibility of large owners in guaranteeing the right to housing, protection against evictions or the obligation to allocate 30% of new promotions and major reforms, including 15% to social rental; measures, ladies and gentlemen, which are a paradigm shift and which I hope will continue to improve throughout the course of their proceedings in this House. In that job, I'm convinced we're all going to find each and every one of us. Finally, I also wanted to take this opportunity to thank this House for the very intense and substantial work that has been done to improve minimum living income. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that have taken part in its proceedings, because the amendments adopted will allow us to broaden the spectrum, which more people can receive the minimum living income, the possibility of having the most favourable income period for the applicant person or an increase in the amounts for persons with disabilities. And I would especially like to refer to the increase of EUR 100 per month per child between zero and three years for both receiving and low-income families in our country, EUR 70 per month for families with children between three and six years and EUR 50 per month for families with children between six and eighteen years. I would like to think that this is the first step towards achieving universal child-rearing income in Spain to help all families with children and daughters. The aim is nothing other than to co-responsibility the State for the task of rearing, which on many occasions - you know very well - requires families a huge effort of time but also of resources, and thereby to guarantee the rights of children in our country. I finish because I believe that if something proves these budgets - any budget, but especially these - they are the priorities and the country project that the government has at its head, and in that sense I think ladies and gentlemen, that our priorities have become very clear: putting people at the centre, combating the climate emergency, addressing the digital transition and, above all, achieving social protection that protects the most vulnerable. I trust we can see them approved very soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u146	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. In the defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Joint Parliamentary Group, through the representatives of Teruel Existe and the Canary Coalition, has tabled a number of amendments to this Section 29, which I take for granted. Good afternoon, Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. With my intervention, I would like to re-emphasize the amendment of the whole that I tabled to the draft law on general state budgets for 2022, which was rejected by the plenary session of Congress at the beginning of November. In one of its sections, entitled A Government set up in unconstitutionality and challenging with the powers of the State, I refer to the lamentable episode, practically unprecedented in the democratic history of Spain, of a member of the Government - you, Mrs.Belara - who prevaricated the Supreme Court's action on account of the ruling on the case affecting a correspondent of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos. This unprecedented action against justice, this attack on the Supreme Court, which received a strong and immediate response from the General Council of the Judiciary, breaks the line of the most elementary democratic respect. But, as institutional dismantling is part of those who, like you, declare themselves anti-system and of those who, like you, here in this House, want to rock the structure of the State, today we have it defending these public accounts and calling for parliamentary support for a ministry converted into a spearhead against the powers of the State. I am glad that my speech gives you grace, Mrs Belarra. I have no doubt that they will succeed, because these supports reflect the perverse fate of this XIV Legislature, in which those who want to become independent from Spain mark the passage of the Sánchez government already since the investiture as president of the government in early 2020, but it will not be with the vote of Foro Asturias. Mrs Belarra, these are the first budgets you draw up at the head of a department from which you took possession eight months ago, following the resignation of Mr Turrion Churches, who only three days ago disqualified and attributed assembly judges and police to the orders of the opposition. He did so in his presence and with his applause, Minister of the Government of Spain, who does not seem to be aware of the responsibility for his position and the seriousness of these statements, although, above all, he does not seem to be the president who keeps you at the head of this department, encouraging these unfortunate accusations, which are utterly false and intolerable and undermine the democratic credibility of our country and the credibility of our main institutions. Minister of Agenda 2030, the discontent on the streets is increasing. Social rights in Spain are today very threatened as a consequence of the policy of this Government of ruin. After the resignation of his predecessor, the loss of the rank of Vice-President also led to the loss of coordination of fifteen ministries. In a period of growing impoverishment of society, his ministry has been reduced to the category of those in the heap, he is one more among the twenty-two. While the pandemic crisis is eating with the most underprivileged, disadvantaged or special needs, we have much more inequality and much more poverty than when the 14th Legislature began. Spain has also fallen back on the achievement of the sustainable development goals, some of which, on the other hand, do not meet the major national priorities by far. The accounts that you present to us in this bill contain estimates of revenue that are not to be produced, as you have already pointed out by different national and international bodies. The budgetary gaps, Minister for Social Rights, are going to make a lot of money in Spain and their consequences are going to suffer, above all and above all, the most vulnerable people and families. We have already experienced this in Spain in the previous crisis, which brought ruin to our country, which closed hundreds of thousands of companies and left more than three million workers unemployed. [[The Lord]] The Government is not generating the conditions for economic growth; instead, job creation is affected by tax pressure, by the renunciation of our energy sovereignty, by the problem of supplies with changes in the contributions paid by companies and workers. This government promised two years ago that it would lower the price of light, and today the electricity bill has multiplied. At the gates of winter, the bill is more expensive than ever and is added to the high fuel prices, to the escalating shopping basket and to an inflation that has returned us to figures from three decades ago. We have a government absent from the demographic tragedy of our society, which ages gallopingly like no other in the European Union but lacks incentives for families to have and raise children. We have a Government that proclaims that children and adolescents can live free from all forms of violence, while working with the left-wing wall of shame to prevent the investigation of minors under public guardianship who have been prostituted with impunity. [[Applauds]] In the final part of her speech, Mrs Belarra, she referred to her intention to legislate in favour of animals, of animal rights. Its general director in this matter is the author of the following tweeting pearl: 'The human being is the only mammal who steals milk from another species'. Well, don't count on the vote of an Asturian fan of Spain's livestock with such a philosophy. [[Applauds]] In short, we have a Government that is taking us in the opposite direction to mitigate and address the social needs of the Spaniards. That is why it also rejects the budgets of this section 29, with which the Government of Pedro Sánchez wants to continue this regressive and ruinous trajectory. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u149	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has had a multiplier effect on poverty and has deepened the gaps in inequality, which, as liberals, we cannot tolerate and aspire to fight. The pre-pandemic poverty risk rate was 26.4%, which means that there were 620,000 people at risk of social exclusion. [[The lady]] Moreover, this percentage has worsened in reference to situations of severe material poverty, affecting, as always, the most disadvantaged groups in our society, those who make up the high levels of poverty in our country, those families who have the greatest difficulty in assuming the high prices of light, fuel and shopping basket, in the face of the Government's lack of response to this reality, because it seems that the Government's responses to poverty are responses to the media, not to the needs of citizens. There is a lot of talk and a lot of talk under headlines, but it is not clear what is really the social response given to the great problems that citizens have in reaching the end of the month. In view of the current budgets, we have tabled a series of amendments which we find inconceivable that the Government has vetoed them. Ladies and gentlemen, this veto is a fact that shows that with your commitment to the social shield it is not the one that you preach, because you are not acting with the example. And we are going to talk about that social muscle that we have supported from Citizens; we support it in the Commission last week and we have supported it by making proposals that will really improve the effectiveness and the arrival of the budget, because, for example, we need to be clear that minimum living income is not even half of the target families, and it is incomprehensible that, since this is not the case and 50% of the budget that was allocated to it has not been implemented, a parliamentary group such as ours makes proposals to really reach the most needy and there is a frontal rejection. I will explain a couple of things to you, ladies and gentlemen, because we must put ourselves in the shoes of those who live in a situation of social exclusion. It is important, for example, because they need to know that there is poverty from the age of eighteen to the age of twenty-two, that there are vulnerable groups, such as many Gypsies and many migrants, who at the age of eighteen no longer live in their homes but have situations of poverty. Why are they denied access to minimum living income? Why is there direct discrimination solely on grounds of age? The Youth Council has said so. We make the proposals from Citizens, but no, minimum living income does not have to reach the poverty situations of the youngest in our society, the most vulnerable in our society. I find this paragraph outrageous, just as I find it outrageous that we should say that minimum living income does not arrive. And another example I'm going to give you: on many occasions, people who are most excluded have no choice but to share the home. What's going on? It is limited to a cohabitation unit to be able to ask for minimum living income. From Citizens we make a proposal to improve the arrival of minimum living income, and again we are told no. So, we don't understand. Is that progressive? Is that helping social exclusion? If the minimum living income is not coming, for example, stop looking at whether it is Citizens or which party makes the proposals and give a social response to those needs, please. [[Applauds]] We talk about what should be the way out of situations of social exclusion and situations of poverty: employment, and from Citizens we design a whole itinerary of social inclusion in reference to this norm. No, maybe it's too strict, and it's not accepted either. We also speak and speak of the norm itself of a parasocial seal for companies. From Citizens we make a proposal and go further, because we believe in the insertion of labor as a solution to severe poverty, and we say that there are reserve quotas, that there are bonuses for the hiring of recipients of minimum living income. Well, I want to make it clear that all this has been said no. But we, as we are committed to defending the fundamental rights of the most disadvantaged, have said yes. Therefore, please stop looking at who makes the proposals and improve the social response to people in severe poverty. We have also made proposals on other very relevant issues. You have spoken, Minister, about ending the policy of abandonment and you have referred to dependency and disability. Don't people with ALS deserve service at home? Don't people with ALS deserve special protection? It is a cruel, unfortunate disease, but families suffering from these kinds of diseases are being condemned to mortgage their homes to bear the costs. We made a proposal from Citizens that has been vetoed, it was 0.02% of our budget. Don't you deserve an answer? Is that fair, is that building a welfare state with a big social muscle? As long as you don't show me otherwise, I have to tell you that it leaves much to be desired. [[Applauds]] Similarly, we have put forward a number of proposals concerning the homeless, being very aware that they are one of the most difficult groups for inclusion in society, and we have been told that they are not. We have also wanted to see bonuses for contracts for the training and learning of persons with disabilities, and we have been told no. We also wanted to extend the unemployment benefit to all those who had lost their jobs during the pandemic and were unable to recover it, but we have been told no. We have also been told that no deduction for the hiring of domestic service in order to encourage this sector, which, as you know, is very feminized and very precarious, but we have also been told that no, as they do not want to take into account the most vulnerable self-employed, such as the self-employed, for whom we have also applied for a reduced fee. What I want to say with all this is that I would like not to leave anyone behind to have a real translation of the policies that are being developed, with an involvement of the Government that was far beyond who presented the proposals, because I am tired of good proposals being made but only because it is from a certain political group that we cannot have a high-level view. To have that height of sight they'll always have Citizens next door, because we've proven it...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u150	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u151	The corporal. ... We have demonstrated this in each of our defences, and what I hope is that this will change within the Government itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. We are in the section of the budget relating to the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, and in this area I wanted first to make a general reflection on the budget and then another more concrete one on some issue. As regards the most general, as we announced yesterday, the Democratic Party, PeCAT has reached an agreement within the framework of these budgets on a very fundamental issue for us, and it is that the European funds are opened to all those entities that provide public services in the social and health field. To understand that these entities must also have the right to enjoy these European funds when making investments in their properties is to us a pride in the extent to which it opens the door to another very important concept, which is that of public-private collaboration. We often entrust everything to the public sector, although many of these public services are provided precisely by entities such as foundations, associations and non-profit entities, which form part of this large network that helps to consolidate these social rights, which helps to consolidate or provide these services in the field of poverty, in general, in the health or social sphere. Therefore, recognizing this issue was a key issue in these budgets. Nor will we be tired of making a flag on this issue, which is the need for public-private collaboration, because service is ultimately guaranteed, beyond who provides it. Therefore, that this public-private partnership can also have access to European funds is an essential requirement, which makes us in favour of these budgets. I am addressing this issue on social rights and all these policies. It is often accused the PEcCAT, the Democratic Party, that we are only dealing with economic issues, with issues of generating wealth and lowering taxes. It is true that these issues occupy a very important part of our agenda and we have always said this: we totally believe that the only way to distribute wealth is by generating wealth. Therefore, the best subsidy there is, without any doubt, is that people can have work, combat the current levels of unemployment. Therefore, this is the scenario that we prioritize, that of lowering taxes and that of generating occupation and opportunities, an elementary framework in which to place people but also - that is why I wanted to make this intervention - must help all these entities that carry out this support. I am particularly pleased that in the amendments negotiated there is support for the Pere Tarrés Foundation, which does an incredible job in the field of children and education; the Miquel Valls Foundation, for multiple sclerosis; the AFA Sports Union, in the field of disability; the Bonanit Foundation, in the field of the homeless, or the institutional campaign in the field of fibromyalgia. That is to say, of course, we are dealing with all those economic issues that generate wealth and opportunities, because only by generating wealth can we distribute that wealth fairly in society and generate social cohesion, but we do not forget at any time - and it has also been key to these budgets - to give coverage, to give help to this whole third sector, to all these entities that act in the field of childhood, disability, the elderly and the most disadvantaged people. Therefore, in this context on the general content and the concrete content of these budgets is where we wanted to make our contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs García Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not up to Yolanda Díaz, Monica Oltra or Ada Colau, because if that were the case, you would not even reach the lions. [[Applauds]] The project that you represent is that of the distribution of misery, the one that makes smoke curtains, that of the policy of burnt land that leaves no one standing, the one that wants to subject the Spaniards and strip them of their freedom in exchange for subsidies that promise, that they do not arrive and that they pay badly and late. That is your country project but that is not the worst, because you are executing it with the support of Mr Sánchez, who has decided that for him to go well, he has to go badly to all the Spaniards. And for the president to do well, today they present communist social budgets, which, with their greed and inefficiency, will bring us more ruin, more despair and more precariousness. Do you want to talk about older people? Well, let's talk, because you promised that 60,000 people would come out of the dependency list and only 21,000, one-third have come out. You say that the budget is growing, but you have executed nothing more than a third of the agreed minimum level, Your Honor; a third of a minister, an increasingly dwindling minister. They say that no to the People's Party's Major Plan, not to 800 million to end the waiting list, for advanced teleassistance and also veto the People's Party's amendment to bring VAT down to 4%. You here skate, and look at that skate, but the blow will already be given to you in the ballot box. Let's talk about families, because you generate poverty, you generate misery. They came to storm the sky, came to defend the people, and what they came to conquer their sky and to hire and place their people. Meanwhile, in Spain there are four million people who want to work and can't. Are we getting stronger, Minister? Because strong are only those who kick cops who put in the Ministry of Equality. Those do come out strong, because the sticks give many, but to the water, none. [[Applauds]] Lady still minister, from the hammock you work well, right?, and fresh you work phenomenal. Meanwhile, in Spain we are in the third worst place in child poverty. You applaud, but I don't know what you applaud if in Spain there are two and a half million people excluded than three years ago, or two million people in severe poverty than three years ago. Minister, when are you going out of the hammock, when are you going to stop being fresh? Because these people are still in the queues of hunger. You, with this conspiracyal, atavistic communism that Podemos represents, think that with propaganda and tweets they feed. Minister, you have the State Official Gazette, but in the hammock the State Official Gazette must give a lot of laziness and prefer Twitter. Madam Minister, I have bad news for you: there is an alternative and the alternative is Pablo Casado, who has presented a family plan with 40 measures and with a budget of 1.5 million for families, for conciliation, for co-responsibility and for maternity. You reject it, but it will be the Spaniards who support it in the ballot box. It's over. You shouldn't be here today, but Sanchez allows you, as he allows you to be in the political arms of ETA, by agreeing budgets with Bildu and leaving the Spaniards in the stand. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u156	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u157	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u158	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Belarra, I have thoroughly analysed the section that brings me here today and the blue series of these budgets and I am very clear that you do not bet on the Sustainable Development Goals, however much you carry them in the flap. They are ready to change their sustainability in the Government for a sustainable future for all Spaniards; it is unsustainable that they use the 2030 Agenda for their political ends. Of the 22 million euros of the Secretariat of State, one and a half million for staff, two million for publicity, one and a half million for studies and technical work and almost 17 million for current transfers. You look more like a management than a government. Mrs. Belarus, do you take them into account in the rest of the ministries or are you simply giving subsidies and squandering? And speaking of waste, it is untenable that the Secretary of State present here, who must devote himself to promoting the SDGs, should devote himself every day to being in commissions and presentations in this House. I don't think Mr. Santiago aspires to be a kind of St. Theresa in Marxist version, but either he has the gift of bilocation or he doesn't set foot in his ministry office. [[Applauds]] How long are you going to continue to spend more than 100,000 euros on the salary of a secretary of state who wants to be only a deputy, minister? The report that they make of the blue series on the alignment of public accounts with the SDGs classifies them in their environmental, social, economic and institutional dimension. On the environmental side, you talk a lot about SDG 7 over-guaranteing access to affordable, safe and sustainable energy for all, but I have to tell you that you continue to show your inability to contain the price of light in these budgets, with which you intend to transfer economic effort to consumers and businesses, while the government continues to make no budgetary effort at all. Since you approached the rise in the price of light talking about potatoes, leeks and avocados, the only thing that has happened is that tax collection has increased as a result of increased energy costs. On the social front, I think my partner Alicia García has told you enough, but I'm just asking you for a favor, don't tell us about your failed social shield when Caritas says that only 18% of the applicants in severe poverty are earning the minimum living income. Let's be clear, you prefer to put the shield of convicts as your partner Isa Serra to place them in your high-ranking megastructure, don't you, Mrs. Montero? On the economic side, you don't know where to start because you only talk about spending and more spending, but with very few results. The conclusion is simple: from this pandemic, as much as you say we come out stronger, we come out with less purchasing power, with more taxes, with more unemployment, with more debt, with the greatest youth unemployment in Europe, with fewer businesses and with more poverty. Its only recipe is to repeal a work reform that has worked. Finally, at the level of institutional strengthening, in the blue series of these budgets to which I have referred, they talk about their high contribution to the policies of justice, defence and citizen security. But how can one of the ministers who has further degraded democracy in our country, attacking the judges and accusing them of prevarication, speak of this? You have compelled the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary to correct it by statements in which you accused the highest court in our country of an offence. The untenable thing is that you are defending these budgets here today. After this lame show, or I should have quit, or Mr. Sanchez should have stopped. But if Mr Sánchez doesn't do it, don't worry, the Spanish will do it with their vote sooner rather than later. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u160	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Saavedra Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u161	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Before I begin with my intervention, insults, insults and lies; this is the contribution of the People's Party. It's a shame to hear them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, love in politics is demonstrated in budgets, and the General Budgets of the State are the most important public policy of a legislature, sets out the real priorities of a government. The central axes of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 consolidate the paradigm shift that began in the previous budgets, which put an end to the Austericide era of the People's Party of Privatization of Services, and limitation of public spending and social protection. At this stage of the legislature we have to address the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and people's lives and to rebuild a state of well-being that has never been consolidated in our country, but which was further undermined by the cuts of the People's Party in the last decade, which have fired levels of inequality and poverty at horrific limits. Well, to this reconstruction these budgets are largely oriented, the most expansive in social spending in our history: 6 out of 10 euros are allocated to social investment. They express the commitment of this Government, and in particular of this Ministry, to protection and rights, social cohesion, the fight against inequality, the strengthening of public services as central axes of the exit from the crisis and the reconstruction of the country. These budgets ensure, as has been said, better funding for the system of autonomy and attention to dependency. The People's Party virtually dismantled attention to dependence, causing great suffering in vulnerable people and in many women caregivers of dependent people. He eliminated resources, left the state's contribution to a minimum and forced autonomous communities such as mine, the Valencian, to borrow to maintain essential benefits for many people to have a decent life. Now, much of the budget effort of this ministry, with a historic investment, is geared towards rebuilding the system by enhancing personal autonomy, following a plan of dependency shock, approved in January at the Territorial Council, which seeks to eliminate waiting lists, improve the working conditions of women workers and the quality of professional services and improve services and services. The contribution of the General Administration of the State to the financing of the system of dependency remains insufficient, but investment is doubled in 2022. These budgets finance a long-term care plan and the national deinstitutionalization strategy, so that all people in a situation of dependency or functional diversity can live as long as they want in their homes or settings, with the support they need, such as advanced teleassistance, home help or personal assistance, to achieve maximum autonomy. Therefore, it also drives the essential change of residential model. The current one has made clear its limits and we must move towards a more humane model, more like the home, focused on the person, with quality jobs and with greater and better resources. This is a fundamental challenge for the country and we are in it. These budgets improve the financing of social services, reverse the cuts perpetrated by the People's Party in the previous decade, at a very harsh time of social emergency that caused much suffering, the overload of social services professionals, social workers, essential professionals to whom, from here on, today, we want to show our appreciation. Transfers to the Autonomous Communities to strengthen and modernize these essential services are increasing exponentially. These budgets are committed to child policies with the support of the Autonomous Communities and the care of migrant children with the implementation of the Child Protection against Violence Act, with 25 million to deploy the measures provided for in this fundamental law. The increase in programmes to combat child poverty is a priority, since since the 2008 crisis and the disastrous management of the People's Party and its neoliberal policies, the numbers of child poverty have been fired and are intractable. These budgets also set out a gypsy development plan and an anti-poverty plan in the Canary Islands. With regard to the 2030 Agenda, efforts focus on coordinating functions for a reconstruction of the country aligned with the principles of the 2030 Agenda, which is an agenda of sustainability and human rights, which also does not like the far right. Support for civil society organizations, the social economy, universities and local authorities, which play a key role in this area, is maintained. In short, they are budgets geared towards fair reconstruction based on strengthening the public, generating quality employment and social protection. In order to make further progress in this direction, we need, as the Minister has said, a fair taxation - which pays more who has the most, as the Constitution says - redistribution of wealth, that wages are worthy and guarantee sufficient contributions and that there are no poor workers. In this sense, the struggle of workers such as those of metal, in Cadiz, so severely repressed, those of the company Pilkington, in Sagunto, or the eight thousand workers of the cleaning sector of Castelló, who are on an indefinite strike, are struggles for a future for their families, for their regions and for all the people of this country. All our solidarity. [[Applauds]] These budgets - and it has ended - respond to the same intention of these struggles because they advance in equity, justice and the goal of achieving a life worthy of all people in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u163	Thank you, President. There is one thing that can never be forgotten when it comes to preparing general budgets: the nation. You've forgotten the nation, ladies and gentlemen. They've forgotten Spain. [[Applauds]] It is precisely section 29, Social Rights and Agenda 2030, which explains how the budget aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals, that is, how budgets align with the business interests of the globalist elites, rather than with the needs of the Spanish. They present budgets that allocate the entire expenditure line to a planned destruction of our sovereignty, our economy and the moral and political social order; an agenda that shows us a happy, green, solid, inclusive, resilient and sustainable world, that promises the end of poverty or zero hunger, but that will only serve to ensure that by 2030 the only people who can fly, eat meat, have property or be free are those globalist elites you represent; an agenda that promotes division, hatred, fear, and takes advantage of the pain of the victims, the real victims and the victims who are invented; an agenda that destroys everything that gives man an identity and a destiny: the nation, the family and the transcendence. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] These are the budgets aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals. [[Show a document]] Do all these amounts really go directly to zero hunger or to the end of poverty? How much does what is left on the way to buy wills? Since you have aligned all these items with the Sustainable Development Goals, I have put online, for example, all the amounts that required studies and work from all sections, and it gives me 106451 000 euros. If we divide that amount between average food expenditure per person per year, it turns out that 314,161 people could get out of the queues of hunger if instead of their friends, the officials did the studies and jobs. [[Applauds]] Do you see that zero hunger is not so high for you? A government that truly pursued the end of poverty would not spend 23 million euros on setting up a macro-squeeze for its communist partners to monitor compliance with the globalist dictatorship. Budgets aligned with affordable energy do not match the fact that there are more than five million households that cannot afford to pay for electricity; budgets aligned with the reduction of inequalities do not match the fact that this year 427,000 people are receiving income below the average of last year's annual wage, unless, of course, I am right, and that is indeed the idea: to equal ourselves to poverty and dependence. So, yes, then that goal is being met by you. [[Applauds]] Much of this budget is going to generate more fear, more tension, more division; it is going to subsidize and control the media, to monitor, censor and demonize everyone we think is different, to advance the LGBTI agenda, to indoctrinate our children, to promote mass illegal immigration and to implement a climate change law that will end with what little we have left. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not holding up. They aligned the General Budgets of the State last year to the agenda and it didn't work. You can falsify everything you want the data, but go to the street and ask. Do they not really realize that these budgets do not respond to the needs of Spanish society? How many sectors have stood up to protest? How many have called a strike in the next few days? You have in front of everyone who doesn't let themselves be bought. Farmers and farmers have stood up, Spain has emptied, because they have emptied it between you and yourselves, and hunters, health workers, transporters, the State Security Forces and Corpses, prison officials, the metallurgical sector, lotteries, hairdressers, pensioners have stood up. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Is there any free sector that hasn't complained yet? I don't think so. [[Applauds]] You can continue to insist on aligning everything with the globalist ideology; an ideology that does not work, an ideology that is poison to kill our essence, root, culture, inherited customs and traditions, a poison to become homogeneous, poor, dependent and soulless beings. By the way, a poison bought by you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, in 2015. There are no right or left, they are two sides of the same coin. Do not continue to pretend to be opposition when it was you who committed to globalism and we all know that when a party commits to globalism it has no choice but to obey. [[Applauds]] You and you have the same owner and still some of you come up here to say that another way of governing is possible. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible, because when one is dependent on the globalist elites, he has no more way of governing than the one he is commanded to rule. Globalism is not fought with more globalism; globalism is fought with homeland. Here there is no more opposition than that of VOX because VOX has no more owner than Spain. Therefore, 'VOX only remains' is not a phrase made nor a campaign slogan; it is simply the truth. In the face of hatred for everything that identifies us and roots us, love of the homeland. Faced with fear, courage. Faced with these globalist budgets, there is a patriotic alternative called Agenda Spain, an agenda designed to improve the lives of the Spaniards present and those who are to come. [[shows a document]] Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Nevado. Mrs Guerra López has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u165	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I'll give you some advice. Before trying to oppose the Government of Spain, clarify between you, whether Married or Ayuso, or Ayuso or Married. Maybe that's how they look like the main opposition party and not a Pimpinela reminder. [[Applauds]] While you are entertained by your disputes or going to Francoist Masses, the Government of Spain works from sun to sun. [[Mr. Lorite Lorite utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u166	Mr. Lorite, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u167	Sun to sun. Let's see if they can get Mr. Married to understand. And it works from sun to sun so that the recovery of this country is inclusive and equitable for all, especially for the most vulnerable. It works from sun to sun to make the structural changes our country needs to leave no one behind. Mrs Giménez, a leave no one behind who is not a press headline; he is charged with ideology, values, meaning, because not leaving no one behind puts at the centre the value of the public, the value of the collective and it is the public, it is the State that has supported us during this pandemic and that, as this Government demonstrates with these budgets, will continue to do so in the coming years. These are the budgets with the largest social investment in our country's history, more than 55% of total national spending goes to social policies, six out of ten euros. Mr Alonso, it has become clear to us: you call it wasteful; we call it social justice. [[Applauds]] First, the unit will receive the highest funding in our country's history. We increased, as the minister said, with 548 million euros, the departure of attention to dependence, we ended the waiting list that we inherited from you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and we recovered the social security contributions of the non-professional caregivers, those to whom you took it, because that is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party did. But not only that, this government will allocate €725 million to review the long-term care model. There are two presidents in the history of our country who have bet on dependence, who have bet on the right to be cared for: one was José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and another Pedro Sánchez; the two who have also bet on youth, on youth emancipation. These are budgets for the young people of this country, for them to form, for them to work, for them to investigate, for them to emancipate, but for them to emancipate here in Spain, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, for us that is the nation, for them to emancipate here in Spain, not as they had to do at the time when Mariano Rajoy ruled. They call it external mobility, remember? [[Applauds]] We continue to bet on universal accessibility, both physically and cognitively, with €58.8 million. And great news: we extend the provision of care to minors affected by cancer or other serious illness from the 18th to the 23rd years. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are filled with contained emotion. We increase the thermal social bonus by 44%; we prioritise the development plan of the Gypsy people; we continue to fight against sinogarism, and we incorporate work integration routes into the European aid fund for the disadvantaged. By the way, I would like to thank, on behalf of my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the thousands of volunteers and volunteers who this weekend, in the different municipalities of our country, participated in the great gathering for food banks. To all of them, from the heart, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Finally, we have increased resources against child poverty by 59%, benefiting more than 1,140,000 children. I would like to remind you that only five months ago we were defending the Law on the Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, and today we are here, only five months later, defending and approving a budget line that prioritizes some of the most important actions, such as the coordinator or welfare coordinator in educational institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I would like to address you, who voted in favour of this law, who made it aware that between 2019 and 2020 11,838 complaints were filed about crimes against the sexual freedom of children, aware that most of these crimes occur within the family and educational institutions and aware that they only dare to report one in five children. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I will tell you loud and clear: it is regrettable that you tolerate Mrs Ayuso saying that the welfare coordinators are political commissioners, regrettable and shameful! [[Applauds]] But Mrs Ayuso's statement did not end there; I continue - I quote textually -: Create - the Government creates - institutions in parallel with the legality that feed on public money and victimism. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the only people here who create boxes B, sign M. Rajoy and use the State Security Forces and Corps to make private vigilantes are you. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Garcia, ruinous, nothing. Here you are the ones who get rich while impoverishing the popular classes. I remind you that, for all these reasons, you are not in the Government of Spain, and I also say to you, as we have seen today in Salamanca, that it is for the good of the Spanish and Spanish for a long time. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, now go and tell the boys and girls who are victims of violence that, on the part of Mrs. Ayuso, what they are doing is victimism. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put aside party interests. [[Rumors]] Let us put ourselves on the skin of the most disadvantaged people, those who do not reach the end of the month despite their work, those who do not work, those who pass cold, those who fight to defend their home or those who have already lost it, on the skin of the young people who want to emancipate themselves, those who suffer and those who suffer violence in silence. Let us put ourselves on their feet and vote in favour of the most social budgets in our country's history.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u168	Mrs. War, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u169	I'm done, President. Let us vote in favour of these budgets because we will vote in favour of the public, in favour of the common good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u170	Thank you, Mrs. War.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next section debate, I shall announce to you the outcome of the votes. Having completed the vote on the amendments to section 27, including, in connection with the Commission's opinion on the draft State General Budgets Act for 2022, I would like to announce that the following amendments have been adopted: to section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, amendment 174, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Groups, Mr Guitarte Gimeno; Republican and Plural, Mr Bel Accensi and Mrs Noguerasi Camero, and compromise amendments 18 to 41. In Section 20, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Transactional Amendments Nos 42 and 43. Section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, transactional amendment number 44. In section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, transactional amendments Nos. 45-52. In section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport, transactional amendments Nos. 53 to 65. In section 26, Ministry of Health, transactional amendment number 66. The result of all the votes for these amendments will be published on the House's website in accordance with the usual procedure and will be appended to the minutes of this sitting. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2022. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000070]] Section 30, Ministry of Equality
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u172	We now turn to the debate in section 30, Ministry of Equality. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u173	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow there will be a vote that will take a step further in the adoption of these General State Budgets for the coming year 2022 and I would therefore like to start with a thank you to that parliamentary majority that, from diversity, respect, negotiation and dialogue, is able to build agreements that allow us to strengthen a majority of progressive and plurinational state leadership that gives stability to our country, an indispensable condition in order to be able to face the great challenges and debates that Spain has ahead and, moreover, to do so in a sense of democratic deepening and not of involution and darkness. With humility, because the challenges ahead are giant, these are budgets for the exit of this health emergency with a clear desire for transformation. It is not just about overcoming one of the most painful stages our country has experienced in recent decades, but about getting out of this crisis by facing the crises and structural problems that already existed and that the pandemic has sharpened and made more visible. Of all the lessons learned in these years, the most important, in my opinion, is that which the feminist movement and the popular movements have been pointing out for decades, which is the common thing, the public thing, the fundamental pillar of democracy, which is what sustains us when the country stops completely and they come wrong, but it is also the best indicator, in times of prosperity, of justice and equality in a society. Whatever your postal code, whatever family you are born in or the money you have in your current account, you can have access to the best health care, the best education, all comprehensive care services for women who are victims of male violence. In this regard, the budgets will also allow us to make progress in consolidating a new generation of feminist rights, rights that must effectively reach all women. We are faced with feminist budgets. Investment in public policies for equality continues to have a wide margin of growth, and we are aware of this, but it is no less true that these General State Budgets have a historical departure in feminist public policies: EUR 525 million, a departure that I am now going to detail. 43% of this budget for 2022 will be devoted to equal opportunities programmes; thus, in 2022, weconsolidated the Correspondent Plan, 200 million euros earmarked for the co-responsibility of the State with the tasks of care: cleaning, making food, caring for children or our elderly, tasks which have always been essential for the maintenance of the economy and of life, but which have always remained invisible in the eyes of society and public policies, tasks carried out primarily by women at the expense of the development of their own vital and professional projects. Thus, 200 million for the reconciliation of the working and personal lives of families, especially of mothers and, among them, those who raise alone, those who always assume on their shoulders double and triple days, those who do not have time for themselves, to rest, to protect their health or to go to the cinema or theatre. The Co-responsible Plan must be deployed by the Autonomous Communities throughout the year 2022, and it can use not only the item entered in these budgets but also, as you know, the remaining items for the financial year 2021. Policies such as the Correspondent Plan, together with the impulse of children's schools from 0 to 3 years old, are a seed with still modest investment that we must consolidate, that we must shield to grow, that the State will finally be co-responsible with care, that reconciliation will not be a career of obstacles, that the reconciliation of work, personal and family life will not be a nightmare but a reality for all women. On the other hand, parties to fight against LGBTIphobia, for LGBTI rights and for equal treatment and non-discrimination also grow by more than 130%, because when we say that we are not going to leave anyone behind we are also referring to LGBTI people, racialized people, that they can live without discrimination, without racism, free from violence and in total freedom. They are aware of the commitment of this Government, the Ministry of Equality, to guarantee their rights and the public policies necessary to expand the opportunities for happiness for all people to live a life worthy of being lived. For its part, the Women's Institute will have a specific budget as an autonomous agency of 23.6 million euros, 16% more than in 2021. Since we arrived at the Ministry of Equality, we knew that we had a debt to them and especially to the public workers of the Institute of Women and that as a government we had to return to the institute the weight and entity it deserves after decades by widening equality between women and men, with public officials who have been left behind in this important task. We will therefore reverse with these budgets the path of cuts that this historic institution has suffered so much for all the women of our country. I shall now go on to detail, ladies and gentlemen, the budget allocated by the Ministry of Equality to the eradication of violence against women, an effort for which we allocate more than half of our budget. They will allow me to stop specifically at them, reminding them that tomorrow is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and that this commemoration also coincides with the 10th anniversary of the Istanbul Convention, which Spain ratified, as you know, in 2014. The fight against sexist violence is a matter of State and cannot be tackled without increasing and solid public funding. For this reason, we allocate EUR 284 million to the prevention, early detection, comprehensive care and reparation of all the violence women suffer as a result of being women. It is a historic budget, ladies and gentlemen, which represents an increase of almost 20% over 2021, thus placing us above what was agreed in the State Pact against Gender Violence. There are 284 million euros, including the funds from the State Pact against Gender Violence for the financing of projects that will enable the autonomous communities and municipalities to deploy, as I said to them, all measures to prevent and raise awareness of early detection, specialized comprehensive care and reparation for women victims of machista violence and to expand them to the institutions of all women, so that they know that institutions are safe places and, above all, that they are not alone. This item also includes the Plan Spain Protects you from Machist Violence, within the framework of the funds for recovery, transformation and resilience. These funds will make it possible to deploy one of the greatest advances that includes the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, the Law 'only is yes', as are the crisis centres of full 24-hour care for victims of sexual violence in all the provinces of our country, in addition to the modernization of the 016 Atenpro service and the ones known as bracelets. The fight against macho violence is a priority for this Government. We are demonstrating this with the policies that we have been implementing in these nearly twenty-three months of legislature, with advances such as the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, the Children's Law, which, as you know, includes the prohibition of false parental alienation syndrome and the suspension of the regime of visits for abusers in the face of the slightest sign of violence because, as you know, an abuser can never be a good father, the Contingency Plan against all forms of machist violence that we activate during the pandemic, the extension of care services to 016 for all victims of machist violence and the improvement of the working conditions of service workers, the construction of these 24-hour care centres for victims of sexual violence in coordination with the autonomous communities, the updating of protocols and actions against degenerous violence in collaboration with the different institutions and entities of the State Covenant against Gender Violence, Autonomous Communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and more than one hundred government goes to these feminist entities and organizations, to which they are taking advantage in the actual realization of their work. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Also initiatives such as the Violet Point, an instrument to involve society as a whole in the fight against macho violence and to let every citizen know how to reach out to a woman who is the victim of violence, not to feel alone and to have access to all the rights that the State has an obligation to guarantee. In the coming months, we will continue to take important steps, including the reparation of a historic debt with thousands of women and feminist movement, as well as the fulfilment of our international human rights commitments. As of 1 January 2022, the Government Delegation against Gender Violence will expand, as you know, detailed and sequenced statistical data on feminicides and all forms of violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest political consensus that I believe exists right now in this House is that we will not be able to rest until all violence against women is eradicated, until it is always in time for all women. It is precisely for this reason that I believe it is also of absolute consensus that public policies against sexist violence save lives, as shown by the increase in reports of sexual assault, the increased visibility of such violence, or the fact that this November our country accounts for the lowest number of women murdered at the hands of its partners or ex-partners in the entire historical series. We want to be alive, and to do so we need to continue to make public policies and economic investments to eradicate violence against women, from the absolutest institutional unity and consensus, without fissure. As I said to you, tomorrow we commemorate the International Day for the Eradication of Violence against Women and I would like to conclude by pointing out the opportunity that I believe we have all the political forces in this House - at least all the political forces that in 2017 we make clear that macho violence and the fight against violence against women is a matter of state - to make clear to the whole of society, in a single, uncracked way, that the fight against macho violence remains a matter of state and that no woman is alone, that we are together in this. We have the opportunity to update the opinion of the State Pact against Gender Violence and to do so, as I said, with at least the same consensus as in 2017. We are obliged by women killed, by their sons and daughters, by their families, for whom they are no longer, for whom they continue to fight, for whom they will come to make the Covenant of State permanent and to shield its financing, developing all the progress in public policies and all the legislative changes necessary to be more and more effective as administrations, as institutions, as a State, in the fight against gender-based violence. I would like to thank all the political groups for their willingness and ability to put forward the common goal of combating violence against women, sexist violence, in the face of all the political differences that may distance us, in order to build an agreement that will be one of the most important in this legislature. I would also like to acknowledge the important work done by the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the United Nations to be able to agree on this proposal for updating the opinion and to be able to coordinate this political negotiation by all the political groups in this House. [[Applauds]] Fighting together for feminist advances has allowed us to be a pioneer country in guaranteeing women's rights. Today we continue to walk together along this path that has been so hard to open, for which they have come before us, turning the strength of millions of women into a new generation of feminist rights with historic investments in our country for policies that guarantee women's rights. Together, in front of all the macho violence. Together, for all rights, for all women. We want free and free lives of Machist violence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u175	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also begin by mentioning that tomorrow is 25 November and leaving a message of regret for the 1118 victims of male violence. In Citizens we will continue to work day by day and without stopping for a great work of prevention and protection to combat this social scourge. For the Citizens Parliamentary Group, public policies on equality are one of the biggest levers of change that public authorities can explore to build a more egalitarian society in social, dynamic and economic terms. Despite the fact that 51% of the population in Spain are women, we suffer discrimination in both the public and private spheres that prevent us from fully exercising our public rights and freedoms recognized in the Constitution. Furthermore, we are aware that inequality continues to affect persons with disabilities, gypsies, migrants, LGBTI and transgender, among other vulnerable groups. We are certainly moving forward as a society, but we have a great deal to do, and Citizens, as a liberal project, are committed to equality, either in the face of the nationalist roller or in the face of the scourge of machinism, the LGTBphobia, xenophobia, aporophobia or any other form of intolerance. Despite the evidence in this area, there are political formations which unfortunately deny such a gap and which, moreover, consider that the policies in this area are irrelevant and that they involve unnecessary spending of money. On the contrary, the Spanish liberals consider that spending in this area is necessary in order to create a more prosperous society in economic terms and, in addition, a more just society in the social sphere. We believe in equality without nuances, as we have shown in this House and in the respective committees in each of our defences. We have supported all disability reforms, those advances in LGBT, those advances for transgender people, for ethnic minorities, for people in situations of poverty. We therefore believe that equality is a fundamental part of our country's project to have free citizens and a more united and just society. Once again, however, the Government vetoed proposals that represented progress for equality; we had already passed the law we introduced in the Senate to implement the State Pact against Gender Violence, which was vetoed by the Socialist Party itself, which did not support it. We also believe, as the Minister has rightly said, that our priority must be to implement the State Pact against Gender Violence. But I regret that it is sometimes the Government of the veto and the decree; I do not know how embarrassing it is for them to block good initiatives that represent an advance in equality and to fight against macho violence. Because I am going to give some examples of those Citizens' amendments that have been vetoed on us, and again I say that I do not understand that they are vetoed from a progressive point of view and of defending gender equality. For example, is it not progressive to extend paternity and maternity leave twenty-four weeks after the birth or adoption of a minor? These are our amendments 415 and 416. Moreover, you have announced this measure by drum and platter and, when we ask you to put it in motion, the sale. But it is not a question of whether it is progressive or not refusing to fulfill what they promised when they are reminded; it is a question of whether they have a word and whether they are honest with what they have promised the citizens. On the other hand, do you think it progressive to veto the action plan for the birth drive, our amendment 324? And the extension of the Menuda Conciliation Plan also for the self-employed? Or is it that autonomous persons do not have the right to conciliation and co-responsibility? And together with that the deduction we have proposed for the recruitment of domestic service with discharge in Social Security, and also knowing that it is a sector, as I said earlier, very feminized. I understand what your thinking is, and it is that you do not do things thinking about whether the proposals are more progressive or not, but that only those ideas or issues that you do not defend, if they come from others, even if they are good, veto them. Therefore, I do believe that this is an issue that needs to be corrected, but it needs to be corrected because when we talk about gender equality, about the advancement of women in this country, I have often said that political colours must be left aside, what must not be left behind is the general interest, the progress on equality, and for that they must change their own lordships of the Government, because they have to learn what proposals that are good in advance on equality must be supported, and it gives the same to whom they come from. We must have that interest in this case for the most disadvantaged women and groups in this country. Along with this, we also support a proposal that talked about the empowerment of women in the rural world through job placement and digitisation, which has not been accepted, and also about the children and daughters of women deprived of their liberty, who have not wanted to know anything about this. On the other hand, we are talking about equal treatment and non-discrimination. I know that the budgets address this situation of equal treatment and non-discrimination. I say again in this rostrum that equal treatment and non-discrimination requires services, support and assistance to victims, but needs the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act. All I hope is that the two of you, PSOE and Podemos, will agree to take this law forward, so that in this House it will be brought to the table, because it will not be more interesting who takes the publicity of being the advocate of the rule than we have a rule. I remind you that we are following up on the recommendations that have been made to us. I, as an expert in the field of anti-discrimination law, refuse to receive them and to be part of this House. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I do beg you to go ahead with this rule and to do so with guarantees, that it is not a rule of proclamation that seems only to address article 14 of the Constitution and remain there, a good sanctioning regime and guarantees of an independent body. Therefore, with what end; I end with support for work, regretting that on many occasions the Government's vetoes do not allow us to make adequate progress in the area of equality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today you come here to display a budget that grows over the previous one, but one wonders: does this budget serve to improve the lives of women in Spain? Minister, a year ago I asked you if the Spanish women were better since you were in the ministry. You told me about the historical increase in budgets. Let us see, then, if it has served anything, that is, whether the lives of the Spanish women have improved something thanks to those accounts or if they were just tales in a role that endures everything. Let's see if your ministry has served anything, if you, as minister, have served anything. Because it will agree with me that if everything you do doesn't reach women, if it doesn't work for you to have more opportunities, all of this is useless. And don't confuse, I'm not saying that equality policies don't work, I'm questioning whether their equality policies do. Let's see, the female unemployment rate is 17.3%, compared to 11.2% of the male unemployment rate. Spain is the second country in the European Union with the most unemployment among women, only surpassed by Greece. Since you are in the government there are 65,000 more stops, 32,000 more since the pandemic began, and 12,640 fewer home jobs. I know it's hard for you to hear, but the highest rate of working women ever reached was with the governments of the People's Party, thanks to a labor reform that you now want to repeal. [[Applauds]] The same applies to the gender gap, which continues to increase, and the wage gap. But their budget is increasing again, as it was last year, because it is true that there is a group of women whose lives have improved substantially: their group of advisers, of course. That is where your budget increases, in wages and in the cost of the structure of high offices and eventuals of your ministry. The former have grown by 32.61 % and the latter by 30.40 %, although we already know that all have exception curricula, especially in convictions and indictments. Regeneration, you said not so long ago. The budget for their partnerships has also increased. They have hired a consultant for 250,000 euros to design a state strategy to combat sexist violence. Mrs Montero, what is needed in the fight against sexist violence, which has also not stopped increasing - 27% more crimes against sexual freedom and 30% more sexual assaults with penetration - is for you to implement once and for all the State Pact against Gender Violence that you did not sign. You're not learning, because you're talking on the phone, but we haven't moved on from this State Pact against Gender Violence. Instead of announcing that feminism passes through and permeates the entire budget, explain why the rest of the ministries are not involved in the budget of that state pact or why no more resources are provided to the units of the UFAM, which have indices that reach 150 women per agent in the case, for example, of Baleares. That is why the People's Party represents the alternative we need for women through its amendments, which you have rejected and should explain here why. These are amendments aimed at the commitment to reconciliation and incentives for the recruitment of women with disabilities, the employment of women in rural areas, and reintegration after a child or older person's leave. These are amendments designed to protect families in their many manifestations or to promote a clear birth rate in a country which must meet the demographic challenge without delay. Why are you against lowering the VAT on diapers, increasing the birth or adoption allowance, deducting large families or extending maternity and paternity leave to single-parent families? Why are they against providing fair access to fertility treatments, as proposed by President Casado, or defending the freedom of parents to choose also education from 0 to 3 years? Why do they vote against our amendments to draw up a comprehensive anti-trafficking law? Does this mean we won't have law this year either? And, of course, Mrs Montero, why do you insist that there is no need for a comprehensive plan for the detection and prevention of child sexual exploitation in protection centres to address this shame already? Do you know that while you are dedicated to pursuing impudent looks, the drama of the underprivileged in Valencia and the Balearic Islands does not cease? Do you know what's impudent? [[Spain Queen: Very well!]] That you look elsewhere while the head of the Baleares Children's Centers has just been awarded an promotion to the President's Councillor. [[Mr. Cabezón Casas: What a truth!- Rumors.-Applause]] Your falling has had effect, what happens is that you always fall up. And after another blank year - a single law in twelve months - you tell us about a feminist budget. Is it not going to affect women's tax cuts, increases in contributions, disaster? Aren't they going to have to pay more for electricity, gas or the shopping basket? My initial question has an easy answer: your policies and ministry do not improve women's lives, your policies and you are indispensible. I do not tell you, but you have even had a demonstration of the feminist movement at the door of your ministry, because you - I told you once - are not feminism. Nor do your companions consider it so, the other policies that have been erected in the new pops of exclusionary left-wing feminism, because you have not even been invited to the photo. But in the People's Party we are not going to fail, we are going to continue to work for real equality policies that put women's real problems at the centre, that give them more opportunities and more independence, because without freedom there is no equality. Because we do not want to give up anything, because we want to be free, because we say no to the Machist tutelaries, we also say no to the tutelaries of their feminism and sectarianism. Thank you so much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of Equality. I repeat the arguments of the amendment to the whole that I presented to the draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2022 that, although it was rejected by the Plenary of Congress early this November, it summarizes the most significant criteria to oppose the public accounts of a blue bank unnecessarily crowded and very expensive of which there are still departments and sections, one of them corresponding to its ministry. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago Mrs Lidia Falcon said that 'the Ministry of Equality is a joke of neighborhood friends going there to play'. So, in the face of such a crushing sentence of a historic and recognized feminist who played the skin, I have listened with greater scepticism to your intervention, Mrs Montero. You bear reproach very badly and even worse when you come from those who dispute the space you have usurped to the detriment and unprotectiveness of women. Criticism is also fatal when there is a massive protest against the Government by trans law, as it happened a few weeks ago. They never accept criticism, neither of themselves nor of others, neither before nor now nor ever. Mrs Montero, in what is already a regular liturgy every time you go to the General Courts, this afternoon you have also put different reservations and cast doubts on the opposition in a crucial matter in which a large part of society is interested in building a consensus to promote political actions in defense of women. Modestly, some of us were part of that consensus when, for example, the 12th Legislature adopted the State Pact against Gender Violence, to which you, on behalf of the United Nations Podemos, came to table an amendment to the whole and in whose final vote your parliamentary group abstained. He then ruled the People's Party, with Mariano Rajoy as president, who also freed Spain from the rescue, created three million jobs and recovered the ruined country that bequeathed Rodríguez Zapatero. By the way, if you aim to achieve the maximum possible support to reconvert and update the pact, do not slip disqualifications to the opposition, unless you want to repeat another exercise of sectarianism and intend to exclude an important part of this House from major state agreements, such as enabling laws to combat gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, for the 2022 financial year, the budget allocation for the Ministry of Equality is growing and rising from 459 million to 525 million, which is going to create a serious problem for its implementation, because you have been surrounded by collaborators who have no experience in management; even some are being recruited for the merits of fighting against the State Security Forces and Bodies, as is the case with the new adviser, Mrs Serra, who is firmly condemned for an attack on authority. [[Applauds]] You have resources that will hardly be implemented for the promotion of job opportunities, the fight against female unemployment or for the promotion of women in all areas; women and binary and non-binary people, penultimate neologisms progress to continue with the demolition of language. It will be no surprise that this budget increase will increase the number of courses, workshops, conventions, congresses and other propagandistic councils in which new gender roles are discussed about the human being, even if the political priority for many Spaniards is not news reports, purple, evil or pink monstrosaries, or consultants contracted to the co-religionaries or subsidized chiringuitos, but rather to avoid falling into the growing lines of impoverishment to which the Government is calling us with its nefarious socio-economic policy. In this sense, it is hypocritical, Madam Minister, that in the present tragic context of the poverty and impoverishment of the purchasing stock the two parties that are part of the Government have abstained from voting on a non-law proposal that promoted, at the request of the Republican Parliamentary Group, measures to lower the price of products related to female intimate hygiene. It is also injuring, Mrs Montero, that your ministry forms part of the wall of shame with which the left is covering up the tearing cases of minors under public guardianship who have been victims of prostitution. A black spot that was detected in Baleares and extends to the Valencian Community and the Canary Islands, as Mrs Prohens rightly reminded her. Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out at the beginning, the Ministry of Equality is perfectly indispensible, as are other ministries that Pedro Sánchez created to satisfy the coalition partners, even if that means having and maintaining a multitude of blue banks with their corresponding megastructures and extraordinary expenses that do not respond to social needs or national priorities. What Spain needs least from 2021 is pamphlet politics. What Spain is most precise today is economic stability and this draft budget law has been drawn up with an uncertain revenue forecast, as has been underlined by national and international bodies and entities of absolute solvency, which will mean a negative balance that will affect a greater indebtedness that will also fall on future generations. The ministry is another spending machine that disguises its unproductiveness in social discord. Faced with the false gender perspective that you prescribe and disqualify the feminists themselves, some of us defend perspectives in favour of reconciliation and of the family, whose protection is an emergency for a Spain that is aging alarmingly, which has its cities and villages empty of children, which sees its demography marred by agitated steps and which urgently needs to provide direct and continuous support at birth. In short, I will also reject with my vote against this section 30 of the Ministry of Equality. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u180	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u181	Good afternoon. I want to begin this intervention by reminding all the women who are no longer there because the macho violence ended their lives, all the women killed since 2003 and those who were killed before the data were collected, all the women who have been killed because of being women, even if it wasn't at the hands of their partner or ex-partner. I would also like to say to women who suffer from macho violence in their home, in their work, in their family or in the street that we are with them, that combating such violence is a democratic duty. And to the young woman who suffered a group sexual assault six years ago by her boyfriend and another male, I would like to say that she is not alone, that CEDAW's general recommendation 35 speaks of the sexist self that exists today in justice and that this Government is committed - because the State Pact against Gender Violence calls for this - to defending the women and girls of this country and to recognizing as a right that we live lives free of sexist violence. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this should be said every day, but tomorrow is 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It was that day by the impulse of the Latin American feminist movement that, in 1981, wanted to remember the three Mirabal sisters murdered in 1960. Feminist, internationalist and democratic memory. I am talking about this because we have a government that is consistent with this struggle, which is not a scourge, it is a system. This government allocates 54% of the budget of this ministry, a budget that has increased because they are key ministries for full citizenship of more than half the population, to the fight against machista violence. That State Pact remains one year in force and will have given full effect to the measures with a major effort by this Government to catch up on what was initially a dubious execution, if I may say so, difficult to find between the green and red books of the State General Budgets. We have made a great deal of progress since 2017 until today so that this budget allocation can be consolidated and understood as essential as long as there is sexist violence. It is important to say that we do this together with the deputies, the feminist compañeras of this House, and looked at all the feminist compañeras of this House. I will not tire of appealing to the capacity for consensus, even from our legitimate discrepancies, which has revealed the state pact. To the honourable Members who have preceded me in the use of the word that has explained to us how was that Covenant of State I will tell you that it bears the signature of this Member and other Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos and that that Covenant of State was possible because we signed the opinion, issued a critical vote and we are demonstrating the execution of that critical vote in which we are going beyond. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, you mentioned Mariano Rajoy to me. Do you know what Mariano Rajoy did, the only thing he did with the opinion of the Covenant of State that we had signed by the Members of this House? Take a picture on the way out of the National Court. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Oblanca, that's all Mariano Rajoy did, because we couldn't find the budgets or the calendar. [[Applauds]] Don't be mad at yourself. If it's signed, read the opinion, stop being silly and get to work. The lives and freedom of the women of our country are above arguments, they are above technicalism; they should be above ideologies, but this Member is not naive and I know that, right now, with the correlation of forces in this House, it is not possible. For this reason, I call on all the Democrats, all the feminists, all together, to renew this pact of state, a pact of state from whose debate we do not rise until we have signed the opinion. Let me ask the People's Party bench - also in Rajoy's language - what about the European one? Because when it comes to defending in Europe that gender-based violence is a crime, then there you do abstain, you are not in it. [[Applauds]] Please, let's have a little high-mindedness to defend the women and girls of this country. [[Applauds]] Inequality is the breeding ground for other manifestations of violence, hence the work of the Ministry of Equality and this Government with the Correspondent Plan, which as a seed policy will increase in the next fiscal year. But progress in employment, equal pay and equality plans in companies are also key. Another spokesman for the People's Party said this afternoon that the labor reform of the PP has served. It will have served for the capitalism of friends and for the interests of a few, but dare to tell them that it has served all the workers who are falling apart are poor, to tell all the workers who are sick were fired, to see if it served that labor reform of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It will have served those for whom you always show that you are for those who are in the institutions. [[Applauds]] Inequality also affects the LGBT community, so important is the work that is being done in the General Directorate of Diversity and LGBT Rights, and so it is key that this legislative framework, this reference in defence of human rights, remains an international vanguard throughout the State, and that different territories - and I think about Asturias - already assume this witness by approving, once and for all, the Equality Act, LGBTI and trans. New feminist rights, because it is with feminism how progress is made in social justice, is the democratic compass that makes us not lose ourselves on the road to being a better, more egalitarian society, where we can have lives worthy of being lived. I would like here to thank Minister Montero for her work, because I have no doubt that it is her determination - as well as this Government, but especially hers - to the Machist, Classist and Cavernary attacks, which makes this ministry the compass to achieve the social justice that we so much need. I have been attending this debate for weeks and listening to rhetorics that, to whom we appreciate the accuracy of language, are sometimes a little cumbersome or - if I may say so - they give us 'perceive', but it is true that they are useful and serve to memorize them, so I will say one: in the rights of all people, in the recognition on an equal footing of half the population, with the memory of all women workers who rose up to defend their rights, their bread and theirs and did so by putting the body, the name, occupying the public space without asking for permission or forgiveness, these budgets are not speeches, they are resources. Because the institutions are for that...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u182	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u183	... to work - it has ended already - to make politics useful, to improve people's lives, to say, because we are in it, that we want free and alive, that we want alive and free from sexist violence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 525 million, this is what the Ministry of Equality costs the Spaniards. To give us an idea, this amount is more than the sum of the budgets of the municipalities of Toledo, Ciudad Real, Cuenca, Guadalajara and Albacete, of all the municipalities of the provinces of Castilla-La Mancha. The first thing we have to consider is that, to the indignation that this budget produces - because it does not meet the real needs of the Spaniards, it is pure ideology - we must add that it will increase the deficit of the State by 525 million euros. This means that the foolish agenda that the minister is going to put in place is going to have to pay our children and grandchildren, as well as the recruitment of staff, because they go from 107 to 237 posts, which will increase more than twice the amount of staff expenditure, from 3.5 million to 7.5 million, with the peculiarity of hiring people convicted of justice and advisers also resented by justice. Our children and grandchildren are going to have to pay for events such as the conduct of studies on non-binary people in Spain, or an international comparison in masculinity policies, or the awards to friends, such as that made to the consultant of a consultant of President Sánchez to report on gender and climate change, where he concludes-listen - that patriarchy is harmful to our climate. This, ladies and gentlemen, surpasses that of the pink color, surpasses that of the pink color that oppresses the woman of the previous year. [[applause]] By the way, the same consultant is awarded the contract for the design of the State Strategy to combat sexist violence for 250,000 euros. It is scandalous that the Women's Institute is raising 3 million euros. Future generations will finance institutional advertising. This year it has exceeded 13 million euros. Many of the campaigns are aimed at indoctrination in gender ideology, undermining the duty of neutrality of the State, or are dedicated to combating what they call gender stereotypes in order to promote a gender-free image of women. I don't know very well what this means, but it must be something like pink; I don't really understand it very well. Ladies and gentlemen, is this all necessary? At a time like the present, is all this necessary? They increase taxes and mortgage future generations to pay these dislates. This has to be paid by the young person with precarious work, the entrepreneur who is making real efforts not to close his business, the farmer who cannot introduce his products, who is having many difficulties, who is being ruined, or the young farmer who cannot form a family, the families who have to choose between putting the heating or filling the shopping basket. An example, and let's land in real life: a family with two children who enter 1200 euros a month has to pay to Hacienda 120 euros a month just for the IRPF, and we have not counted indirect taxes or contributions. They cannot pay for the light; these families cannot pay for the light, they cannot feed their children, but it will be very good for them to pay taxes to inform them about masculinity policies or to tell them that patriarchy is the fault of the climate. There's nowhere to catch it, you've lost your mind, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Simply, they despise the Spanish and the Spanish begin to be fed up, they demand other priorities. They are fed up with this Government, but especially this ministry that should never have existed, because if it is unacceptable for money to be spent that we do not have in everything above, that we can consider as an expoliation, it is even worse that they do so to pass laws with the sole desire to create division and destroy the family, laws that violate fundamental freedoms and rights to impose a culture that undermines our values and our Constitution, contrary to the truth about human nature and far away from any balanced reasoning or justice. It is a source of indignation that, at this time of convulsive, difficult, what you are most concerned about, Minister, is the extension of the abortion law to encourage the increase of attacks on life or the adoption of a trans law that does not pursue equality or non-discrimination. That's not true. They should talk to people who do not belong to the lobbies, to other people, to tell them that they are not, that they are using them and that they do not pursue such non-discrimination, because their laws pursue a totalitarian and anti-scientific ideology, that attacks freedoms and can cause irreversible harm to children. It is his communist ideology that directs his policies. This could be framed in the concept of political violence that you use. It calls for freedom to violate the same freedom, equality to establish an unequal society and feminism to combat the very identity or essence of women. In just two years you have loaded the feminist movement; that's not what I'm saying, it's what your Socialist Party comrades are saying. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will increase the budget to combat gender-based violence to 284 million - almost all your speech has been about male-based violence - but this budget will be used to increase the number of children, because the amount that comes to women is tiny. The truth and truth is that the murders do not descend, because the laws do not go to the causes and do not reflect on the causes, they use them to make their politics night after night on machismo, transferring that all men are potential criminals and thus stimulate hatred. That's your flag and that's the policy you do, and I have a lot of doubts, Minister. I have many doubts, radical feminist ladies, because I have always considered myself a feminist. I have many doubts that matter to women's lives knowing their position before life. I have a lot of doubts. It is a barbarity and cause of the increase of the crisis by paternity that the visits are cancelled by a mere complaint. They have a real obsession with men, and it is a mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to regard man as an enemy. That's very old, that's very old, that comes from the Revolution of 68 and that has brought many problems to the Spanish. What needs to be considered is that harmony will only be achieved in the light of complementarity and that women only want to be women. Finally, I would like to say that it is enormously surprising that there is not a single party, not a single euro for the help of pregnant women; the woman who in many cases is not free to have children because she is prevented from her professional work, and they do not want her to be free to oppose abortion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u186	Mrs. Méndez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u187	I'm done, Madam President. In short, they are budgets that are not going to improve the lives of the Spaniards, of the women, of the homosexuals, of the children, of the parents, of the families, but on the contrary. They are going to increase the debt, they mean a mockery and they are more than enough reason for this ministry to disappear and you, minister, resign. At VOX we won't rest until we get it. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Méndez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u189	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. In the week of November 25, I want to begin by conveying a message that resounds on the streets by many women: we are tired of violence, we want a life free of violence against women. [[Applauds]] And I would like to recall from this rostrum all the victims of gender-based violence, the murdered women, 1118 since 2003, and also all the women who are currently suffering some kind of manifestation of macho aggression and are currently living together with the macho aggressions. For them, for you, for all of us, we are here today. Minister, welcome. Allow me to thank, first of all, the work being done by the various political groups, the various political groups, for the renewal of the State Pact against Gender Violence, but, in particular, allow me to thank my group, the PSOE, for the effort we have been making for a long time to highlight the need to renew the State Pact against Gender Violence. And also, Minister, I want to thank you for the work you have done as a minister with all your team, the ministry and also the United We can make this come to an end. Thank you, Minister. Joint action against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the State Pact against Gender Violence is an essential political agreement. The great consensus we achieved in 2017 is an important milestone in our democracy. And it is, among many other things, because we moved a strong message: the institutions, which are all of us, we said no to violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, I lived in the Senate, I was rapporteur of the state pact in the Senate. There all political forces - also United We can, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - all political forces supported the document of the state pact. And I want to convey to you that as a Member, and in my time in politics, if there is anything that has made me feel tremendously proud is the unanimity of that consensus that we reached in 2017. [[Applauds]] The state pact has made possible something as important as the creation of a shared, direct and finalist funding network, which reaches all corners of our country, all the municipalities of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, this, before the pact, did not happen. It is already a budgetary reality in these General State Budgets the increase of 20 to 40 million euros of financing to the municipalities to work against gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, take a good look at me for a moment. Violence against women is the most serious public security problem in Spain, the most serious of all public security problems in this country. If I asked them right now to close their eyes and think of a situation where they were afraid of being assaulted, I'm sure it would coincide with me that men would feel fear in the middle of a fight, but where do we feel afraid of being assaulted by women? Women feel afraid at the door of our house when they arrive at night, and hundreds of thousands of women in this country suffer fear within their homes because they live with the aggressors. [[Applauds]] The most insecure place in the world for a woman is her own home, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable, because democracy is not compatible with fear. To combat fear, it is necessary to combat machismo and also violence against women. And these budgets, Minister, allocate 54% of the total funds to the fight against violence. In addition, yesterday the Council of Ministers approved a direct grant of EUR 32 million up to 2023 to the EMFF to boost Atenpro, to improve, modernise and expand telephone and telematic services to help women victims of violence. Protecting women is an essential priority for this Government. And these General State Budgets are historical budgets. They are historic in terms of equality because they exceed the €500 million barrier. The Ministry of Equality - and hear me well, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - is one of the most important ministries of a government. Those who question the existence of a Ministry of Equality have not yet reached democracy. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Hala!-Protests]] And you're neither here nor expected. [[Applauds]] These figures that the Minister is presenting to us today, as she said, are historical. What is incomprehensible is that the People's Party dares to come here and criticize these accounts after its budgetary legacy in equality policies. Montoro's latest budgets allocated a total of 20 million for equality and 40 for the fight against violence. Do you know how much it is allocated today, how much these General State Budgets are allocated? More than 200 for equality and more than 200 million euros against gender-based violence. Therefore, it is ridiculous, ridiculous!, that the People's Party come here to criticize these accounts. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I also have to remind you of another issue you are not going to like, and it is that the budgets of the People's Party never incorporated the funds of the state pact, it was a socialist amendment that got in 2018 that the 120 million euros will be incorporated for autonomous communities and municipalities. I'm finishing up. These budgets are feminist budgets in their entirety and these accounts, the accounts of the General Budgets of the State, are possible thanks to the leadership of President Pedro Sánchez in Europe. The President has secured essential funds for the economic and social recovery of our country and for this recovery not to leave anyone behind. Can you imagine Rajoy's PP leading something in Europe? You can't imagine it because it didn't happen and it won't happen. With the PP, neither European funds nor good budgets for equality between women and men; and I tell you with Rajoy, because with Casado and his partner, the always absent Mr Abascal, it is better or not to imagine.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u190	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u191	I'm done, Madam President. These feminist budgets are a great opportunity for all and for all, but above all for all. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Time! Time!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u192	Mrs. Berja, finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u193	I'm done, Madam President. I know that the far right is particularly disturbed to listen to me, but they will listen to me, they will continue to listen to me from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. Thank you, Minister, on this week of November 25th... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u194	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u195	...in this week of November 25, and always, together against gender-based violence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u196	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs We move on to the debate in section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u197	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Firstly, I would like to say that it is a pleasure to be able to present here the programme and budget lines of the ministry for the second consecutive year, a year in which budget lines grow and, therefore, resources grow and the possibility of carrying out a series of programmes that will meet the objectives that we have set ourselves at the beginning of this parliamentary term. This is a 20.65% increase in resources and if we also look at European funds, almost 40%. It is, as I said, a matter of fulfilling a number of commitments set out in the coalition agreement with the credibility that we have now fulfilled 46% of the commitments contained in that coalition agreement. Therefore, in the ministry we are fulfilling, practically day by day, the planned programming of these policies. These are very important policies, which I will try to summarise in three fundamental blocks: those relating to healthy consumption; that relating to food security and nutrition and to ecological impact; those relating also to gambling and gambling in general - betting houses, gambling rooms - and those relating to the protection of consumers and the rights that are also constitutionally established, as reflected in our Constitution in Article 51. The fundamental programmatic guideline that we follow, in addition to the coalition agreement and the clear principles of a progressive government, is the New Consumer Agenda of the European Commission, a consumer agenda that we have had an opportunity to explain in sufficient depth in the relevant Commission here, in the Congress of Deputies, and which sets out the necessary guidelines in these three dimensions that I have just pointed out, and where everything that has to do with the ecological transition and that has to do with vulnerable consumers is particularly important. An example of this was seen here in a royal decree-law for people who had been affected by the volcanic eruption in La Palma, where we incorporated a series of very important consumer measures for the protection of citizens and affected families. It is a question of being able to put numbers and resources into policies that, as I said, aim to protect the rights of consumers and change to healthier consumption habits, more sustainable consumption habits and more responsible consumption habits. I start with the part related to healthy consumption. As you know, the Aesan Agency is responsible for food security and nutrition in our country. In addition, we are incorporating an additional line of work, which is that of monitoring, monitoring and monitoring the ecological impact of certain consumption habits, in this case food. We have a number of proposals and programmes aimed at meeting the objectives, which are also the objectives of the World Health Organization, the objectives of organizations committed to the health of the population and, in particular, of the most vulnerable individuals and social sectors, which are basically two at first glance. As I was saying, a particularly vulnerable sector that has to do with families with less resources... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u198	Excuse me, Minister. I ask you, please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u199	Thank you, Madam President. As I was telling you, the Food and Nutrition Security Agency and the Ministry of Consumer Affairs have a line of work to improve eating habits in our country. Why? Because we have a series of indicators of public health, of individual health that are extremely worrying. I give you only one figure: 40% of boys and girls between the ages of six and nine have some kind of overweight or obesity. This is not only a higher probability of adult obesity, and is therefore linked to chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes or hypertension and even some types of cancer, but also has effects at the same time of the life stage of these children in relation to psychological aspects that they may suffer in the social or educational environment. This is a problem that highlights the Aladdin Report of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, but it is so highlighted by the reports of the Gasol Foundation or the reports of the World Health Organization. Year after year it is seen that we have a problem of eating habits and that this problem is twice as much among the poorest families as among the richest families. This is a problem, therefore, that challenges us about social class, that challenges us about poverty, that challenges us about inequality and that necessarily demands a bold and courageous public policy in the face of complex problems that do not require simple solutions, but complex and multidimensional solutions that have to do with consumption habits, that have to do with areas that are not of consumption - for example, of physical exercise - that have to do with taxation, that have to do with advertising and that has to do with a series of public policies always aimed at improving these indicators that, by the way, have put us at the level of countries such as the United States or Mexico. This is particularly serious in a country like ours, which has a trajectory and history of penetration of the Mediterranean diet and we should be in a much more favourable situation. It is therefore a question of correcting dynamics that are detrimental to the lives and health of the most vulnerable, boys and girls - children's population - and also of working families with fewer resources. And if on top of it is a child or a child of a working family with few resources, the problems are doubly acute. In this sense, we have in the budgets awareness and information campaigns, campaigns that aim to explain to the citizenry what science has accumulated of scientific evidence over the last decades so that they can be taken, freely, with a very wide range, with a very wide repertoire of options, decisions of consumption by parents, mothers and, of course, adult people who want to do so. In addition, this is carried not only by means of campaigns of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, but also involves the connection with civil society, on the one hand, through the vehicle of consumer associations and, on the other, through agreements with civil society organisations, for example, an agreement is currently under way with the Gasol Foundation, which is also committed to combating child obesity, which is currently in progress and enables parents to explain improvements and tricks so that snacks and breakfasts for young people can have better nutritional components and thus improve their lives. These are therefore public money and resources for better food and therefore for better habits and thus for better health, increased life expectancy and a series of correlations that reach the macro-economic level. Furthermore, you know that we have announced that we hope to have in the shortest possible time a new regulation of advertising aimed at the children's public precisely to bring us to the level of other countries that have already done so, such as Portugal, Norway or even the United Kingdom, following the nutritional profiles of the World Health Organization. It is about establishing new incentive frameworks so that citizens can enjoy better health and do not interrupt or hinder a healthy childhood, which is what our boys and girls deserve. This is the part of food health, but we have to bear in mind that there is growing awareness that global food systems have a clear effect on greenhouse gas emissions. According to FAO, the global food system is already responsible for one third of greenhouse gas emissions. The good news is that there is a broad level of improvement, and the best news is that normally, in general, improving eating habits to have better health also improves the health of the planet itself, because if we go to consumption habits in which we consume locally, we consume closely, we not only protect local employment, but surely, by improving our fruit, vegetable or vegetable components, we will also be improving the ecological impact on the planet. Therefore, in these budgets there is encouragement of campaigns to express support, to encourage, to contribute more tools to local consumption, to consumption in the vicinity, as we did with the Royal Decree on the Flexibility of Livestock Production, to facilitate the producer to provide with the best health guarantees his products directly to the consumer, thus improving the health of the consumer and, at the same time, reducing the emission of greenhouse gases that is associated with this other type of intensive agro-industrial system, whose consequences we are already seeing at the food level, at the ecological level and also at the social level. Secondly, I want to tell you that we are moving on to gambling, gambling houses, gambling halls. I would like to take this opportunity to bring you here an important element. Many years ago, five or six, the social alarm about this matter grows because gambling halls grow, because the facilities in our cities grow, which become spaces for socializing young people who consume their leisure there and, in part, through betting processes and compulsive consumption, with a series of important public health implications for a significant percentage of those participants, who can get to have the extreme case of ludopathy. But before that, there are a number of gradients that affect game disorders. I would like to add that, a month ago, researchers Cañizares and Martínez have published a first academic report on the impact on school performance of the proximity of bookmakers to schools, and the conclusions are devastating. In working class neighborhoods, in popular neighborhoods, in neighborhoods with a lower per capita income where gambling houses or playrooms are located near the schools, performance falls extraordinarily in relation to schools that are located in rich neighborhoods, where betting houses or playrooms and multinationals that manage them have usually decided that it is not the right place for such leisure mechanisms to be established with this danger. This suggests that the policy of gambling, the policy of gambling, the policy carried out by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, is aimed not only at protecting working families and their users from the pathological and health consequences of such compulsive consumption, but also at other vital dimensions, in this case, the field of education. In addition, the good news is that, as you know, especially if you are a sports fan, since September 1 there is no advertising of gambling houses or games halls on any kind of advertising medium: not on television, not in the print press, not in the digital press, not on the Internet, not on any of the Internet platforms. Since 1 September, the Royal Advertising Decree, which we launched when we arrived at the Government, is in force and which, fortunately, has closed the entry vector of new players who normally, with a wide knowledge of the matter, are incorporated into a sector that, as we said, was very dangerous. I just want to remind you that in the past year 40% of the new players in this field were young between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, that is to say, the sector had made a great effort to ensure that the most vulnerable people, the elderly but of young age, between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, were the main depositories of all this. That is why we have campaigns - you will have seen it in the budgets - aimed at information and awareness, because, once the new players' entry vector is closed, we have a large bag of players who can still be unaware of the real risks associated with this type of economic activity, leisure activity, compulsively. That's why we have a real safe play decree, which will be passed in the coming weeks, and at the same time information and awareness campaigns, along with the rate of return of the game to protect working families especially for the class element I talked about earlier and for all players. We have also planned sufficient research and studies to be able to monitor this issue, a matter of growing concern in the European Union. Other countries are imitating our public policies precisely because this is not just a national problem, but an international problem with a considerable extent due to new technologies and the importance of globalisation in the field of sport and sports competitions. We moved on to the third block - in order to be able to comply with this summary within a reasonable time - of budget items, adding something that had happened to me. In the first of the blocks, related to the matter of food security and nutrition, we have a series of items for the improvement of the facilities, of the machinery of the different laboratories that we have in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, both in Spain and outside of Aesan, that will allow for a much more effective and effective follow-up than what is - undoubtedly fundamental - food security, but also of all the work in general of the Aesan itself and of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs itself. In fact, for the first time, the National Strategy for Food Security and Nutrition, which was planned for 2008 and had so far not had a budget expression, is being budgeted. And when we move to the third block we are talking about the block of consumer protection; what a person might imagine is a Ministry of Consumer Affairs when he has not yet gone into the matter and the question, that is, everything related to the protection of persons who have established a contractual relationship with a large company and who have to make some kind of complaint, request for information or any kind of relationship that would enable him to fulfil his rights, which, as he said, are rights collected at the constitutional level and are rights that should form part of the business culture as elements of competitiveness. In this area, in addition to strengthening all existing instruments, we reinforce one of particular importance, namely the arbitration boards. Arbitral boards are instruments that prevent the judicialization of such conflicts. You know that for business environments where consumer law is not seen as an element of competitiveness - which would be a good decision if at some point it is taken by large companies - but is seen as a kind of ballast, a series of impossible barriers are laid down for many families to be able to exercise rights. We are talking about a labyrinth sometimes administrative so that we can exercise their rights. Well, when the limit is reached, recourse is usually made to the judicial system, which not only collapses the courts, but also slows down the process. Arbitral boards exist at the municipal, provincial and autonomous levels in order to facilitate faster, more effective and non-crash out-of-court decisions. The budgetary reinforcement we are making under this heading is important and the agreements we are concluding with the different entities of the public administration are very remarkable. You also know that in this area we have adopted the Royal Decree of the vulnerable consumer and that we presented a few months ago, the Royal Decree incorporating the sanctioning regime. For the first time, the central Government will be able to supplement the systems and mechanisms of the autonomous communities in order to be able to deal with certain offences or faults by large enterprises and to punish them, so as to discourage further reproduction of that fault. The preliminary draft law on customer service services to improve the efficiency and capacity of consumers when exercising their rights via the telephone is already before the Council of Ministers in the first round. It is a project whose original draft dates from the year 2011 - for a decade as draft - and which now comes forward. I have tried to summarize some of the central issues that appear to be budgeted. They are lines of work of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, lines of work of the Government of Spain, cross-cutting lines of work that should correspond to certain expanded consensus - it is the naivety that one sometimes has - because we are dealing with sufficiently sensitive issues, such as the protection of vulnerable persons, the protection of children, the improvement of eating habits and the fight against ludopathy. We are talking about matters that will require, under normal conditions, a broad compromise and consensus on the part of the whole House, just as there is already that consensus in the field of society and also civil society. But, as I was saying, maybe that only corresponds to my own naivety. In any case, we will continue to work to meet the objectives, and so far, in this second presentation, we have met 46% of those presented in the coalition agreement. Let us hope that this percentage will continue to rise, because legitimacy clearly links us to that coalition agreement and to the improvement of the living conditions of citizens. We are carrying out a courageous policy, a policy that takes place in certain areas that have been historically complex, and we are guided not only by the agendas, such as the New Agenda for European Consumers, but also and above all by the defence of public health, especially the health of the most vulnerable people and social sectors, which are, as I said, children and working families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u200	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u201	Thank you, Mr. Garzón, for your appearance. In Citizens we consider that consumption is one of the areas in which the individual's freedom and autonomy are most evident: it is the citizen as a consumer who with his or her power buys and decides to reward certain efforts by companies and suppliers of goods and services. [[The Lord]] To do this, consumers need accessible, simple, clear and truthful information, as well as a network of tools and mechanisms to enforce their interests. Only with adequate information can a consumer be truly free and autonomous in terms of his consumer decisions. This I am telling you now I believe is the greatest challenge your ministry has. It has other serious responsibilities in the areas of food security, food guidance and information, but, together with the new trade, I believe it is the greatest challenge ahead. In Citizens we believe that free competition based on rules is the best guarantee to encourage companies to develop products and services that are increasingly innovative and cost-effective. It is precisely this battle between competitors which encourages investments in value added and which enables the development of goods and services more efficiently, lowering the final price that the consumer will pay. It is very important to ensure legal certainty and certainty so that companies can develop their innovation and goods and services development projects more efficiently. With arbitrariness and unclear rules free competition between companies cannot develop. This, however, is an amendment to some of the rules that they will bring and that we will do in the future. With regard to nutrition and food security, we welcome the intention to update the national strategy on food security and nutrition. However, the draft State General Budgets for 2022 does not detail the funding that will be allocated to this update or how it will be carried out or what its objectives are. What do we think this policy has to lead? For information to consumers on the nutritional value of products - we have often talked about labelling in the Commission and in appearances you and your team people -, that actions in educational centres are enhanced to address healthy food from childhood, measures to promote the affordability of healthy foods - paradoxically, they are less affordable than before healthier foods - and, finally, food security and nutrition as key to the economic, environmental and social sustainability of the primary sector. But we're betting on information, not prohibition. In this we say with you. That is the great difference between your thesis and ours, and I am referring to the advertising of certain types of foods, of pastries with high sugar content. We believe that with labelling and information sufficient, there is no need to prohibit advertising. That's right, I warn you that you have a superpower that you don't know and, therefore, be careful with the things you announce, because it was you saying that you wanted to ban the advertising of pastries and sweets and carved characters already, entered in years, with the veins punished and combing reeds ran to take pictures eating twenty doughnuts, bollycaos and cases - I saw the photos - as if it were equipable to throw the Berlin wall put a tweet against telling you in that sense. I was surprised how powerful you are: with a tweet you can put much of your political opponents with hyperglycemia. But be godly. I am talking to you about an amendment that we have tabled to increase the budget of the Internet Observatory. Why? We believe that it is a tool that, from what I told you at the beginning of my speech, can deploy more activity than you attribute to it. The Government announced that it planned to devote around EUR 500 000 for the launch of this observatory to combat fraud in e-commerce and support the autonomous communities by establishing an online consultation and complaint manager. This objective is laudable, we share it and it seems good to us, and the truth is that we believe that the planned funding is insufficient for this other challenge that we believe should have this observatory, because we believe that it should serve not only as a reference point for consumers and users of online commerce, but also for companies and intermediaries who want to incorporate digitisation into their business model. Also, with regard to some of the rules that are going to bring us to this House, we are going to ask that from your ministry you facilitate some of the demands of the Community directives, which we are going to move with a high level of demand. We also agree with the standards you propose from the ministry to check the veracity of comments or ratings made about products on the Internet. There are big companies that can do it, but there are small producers that can't. I believe that there we can understand each other and come to an agreement in this regard. I have saved myself time from my intervention for this last part, because Mr. Elorza - how about, Odon?, I see he is still there - has cheated on me before, without knowing that I would go back up here, to the rostrum. Bad luck, Mr. Elorza. Mr. Elorza has recriminated me for mentioning the victims of terrorism by the Socialist Party's Otegi pacts. I'm going to respond to Mr. Elorza's cries and allusions, which are actually looking for the affection of his bench. I propose an exercise: neither you nor I will listen to what the victims say about these pacts with Otegi. Do you know what this is, Mr. Elorza? [[Shows a written folio]] It is a handwritten letter from the son of Fernando Múgica, whom you mentioned in this rostrum, addressed to the organizational secretary of the PSOE of Guipúzcoa. I read it: 'Dear Mikel, in the eyes of everyone, the secretary general of the Socialist Party of Euskadi cooked with Arnaldo Otegi the Christmas Eve dinner. Not in my name. Please process my PSOE discharge. Greetings. José María García Múgica'. [[Applauds]] Imagine what he says, the son of the murdered - not me, not you - before the budget pact. Are you going to recriminate Fernando Múgica's son? And I'll tell you more. Do you know what this is, Mr. Elorza? [[Shows a press clipping]] This is the news that Txapote, the murderer of Fernando Múgica, was honoured last Christmas; not in 1936, but last Christmas. Your partners, Mr. Elorza, homing your partner's killer. [[Applauds]] Do you know why you're yelling at me, Mr. Elorza? To silence his conscience. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u202	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garzón, with Sánchez and with Garzón, we consumers live worse. The energy crisis, which has resulted in an economic crisis and a social crisis, is having a devastating impact on consumers. I was told by a taxi driver: it took four months without being able to pay for the light, because the priority is to eat my children. The light is 63% more expensive. I was told by a colleague: I studied in my neighborhood what the shopping basket has put up for me, and it has put up an average of 30%; what I used to buy for 100 euros now I need 130. My friend's son, who lives in Talavera and works in Madrid and who comes and goes every day, is desperate, because before with 70 euros he filled the gas tank and now needs 91. An old neighbor tells me they charge him for taking money, because he can't handle the ATM. And a businessman told us a few days ago that he was paying 1 million euros of light a month and now he's paying 3 million, and that if he wants to preserve his company's jobs he has to impact that cost on the products he manufactures. And that's what's going to happen from now on much more, which is going to impact on prices. Do you know what the CIS said recently? That 90% of the Spaniards are concerned about the rise of light and that 70% of them have been lighted, to almost 20 million Spanish families. The impact on the economy is brutal. So, how do you measure it? Well, I'll show you a chart, Minister. [[Show chart]] The CPI. We have reached 5.5% of the consumer price index. Do you know he's the oldest in the last twenty-nine years? This has an impact on the huge family and social economies; in families, self-employed, pensioners, unemployed, the most vulnerable. Energy poverty has increased, the purchasing power of families has decreased, inflation is outstripped, and it is going to be permanent, not transitory. You with an 8% light rise put the scream in the sky, but now with a 300 % say nothing. How high are you on your couch, with your carpet, with your official car and saving the planet that doesn't know what's going on? This is the raw reality of the Spanish every day. And what have you done? What has your ministry done? Are these budgets that you bring us here today going to solve the problems that the Spanish have at the moment? I'll explain to you what you've done. When the light goes up you present a kitchen recipe, which is a copy of one that Stalin made at the time. [[Shows a press clipping]] You'd do very well, you know what, to go to Arguinano's program instead of being a minister. Look, when you go up the shopping basket, what you do is attack kids with candy and candy. That's right, he doesn't care if we legalize cannabis. When you go up the gasoline and the butane you attack the meat. When services go up it attacks sugary drinks and when taxes go up it attacks oil, ham and all products of the brand Spain. Moreover, it is committed - I have already told you that it is a betrayal - to defending the French multinationals that adopt the Nutri score label, against the Spanish products of the highest quality. Your events, Minister, upset and confuse consumers. [[Applauds]] Your ministry is a useless ministry, you have not been able to pass a single law in these two years, and that is why we have asked in our first amendment to eliminate the Ministry of Consumption. It's a ministry that costs us 65.7 million euros to pay for Mr. Sánchez's chair. Montero, Belarus, Garzón and Darias, four ministries, do what a Popular Party minister did before. Yes, you have taken advantage, even bringing poverty, to place all your friends: you have one hundred and twenty-nine high offices placed. Do you know the joke that's running on social media right now? A son asks his father: what is the middle class? The father answers: those who have heating. And his son asked him, "What about the rich, father?" And the father answers him: those, those who can put it. That's what's happening right now, Mr. Garzón. And what's to be done? What the Group of the European People's Party has proposed in its amendments and what President Casado has been proposing for many months: lowering the price of light, because it is going to have a chain effect on the fall of the rest of the prices. EUR 9 billion must be removed from the electricity bill and reduced by 20%. Minister, could you answer me if I asked you at this time the scientific data on how the rise in light and prices has impacted consumers? The highest light has risen in twenty years, bread, oil, tomatoes, one hundred products from the shopping basket - every time you speak up bread -, fuels, services, taxes, there are doubts that there may be a blackout, there are doubts that there may be a shortage. No, Mr. Garzón, you can't answer me, because you're not doing anything. One amendment we proposed was to put in place mechanisms for monitoring, monitoring and information on the impact of price increases on consumers, and they voted no. What does the People's Party propose, for example, on the issue of obesity? Make a strategic plan to combat obesity where the mysteries of Health, Consumption, Social Welfare, Education and Sport are involved. I know this has to be an integral struggle. Their occurrences are not what scientific societies are proposing. It fills your mouth with forbidding and raising taxes and we defend freedom and lowering taxes. Look, there are no good foods or bad foods, as the NAOS Obesity Strategy says, but there are poorly balanced diets, which is what is happening right now. And we've made more proposals. We have called for the investigation of ludopathy, support for the consumer council, the arbitration boards and, also, for the VAT to be lowered on masks, light, hairdressers, diapers, restoration, meals and drinks. We are aware of what is happening to consumers. Minister, your ministry is worthless, really, go away. Do you know the only hope we have at this time, Minister? That social communism comes out, and I hope it's sooner than later. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u204	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Mr. Minister of Consumer Affairs. In my speech during the debate at the previous budgetary session, I have already stressed the mistake of maintaining a multi-faceted Council of Ministers, with no less than twenty-two portfolios, several of which are absolutely unnecessary. I think there are still many Spaniards who wonder, in the equator of this XIV Legislature, what the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is for. Mr. Garzón, the only reason for your department's existence is that it responds to the pact by which PSOE and United We may have formalized the coalition government. That is the only reason, a question of quota. In fact, you have spent the first two years trying to give content to a portfolio that for this next year 2022 will have a greater volume of expenditure, nothing less than 39%, which translates - you have pointed out - into 65 million euros. So far, let me tell you, you have only pointed out by impertinent statements that have aroused the indignation of sectors very important to the economy and employment in Spain. In the first weeks of the KOVID-19 pandemic, he despised tourism, here in parliament, calling it a seasonal, precarious and low-value-added sector. He also included in the package hospitality, which is one of the daily axes of social coexistence in our country. [[Applauds]] It has also irritated producers of ham, olive oil and other products, on account of the nutritional traffic lights Nutri Score and a label that links the Mediterranean diet. His interest in publishing led him to broadcast a video in which he asked the Spaniards to reduce the consumption of meat, which also outraged the whole agri-food sector and the farmer. On your tour to try to fix the hussy with the meat sector you passed a couple of months ago through Asturias and took a mugged photo with the bull Molinon, which will be a candidate to become one of the chops to the point of the taste of the president of the government, who contradicted you from Lithuania in the face of the scandal provoked by your hobbies of youtuber happening. After announcing, to the disgust of the producers, advertising prohibitions of sweets and sugary drinks for children, the last eggplant in which you have been involved has consisted in the launch, from the budgets of the ministry, of a cookbook, which has awakened the hilarity on social networks and critical comments of our restaurateurs and gastronomes. You just remembered Mrs. Riolobos. Mr Garzón, I suppose you are aware that the Spanish face the next Christmas with the highest inflation in almost three decades, with the basket of the purchase triggered, with the receipt of the light beating records constantly, with the fuels in full climb, with serious supply difficulties, which is paralysing the sales chain and access to essential goods. Minister of Consumer Affairs, the budgets you manage in your department are not to create controversy, to despise hoteliers, to vapulate the agri-food and livestock sector or to play master chef from your office. Your work, Mr. responsible for Consumer Affairs, should meet the major priorities of the Spanish people, who are now impoverished as a consequence of a government you are part of. Its quota ministry is perfectly indispensable, because in Spain it is the Ministry of Health that has to talk about care and improvement of our health; by the way, it is a matter assumed by all the autonomous communities. In the area of groceries, agriculture, fisheries and food, it is that ministry that must give its opinion. And tourism and hospitality matters, the corresponding ministry. You have reiterated the mention of the agreement that PSOE and United We may have signed to point out the commitments and objectives of this XIV Legislature. Mr Garzón, this is the agreement that has led us two years later to the independenceists and separatists marking the passage of the Spanish coalition government. For me, on behalf of the Forum, this is a more than justified reason to reject the whole budget bill, and I made it clear in the whole amendment that was rejected at the beginning of November by the House plenary. I thank him for his eloquent and disturbing data on the proliferation of gambling venues, its impact on young people and the danger of proximity to educational institutions, but I do not believe that awareness-raising and propaganda campaigns are the panacea against ludopathy. And again his ministry invades the role that it has to play in developing other departments and other administrations. In relation to gambling, addictions and the fight against the almighty world of betting, about literature and, above all, lack of political action, which in the eyes is that you are not in a position to develop from your ministry, because your competence has it other colleagues of the blue bank. Mr. Consumers, if the usefulness of your portfolio was already questionable from the moment of its creation, today, in addition to questionable, it is costly. I will not answer with my vote the budgets of a section which does not provide anything to solve the major problems of the Spanish and, in particular, of the consumers. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u206	Mrs López Domínguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u207	Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister. Mrs Riolobos Regadera, you have us accustomed in the Commission to shows, but please, how dare you in plenary come to tell this splendour of lies, of confusion, without any argumental contribution? I had to say that at the beginning of the exhibition, because it has left me overwhelmed. [[Applauds]] Having said that, both Mr Martínez Oblanca and Mrs Riolobos Regadera have been asked why the Ministry of Consumer Affairs was set up. As you know, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs was created for the first time in this legislature. Why? Because this government attaches importance to consumer protection. Mr Garzón has said that Article 51 of the Constitution must be complied with, but it is also that we have an obligation to solve an imbalance carried over for decades, which has been increased by the not so new globalized trade relations, the stabilized landing of online trade, and which has left behind the worst consequences of so-called market asymmetries. Sixty per cent of the population between the ages of fifteen and sixty-four claims to have played with money. 23.3% of girls and boys between the ages of six and nine are overweight and 17.3% are obese. Older people who do not have access to good food need more State resources than those who do have good food. 54% of people have had problems with telecommunications companies, whose customer service services, rather than caring for them, are neglecting. Lost opportunities for customer service laws. In view of this reality, it was and is essential for the Government to respond to this imbalance and to promote protection policies for consumers, especially those in vulnerable situations, in the area of consumption, services, food and non-food products and online gambling. It is necessary for the Government to manage the worst consequences of capitalism, focusing on the accumulation of capital and not on the distribution and homogenization of well-being and wealth. Gentlemen, this ministry has been created because of the importance we attach to consumer protection. Read the election programs before you go to this rostrum, because we were taking it in the programs of April 2019 and November 2019. This is what was included in the government agreement and how it is broken down in these budgets, with more than EUR 65 million, because what we want is the protection of consumers from corporate abuse. However, we find ourselves with criticisms of the far right, masked criticisms, dressed in fallacies of all kinds and, above all, inconsistent and irresponsible. We are aware that, despite Mr Garzón's personal disqualifications and their attempts to argue against the policies promoted by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the real reason is that the status quo is maintained and that companies can continue to camp at the expense of consumer rights. Mrs Riolobos Regadera and Mr de Gruppo Parlamentario Mixto, who, in total, has made a copy of her speech, speak and do not stop repeating the issue of the rise of light and the rise of the food basket. The rise of light is the responsibility of the PP government, which privatized Endesa and who put his little friends there; they have told them ten thousand times and you continue to insist and insist. [[Applauds]] The increase in the shopping basket is also your responsibility, because I remind you that the increase in VAT was also the responsibility of the PP governments. When Mr Garzón has an initiative, you laugh, although it is really a good initiative that has not been seen in previous governments. It's a recipe book for less than two, three or five euros, and they're also healthy. Have you found yourselves, because I do, with five euros to eat for a whole week? Have you guys found each other like this? Because if I had this book, I would have gone very well and not eaten rice every day. Having said that, moreover, the position of the PP is irresponsible and inconsistent for two reasons. One, because when reality really forces them to face social problems, they do try to show that they care about consumer relations; let's say they have tried to push campaigns in the Community of Madrid, in Castile and León, but only to wash their faces. It is clear that the PP's commitment is not to consumers, but to businesses. That's why they get confused. When Mr. Garzón says you have to have a balanced diet, they say you want to load the ham and you can only eat meat. When Mr. Garzón defends the regulated implementation of Nutricore, which you yourselves had lost, you say that this is not a Mediterranean diet, when precisely Nutri Score seeks a Mediterranean and balanced diet. The PP's position is also inconsistent because it harms its voters. You know that the legislation of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has consequences for all consumers, but more so in those who are in a vulnerable situation because they do not have economic resources, because they do not have education or because they are of retirement age. Just 2.5% of PP voters could not have access to education; 5.7% only to basic education; 15.1% have no resources; 37.4% live on less than EUR nine hundred per month. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Mrs Riolobos Regadera - I see you are not very interested in what I say, because you do not even listen - if it is incomprehensible that you do not want to protect the rights of consumers in Spanish society, what are you going to tell your voters that they are in this situation of vulnerability to justify your opposition to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs? I am not going to say much to the gentlemen of VOX, because you never show too much dialogue, but in the time I have left, I would like to address the ladies and gentlemen voting for VOX. Do not be deceived by a speech that, perhaps because of a situation of discomfort, of boredom, may seem attractive to you. VOX is dangerous; please don't believe them. [[Applauds]] If you really have needs, don't go to fascism, don't go to hatred, let this progressive government and this Ministry of Consumer Affairs get out of people's needs and reduce inequalities. Mr. Garzón has explained everything the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has done so far. I would also like to highlight your collaboration with the autonomous communities that the banking entities - I am finishing, Mr President - do not change the terms of their contracts unilaterally to collect commissions or to coordinate the self-prohibited registers of face-to-face gambling. It is for all these reasons that I do not understand how anyone can really oppose these budgets.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u208	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u209	Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u210	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Fernández Ríos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Garzón, one more year together in this debate and, thank God, one less year, and I hope it is the last. [[Applauds]] Mr. Garzón, last year at VOX we told you that you run the ministry of nothing because virtually nothing manages. The Spaniards do not forget that the chiringuito, the one of which you are a minister, was conceived as a tailor-made costume made of flaps. That's the macabre joke, that's the joke: that ministry has managed to sit you down on the corner of the Council of Ministers. And, believe me, that pocket ministry cost the Spaniards in 2021 20% more than it meant managing the same skills previously. Everything to cover the puemite quota in the Executive and so that you, as worthy representative and leader of the communist model that is, could have a succulent salary at the expense of the Spaniards. For you, Mr. Garzón, have been set up by this kind of ministry only to fulfill a quota; for nothing else, to fulfill a quota. Although you seem to be still unaware and are believed to have put it there with the obligation to get up every day with some new occurrence that might somehow justify your position. [[applause]] Let us bear in mind, truly, that it is not necessary, that it is not necessary to continue to invent! You, Mr. Garzón, not only run a useless ministry, but you are also reckless and every time you open your mouth, every time, I don't know how you do it, you have the rare ability to put up a war and do irreparable damage to some fundamental sector of our country. [[Applauds]] Mr. Garzón, really, you are no longer any Tertullian for the misfortune of the Spaniards and, even if you do not like the term, you are a minister of the kingdom of Spain and whatever you say or do has significance, even if it comes from you and then almost always you have to retract. [[applause]] [[laughs]] You started very badly, very badly, disregarding a basic sector of our economy such as tourism. He dared, out of his ignorance, to define it as a sector of low added value. And you know what? The only one who does not incorporate added value into your ministry is you, Mr. Garzón. Don't have the slightest doubt. [[Applauds]] He continued to demonstrate once again his boldness and deep ignorance by trying to introduce a labelling system that discourages the consumption of such important products as olive oil or Iberian ham. You have become the most common enemy of Spanish products, and this, said of one of the ministers of the kingdom of Spain, believe me that it has a capital gravity. It has put the entire livestock sector on a war footing, declaring meat consumption to be harmful to health and climate. That's right, as the Spanish speaker says, I sell advice that I don't have; that's right, he didn't remember to declare war on the flesh on the day of his wedding, with the bogavante and the calf lump he gave, right? [[Applauds]] That day he didn't remember. Really, I'm telling you, what a fear it would give me to open your fridge. Fear would give me to open his fridge. You make the maximum of hypocrisy good: do what I say, but don't do what I do. His recklessness also led him to declare war on the beet sector by blaming sugar for being the major cause of obesity, but, yes, on the other hand, you ask that cannabis use be legalized. I mean, Mr. Garzón, I don't know what you're trying to do, what do we do with the torrijas, instead of with sugar, with marijuana? Surely! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Garzón, every time you release one of your pearls, the primary sector trembles. Pearls like the one you said at the beginning of the year about the rise of light: that it was going to be something short-term, something transient. A true visionary of consumption and the economy! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Pearls like your opinion and decisions regarding the reimbursements of the travel agencies in the pandemic, which has cost your fantastic management the closure of more than 1200 businesses and 9000 people to unemployment. Congratulations, Mr. Garzón. [[Applauds]] But it is that, in addition, in case it were not much, even the Minister of Agriculture, even his own president, you have to reproach him on more than one occasion but, curiously, that yes, Mr Sánchez, instead of ceasing him, no, raises his budget, rewards him. That budget that last year cost us 20% more, that, that same, now costs us 40% more, said by you, 25 million euros plus, 25 million that, by the way, is what is being allocated this year in Spain to fight addictions through the National Drug Plan, 25 million, which is more than the amount budgeted by your Government in public investments in my province, Huelva, which is only 19 million euros, 19 million euros miserable. Do you really think for a moment that we are going to approve this foolish and incompetent draft budget? Mr Garzón, I told you last year and I will repeat it to you again now: stop constantly confronting businesses with consumers, even if that is what you put in your good Marxist manual. Let's see if he finds out that companies are the first ones interested in loyalizing and caring for their customers; no matter what he puts in his manual, that's the fundamental rule, that we know very well all those who have worked in the private company, and those who have had to lift the closure with our hands every morning. I know what I'm saying, but I also know that telling this to you, who doesn't even know what I'm talking about, is like preaching in the desert. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Garzón, I wouldn't want to be in your shoes in a few years, when you remember that you passed through this executive and that you will be remembered as the ministry of nothingness. That's a legacy! And since you and the doctor fraud are not going to leave the chair, from VOX I only ask you, we ask you to leave once and for all calm to all those Spaniards who do work for real, to those Spaniards who are leaving each day their life, their skin, to get ahead of their families, that enough problems already have no need for you to come with your daily occurrences. I'm done, Mr. President. Since you are the minister of nothingness, next year, I ask you please, pay attention, do nothing, nothing. [[Applauds]] Stick to the essential, hide and, if necessary, whistle; don't worry, we pay you the salary among all, don't worry. You are becoming the most grievous minister of this executive.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u212	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u213	I assure you that with the troops you have around you, and if you do not look at the ministers who have preceded you, it is not easy, it is not easy to be the worst. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u214	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u215	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, in the face of insults, minister, in the face of lack of education, in the face of disrespect for the lack of arguments to which VOX has already accustomed us and the lack of work, indifference, minister; indifference. [[Applauds]] Firstly, I would like to thank the honourable Members of the Right for the superlative importance they attach to the competences of this Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which is responsible, not least, for parameters that are not already national, but international and global, such as inflation, the increase in the shortage of raw materials, the price of diesel, in short, the same rigour and consistency that you show in your parliamentary speech in this rostrum, as if, on the one hand, you are concerned about the increase in the bill of light and, on the other hand, you are voting against lowering the VAT on light, you are voting against eliminating the sun tax, you are voting against the fact that part of the benefits of electricians impact on the receipt of Spanish families and you are voting against, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to increase the thermal social bonus by more than 40%, so that precisely the most vulnerable families can put heating on this winter. [[applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, where did you leave your soul? If you depended on the well-being of Spanish families, you would do what you know best, and you already showed that you do very well when you rule in times of crisis, that was nothing more or less what you did. You raised VAT on all products, reducing lay-off, freezing pensions, wages, public employment calls, selling public housing to vulture funds, cutting scholarships, health care, public education and dependency benefits, creating 33 new taxes, imposing health co-payments, and all this without depending, while, on the other hand, what you were doing were tax amnesty for your friends and rescuing the bank with everyone's taxes. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] These are your facts, these are your credentials, they are facts that demonstrate what interests you serve. Lessons of the People's Party in times of crisis, not one; not one. But, set to teach lessons, I'm a passionate pedagogy teacher. [[Protests]] First lesson: Is raising the interprofessional minimum wage good or bad for consumers? Because this government has increased the inter-branch minimum wage by more than 30% since it arrived. And what have you done? Vote against. Suspended, so consumers are not protected. Second lesson, housing. Last budget of Mariano Rajoy: 481 million budget for housing; budget of the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez: 3290 million to facilitate access to housing. Is this or is it not protecting the consumer? Because you're voting against it. Third lesson, pensions. I think it's easy, they'll know. Is it good or bad for consumers to increase pensions? I say it's gonna be good, right? So by raising pensions, as this government does under the CPI, compared to the 0.25 % scar you imposed, you are voting against. [[Applauds]] Tell the pensioners, tell the consumer pensioners that they are going to vote against raising their pensions, tell them that that is protecting the consumer. Let us talk about budgets and amendments. A month ago, Mrs Riolobos of the People's Party announced that her party was going to vote against the General Budgets of the State of Pedro Sánchez. So if they had already decided to vote against these budgets, why are they submitting amendments? Because the amendments are presented when one is not clear and, depending on how the negotiations are going, whether they support us more amendments or not, we approve the budgets or not. But no, you had already decided in advance that you did not intend to approve these budgets. Therefore, its amendments are the false amendments, they are the theatre amendments. These amendments are a pantomime in order to cover up what they are doing, which is the betrayal of the citizens of this country by voting against the greatest investment that no other Government has ever done in this country. [[Applauds]] Those are his amendments. The budgets of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs for 2022 reinforce the commitment of the Government of Spain to the defence of consumers, increasing the budget by 47%. For what? To create, among other things, the internet product observatory, due to the health crisis that has been created, increasing online trade in order to combat fraud in this marketing channel. Also to strengthen the mechanisms of extrajudicial resolution of conflicts, with a 50% increase for consumer arbitration boards, an essential element so that consumers do not have to go to court to defend their rights and put their claims; an increase of 50% to the one you are going to vote against. Also increasing this budget by 32% for the National Food Security Strategy, in order to adapt the functions of the Aesan to new regulatory elements, such as the 2030 Agenda, the European Consumer Agenda and the National Circular Economy Strategy. And in terms of gambling, these budgets, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, increase their departure by 66% to avoid the problems arising from compulsive gambling. Let them tell the Spanish families that they are going through the worst cases of ludopathy, and ask them if these cases of ludopathy do not affect their daily consumption. Let them tell those families that you are going to vote against a game that increases by 66% to fight the game that produces ludopathy. That's what you're doing to protect consumers. So, ladies and gentlemen of the right, this budget is a powerful consumer budget and, ladies and gentlemen of the right, no citizen who wants his land would vote against the biggest investment that no other government has ever made in our country. That is why, because we love our land and want the best for your people, we will vote in favour of these budgets and we will do everything possible to, despite you, and for the people waiting for us, take them forward. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 32, Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and Section 60, Social Security We move on to the debate in sections 32, Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and 60, Social Security. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare with you to report on the State General Budgets of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration for 2022, and I am convinced that this is one of the most important appointments this year. The accounts of a Government, its revenue and expenditure programme, are much more than an accounting tool. It is perhaps the best document for setting objectives and setting priorities. In the case of the accounts of the Ministry of Inclusion that I bring to the House today, they clearly reflect our commitment to the existing social protection programmes, but also to the new challenges that we want to face next year. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Inclusion will have a budget of almost EUR 200 billion next year, including contributions from the Recovery Plan, which represents an increase of 6.5% over this year's liquidation forecast, discounting the extraordinary costs incurred by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, this amount will allow us to deploy important policies in all areas of the ministry. I start with the area that is quantitatively most important, that of Social Security and pensions. The budget for 2022 will allow us to effectively implement the reform that is now in parliamentary procedure. It guarantees, once and for all, the purchasing power of all pensioners, but not only will it allow us to guarantee pensions, but it will strengthen the protective action of Social Security in various dimensions. Of the total budget, almost EUR 15 billion will be allocated to contributory pensions, another EUR 2600 to non-contributory pensions, and nearly EUR 18 billion will cover staff pensions, so-called passive classes. In essence, what these numbers do is transmit certainty and security to all our pensioners. For the first time in a decade our pensioners will see how their pensions are revalued thanks to a clear and transparent formula according to the CPI. We thus implement the second recommendation of the Toledo Pact adopted almost unanimously by this House about a year ago. This recommendation required the guarantee by law of the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensioners and, I read in text, presented the annual revaluation of pensions on the basis of the actual CPI as the mechanism to be used to preserve this purchasing power. With these budgets, we also strengthen the solidarity dimension of our pension system by improving, in relative terms, the lowest pensions. Our pension system must preserve the principle of contributoryness, but it must also be able to reduce differences in living conditions and therefore maintain a redistributive dimension. That is why minimum and non-contributory pensions will rise more than inflation, in particular by 3%, because we are convinced that recovery must reach everyone and especially those who have to live on lower incomes. The protection measures during the pandemic have enabled us to overcome the level of employment we had in February 2020 a few months ago, so that even the previous trend of membership is being resumed. This intense job recovery is already clear in the Social Security accounts and will continue to do so next year. In this year, in 2021, we will end up with higher social security contribution income than we had in 2019, and in 2022 we will have 10% more contribution income than then. Just today the European Commission has assessed the government's budget plan for 2022 and, in addition to highlighting the rigour with which these budgets have been drawn up, it has rightly stressed this point, that revenues go extraordinarily well and far beyond the expectations of the European Commission itself, which reflects the intensity of the economic recovery on which we are based. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, and in compliance also with what you approved by an overwhelming majority a year ago in this House, the budgets of 2022 give a new and fundamental step towards the completion of the process of separating social security sources. Pursuant to the first recommendation of the Toledo Pact, the State will contribute 18.4 billion euros to finance the non-contributory policies of Social Security, so-called inappropriate expenses, which will significantly reduce the deficit, and will serve to give a more reliable picture of the state of the accounts in our pension system. I have repeated this many times, in the face of those who regard as cosmetic the separation of sources, for this government the culmination of the transfer of expenses proper to the system that will take place at the end of the full legislature is fundamental to bring certainty to our present and future pensioners. For various reasons for decades, social security budgets have been overburdened with expenditure that does not correspond to them; this is how the Reserve Fund is emptied and the emergence of an accounting deficit in the Social Security accounts, when the contributory system is actually basically in equilibrium, is explained. I would like to thank all the groups who identified this problem and therefore included it in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Also in the area of pensions, the Ministry of Inclusion will devote EUR 884 million to combating the gender gap, with a supplement approved by you in the same February of this year of greater scope and much more redistributive power than the maternity supplement to which it replaces. The new supplement, which has received more than 75 000 people on the November payroll - 96% of them are women - corrects the legal problems of the previous mechanism and, more importantly, eliminates its regressive elements and is recognised from the first child, which is the moment when, according to all empirical evidence, the gender gap in employment careers begins to widen, resulting in systematically lower pensions for women. Twenty per cent of the beneficiaries in this month of November, and nearly 15 000 women, today receive this benefit in the form of an additional pension because they had only one child, a situation in which they were not covered in the previous model. This government, ladies and gentlemen, also wants to promote co-responsibility in raising children. That is why we dedicated 29 billion euros in 2022 to the child birth and child care allowance. Like this year, both parents will have sixteen weeks of benefit each, and will be able to split their permits to adapt them to the needs of each family. This policy puts us at the forefront of Europe in equality, reconciliation and co-responsibility policies. It is a central measure to protect children in their first months of life, their mothers and parents, and to help bridge the unacceptable gender gap created by the unequal sharing of family responsibilities between men and women. Secondly, the 2022 budget also includes more than EUR 3 billion for minimum living income and inclusion policies. This will be strengthened as the most appropriate central tool to combat child poverty through the implementation of the child support complement, increasing the redistributive power of the mechanism. The minimum living income, already reaching around 400,000 households, with almost 900,000 people, will continue to be deployed throughout the national territory, with a 3% increase in its amounts, the same increase as the minimum and non-contributory pensions. Our goal is to reach the greatest number of vulnerable households and, to that end, we are putting in place new measures to reach them. Within a few days, the third sector of social action will join the municipal social services in accrediting special situations of vulnerable people, and will help to reach households where the minimum living income has not been reached so far. We will also continue to deploy innovative tools to incorporate other potential beneficiaries who have not yet applied for minimum living income. In addition, minimum living income, which has always had the fight against child poverty as one of its main objectives, will reinforce its impact among children with the new complement of child support. This supplement involves the establishment of additional support per child with thresholds higher than those of the minimum living income, i.e. they will be able to access it not only those who already receive or qualify for the IMV, but also low-income households, but which exceed to a certain level the levels of access of the minimum living income. All these households will receive additional support for each child, consisting of 100 euros per month for each child between 0 and 3 years, 70 euros for each child between 3 and 6 years and 50 euros for each child between 6 and 18 years. Ladies and gentlemen, minimum living income is also an innovative, cutting-edge benefit. To improve our knowledge of the most effective inclusion strategies, various conventions, some already signed, will be deployed in 2022 to launch and evaluate different inclusion routes. Together with autonomous administrations, local authorities and entities in the third sector of social action, we are already developing some pilot projects which, in the field of education, digitisation or access to housing, will allow us to know what types of interventions work best in order to be able to scale them up to more beneficiaries in the future. Families with children, with special attention to single-parent families, long-term unemployed and poor workers, the most disadvantaged groups, ultimately the most vulnerable, are a priority in the commitment to the inclusion of this ministry. Finally, but not least, our ministry's budget has an important boost in migration. We will strengthen our capacity for international reception and protection, and we will put in place a new system of social consultation that allows us to manage resources more easily, efficiently and flexibly. Good management of migration, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolute priority for this Government. This was demonstrated when we had to put our reception system in place in record time to facilitate the evacuation of families from Afghanistan last summer. The system continues to work day by day for our collaborators and their families from Afghanistan to rebuild their lives among us. The migration area will have 634 million euros in the 2022 budget, 17% more than the one to be implemented this year. This amount will enable us to strengthen the capacity of our reception system through new centres of our own, solving a deficit that made management especially rigid and complicated. We will dedicate EUR 55 million next year to the development of new resources throughout the territory, which will allow us a more agile management and more adapted to the new migration reality. It is also our commitment that these investments contribute to social and economic dynamism in areas affected by depopulation. The budgets of 2022 will also allow us to make another important improvement in our management, by being able to move from the current framework based on grants to another centered on the social concert. This will allow us to have a closer and more stable link with third-sector partners, to be able to develop medium- and long-term strategies and ultimately to improve the governance of the system. In addition, in 2022, the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration will redouble its commitment to areas of the country under increased migratory pressure. Ladies and gentlemen, these 2022 budgets will be fundamental to some of the reforms we have been working on for many months, as we committed ourselves at the beginning of the parliamentary term. These budgets will enable us to implement the modernisation of the pension system under way in Parliament. This will ensure the purchasing power of our pensioners forever and strengthen the sustainability of the system with a more modern and equitable model. In addition, it will strengthen minimum vital income as the most powerful tool for combating poverty, with a special focus on children, through the deployment of inclusion routes. Finally, in the field of migration, we will be able to strengthen the system of reception and international protection, with the implementation of new places of our own and with better management when implementing the new model based on the social concert. Ultimately, these budgets will enable us to improve the lives of pensioners, workers and their families, vulnerable households and migrants. These are budgets designed to make our country more fair, to make our citizens better protected and, ultimately, to bring recovery and progress to all citizens. Budgets set these priorities because it is the society to which we aspire. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u218	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] Isn't Mr Boadella in the Chamber? [[Pause]] We'll move on to the next intervener. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u219	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament for Cadiz, first of all I have to send a message of support to my province right now. During these days we are seeing tremendous images in the media. Cadiz is a province dreamt of by many. Some say it's a paradise, and it's true. You know why? Because we have built it with the effort and hands of all the Gadites and all the Gadites, but now more than ever we need all united to make an effort for it. We can't just stand there and look at the horizon. The streets of the Bay of Cadiz and the Field of Gibraltar do not need tanks or strikes, they need cars full of Gaditans and Gaditans going to work. The good people in the province of Cadiz want to work. There is a need for a concrete plan for the Cadiz industry that this Government rejects. The interests of the workers and the interests of the companies are the interests of the province of Cadiz. We wish and long for a good agreement to be reached. [[Applauds]] Minister, we are seeing each other again, and the worst is that everything is worse than last year where we were in this very debate on the state budgets. Then you said without hesitation that in the 2021 budgets the minimum living income would move completely to eradicate extreme poverty. Well, Minister, according to Caritas, in Spain there are six million people in severe poverty, 50% more than in 2018. In the area of migration, you too committed yourself to deploying a new management model in line with our country and to reducing irregular immigration into Spain. Minister, as we have been doing this year, irregular migration has increased by 51% over 2020, which in itself has already been chaotic. The truth is that you have as manager and foresight what I have as a communist, absolutely nothing. And in Social Security, to guarantee pensions, their occurrence is to raise contributions to workers, businesses and self-employed, a tax on employment. How do you expect us, the People's Party, to support this? We told him and repeated it again: The management that his ministry has carried out with regard to minimum living income has been a real shambles. And it will not be because there is no need to process the minimum living income, because poverty continues to increase in this country. There is an equation that the truth is that it never fails: PSOE is equal to crisis and is equal to poverty. With a left-wing government there are many people who suffer poverty in this country. But what does your ministry do before it? Deny three out of four applications. My parliamentary group said this very well through the spokesman Teresa Angulo: They have not had the experience of the autonomous communities or the municipalities, which have been managing similar services for years, nor have they responded to any of the proposals we have put forward to them from the People's Party. We are very clear about the objectives that minimum living income must have, such as employment integration, and we have raised this by amending these budgets and we will demonstrate it under a government chaired by Pablo Casado. [[Applauds]] And who was going to tell us that Mr. Escrivá was going to be the minister who will transfer the minimum living income to the Basque Country and Navarre? The state character of this benefit is lost, which you so presume, and, most seriously, deepens in inequality and discrimination between the Spaniards, with which we cannot agree from the People's Party. Minister, the Castilian-Manchegoes, the Valencians, the Galicians or the Andalusians do not want to be more than anyone but we do not want to be less than anyone. [[Applauds]] With this transfer that is contemplated in the budgets, the equality between Spaniards is broken and the break of the unity of the social security system, emblem of our welfare state, begins. They will be able to veto our amendments, but they will not be able to veto our draft government for a better Spain or the wishes of Spanish society to end this government and start a new stage of illusion and recovery with President Casado. This will also restore common sense in this country's migration policy. They assume in their budgets a significant increase in public expenditure on the recruitment of staff in the setting up of new immigration reception centres. For what? Minister, did you not say that irregular migration would be reduced in Spain? Didn't the President of the Government inform this House in his appearance on the occasion of the last European Council of the commitment to bet only on regular migration? If so, for what new immigration reception centres? Señor Escriva, I congratulate you: You are already as your boss, a compulsive liar. [[Applauds]] Her migration policy we know and know all of Spain: roles for all, with the resulting effect called. They have been doing so since they entered the Government, demonstrated it with last year's budgets and consolidated it with this draft budgets. We are not going to support these budgets of the Socialist Party, which are committed to irregular migration, in the face of regular, orderly and labour-oriented migration that defends not only the People's Party, but the sensible majority of this country. It is an irregular migration that continues to increase with this Government and with it also the business of the mafias who traffic with people, as well as the deaths. This year 2021 is the most lethal in the field of migration in Spain, they have already died as a result of irregular migration 1025 people, double that last year. Do something, Minister, the coasts of our country dawn every morning with corpses of people. How can he remain impassable? How can you not stop these human tragedies? We will continue to defend regular migration with our amendments, as well as a fund to help municipalities and autonomous communities that are under increased migratory pressure. Why don't you agree to this? I keep it: In immigration policy, this government makes its own the popular saying that I invite and you pay. In short, Mr Escrivá, this parliamentary group has programmes, has proposals, has a sense of state and has common sense, and we have moved it with each of our amendments in this section. If you accept them and vote in favour, correct them; and it is proven that only succeeds and wins Spain when you rectify them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u220	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u221	Thank you, President. Minister, we'll see each other again after last week at the Toledo Pact Commission. I regret to repeat here what I have been saying these days, that these budgets are full of obsolete forecasts and unrealistic revenues and are also plagued by ideological and contradictory vetoes. But for contradictions, minister, yours. When you were president of the AIReF you were saying things like that the non-wage labour costs of Spain are among the highest in the European Union, but now, as a minister, you are trying to get us to the contrary. But it is also that as a minister you also have different versions. We have the version of July and we have the version of November. You are able to say in July things like this: 'We already have very high quotes and higher than most of our surroundings'. That is what you said at the hearing of the Toledo Pact. Just four months later, now, in November, he decided to raise social contributions, and last Thursday he told us: 'In Spain social contributions are clearly in the rank of the lowest countries and a huge distance from the central countries of Europe with which we compete'. Moreover, Minister, you are able to contradict yourself within the same week. On Monday in the interview of the SER said one thing and the contrary on Thursday in the appearance in the Commission of the Pact of Toledo. I don't know what we're left with, if the quotes are too high or low. I don't know what Mr.Written I'm staying with, whether with the July Escrivá or the November Escrivá, or with the President of the AIReF or with the Minister Escrivá. Either you have serious lapses or you are not telling the Spanish the truth, because Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with the greatest burden of contributions and taxes on work, and you know it. I told you the other day: The only reason this huge burden of contributions is not reflected in total labour costs is because we have very low wages, which are the result of high time and low productivity. On the subject of this, I would like to say that I have already told Vice-President Calviño that this has been arranged: fewer contracts, less time and use European funds to implement the Austrian backpack. I know he doesn't like what I'm saying to him, but he doesn't say it Citizens, Alain Cuenca tells him, who is little suspected of being related to my party, in a Funcas report from 2019: 'Spain stands out for having a high level of contributions. It would be in the group of countries where contribution income represents a high level, more than 35% in the tax pressure numerator.' The same report, Minister, talks about the need to reduce the social contributions borne by Spanish employers in order to reduce the cost of the labour factor and thus increase employment, and concludes by saying: 'Reducing the unemployment rate significantly is only possible with a strong reduction in the rates of contributions, five reduction points would lead to a fall of 2.5% in the unemployment rate'. Minister, you know that the best social policy is to create quality jobs, so here you have a proposal from someone from your own political family. I'm going to read you an appointment, see if I can convince you: 'It would be a gesture from the pensioners to accept a reduction in their nominal pensions next year, it would also be consistent with the maintenance of their purchasing power. If they are not reduced, the purchasing power of pensioners will once again be increased in an environment of sharp falls in the real incomes of active workers.' He goes on to say: 'The moment requires an open debate. The pandemic has once again hit young people hard and, if anyone doubted it before, it is now clear: if we maintain the pace of absorption of public resources towards the unaltered pension system, we will have to take more drastic measures in the next decade, whose costs will be concentrated on some cohorts, rather than distributing them over time.' Do you know who said this, minister? Gonzalo García Andrés, the Secretary of State for Economics, just the month before being appointed Secretary of State for Economics, when he was an independent economist. The problem of his ministry is not only about the decisions that are made in public policies, but about their execution, and there is no better example than failure in minimum living income. From Citizens we consider it essential to guarantee the well-being of families in severe poverty the minimum living income, and I say it again: It is not reaching even half of the families that was planned. Furthermore, it is incomprehensible that 50% of the budget allocated has not been implemented and that you do not want to improve it, because you veto our amendments, you have vetoed all our amendments. And they also veto our proposal to help the most vulnerable groups in society, the homeless: Amendment 60. From Citizens we are committed to a comprehensive national strategy for the homeless because we consider it vital to develop comprehensive work with people who are in this situation and who deserve our greatest effort to overcome the barriers they face and to develop a dignified life. Nor do they want to support people with disabilities by vetoing the increase in bonuses in training and learning contracts for people with disabilities: amendment 61. Nor at this very difficult time do they want to bet on extending the special unemployment benefit to all those who had lost their jobs during the pandemic and still do not recover it. You were not going to leave anyone behind, you said, but neither do you support the deduction for domestic service, to encourage the recruitment of a vulnerable and mostly female professional sector: Amendment 271. Nor do they support the adoption of tax measures in the area of PRTI in unpopulated areas: Amendment 301. In the area of employment, they do not want to take into account vulnerable sectors, such as self-employed people, for whom we are asking for a reduced quota in Amendment No 293.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u222	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u223	I say to you, Minister, that if you have no ideas, or it gives you laziness to think about them, in favour of the workers, the young and the self-employed, accept what we propose from Citizens. We give them to them tastefully for the good of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u224	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u225	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Nor do I want to miss the opportunity to request the resignation of Pablo Casado for his attendance at a mass in honor of the dictator. If he did not realize what kind of mass he attended, he demonstrated a level of stupidity unworthy of the opposition leader. And if he was conscious and now lies, he shows a lack of attachment to democracy and unbearable memory for our country. We now consider section 32, where migration consignments are improved. They go up to EUR 176 million, which corresponds to the commitment to strengthen a state network of international care and protection centres and to implement a concerted model of action during 2022. In this regard, an amount of EUR 60 million is introduced for the asylum-seekers' reception system, which is insufficient, but which improves the current allocation and therefore the efficiency of the system and its capacity. In addition to all chapters, we find an increase of EUR 2 billion for migration. In section 60, the bulk of the programmes remain stable or improve. Among the most notable increases is clearly the dependency, which goes from 2353 million to 2090 million, almost 550 million euros more. Is that enough? No, but the accumulation between the current budget and this project leaves no doubt in this case about the importance this Government attaches to dependence; we are certainly on the right track. The same applies to minimum living income, which rises to about EUR 3 billion. But here's a warning, minister: Of the 2728 million foreseen in the 2021 heading, in the absence of three months before the end of the year only 1402 million had been executed and that is serious because more than a million and a half applications were processed and we are talking about people without income or with very low income, families to the limit of their abilities and who therefore need this right; and see that I say right and not help, because it is very important that it works well. Basically, we play the quality of our democracy, because without income there is no freedom that is worth it. In Social Security, expenditure on contributory pensions increases, but care must be taken to see how much of that expenditure corresponds to new pensioners and how much to the increase in the amount of pensions. I say this basically by vultures, in this case of fear, those who distort the information or directly lie to justify proposals as far away from reality as the Austrian backpack or the increase in the period of calculation for the calculation of pensions, proposed which, by the way, is neither part of this budget nor of the pension decree, and so on. Recovery and resilience funds are also used to modernize and advance the digitization of the Social Security Administration. We agree, but, minister, that can't be to the detriment of the workforce of social security workers or of face-to-face. There is a digital divide that is generational but also classy and we must work to make digitization an ally of the modernization of the system, and not a difficulty for the access of thousands of people. The MEI recognizes that the pressure that the system will receive for the retirement of baby boomers is a timely, not structural fact, and we applaud in this case that the response is cyclical, that it acts on income, to strengthen basically solidarity, and be balanced, because, I see - we have said it - the same does not always mean fair, because the relationship between workers and entrepreneurs is intrinsically unequal, so it is fair to basically recognize this difference and to cut it. The planned collection, the result of the increase in contributions, goes up by 2021, but, minister, you know that is not enough. That is why we want to talk about taxation, the modification of the RETA and the unveiling of the maximum contribution base, so that those who have more income contribute more. In fact, the existing budgets already advanced in social guarantees: revaluation of contributory pensions with the CPI, revaluation of non-contributory pensions at twice that rate or the 5% increase in IPREM. All this is consolidated and improved in this draft budget. The Government does not turn its back on pensioners who are in a more vulnerable situation and improves the protection of lower social benefits, which are, by the way, mostly received by women. The purchasing power of minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions is increased by 3% and more than 2%, and IPREM, on which many social benefits and benefits depend, is increased by 2.5%. Basically, their increase will allow many more people to access the benefits and make them better, but we still have a lot left. The People's Party has put this very important index in the freezer for years and we have a long way to go to fully recover the loss of purchasing capacity that the People's Party also caused here. But if we talk about pensions, we talk about work, because it is the heart of Social Security, and precarious jobs are precarious contributions and therefore generate poverty pensions. It will be of no use for us to regulate the Spanish labour market with European funds if what we are watering is basically temporary and precarious work. To achieve pensions and decent lives, we must adopt new legislation that abandons precariousness and low wages. So a message for the patriots of the bracelet: stop putting fear and lying, that you see the plumber, and if you worry about Social Security, the dignity and the sufficiency of pensions, you will have a great opportunity to vote for a new job reform, and there I want to see you. [[Applauds]] I want to end up addressing the boss. The working class in this country has made a spectacular effort during the pandemic to pay, basically, with public funds for the maintenance of companies and their wage responsibilities. We've paid for it among all of us. They should be ashamed of the employer, after all they have experienced, when in the face of the demand for solidarity and justice, he tells us that recovery does not go with them. They are making their own the revolution of the golf clubs of Núñez de Balboa and it is shameful. And that goes for pensions, for all the agreements that are blocking and, of course, for Cadiz metal workers. There is a thread that unites the United States, China, the United Kingdom and Spain and that thread is the mobilization of the working class. The workers say loud and clear that so far, that we are no longer worth any job and not even any salary, that we want to live decently and that we want to discuss how we distribute the wealth we generate with our effort, and that is what is happening in Cadiz. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, an annoying strike is what it has, but, of course, it takes because it is the only tool that we workers have to achieve what the employer denies, in this case, from its position of strength. Denying the revaluation of wages is violence; throwing us on the street without any causality and for four hard ones is violence. All our support - with this I conclude, President - for the metal workers of Cadiz and, of course, outside the tanks of the neighborhoods, because - listen well - the success of these mobilizations also depends on our pensions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u226	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u227	Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u228	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u229	Do you know that there are Spaniards who use the most applications not Twitter or Instagram, but that of the bank and the calculator? Do you know that there are mothers who lie down crying because they don't know if they can give their child something to eat the next day? Do you know that there are grandparents who take part in your pension so that their children and grandchildren can lead a more dignified life? Do you know that there are families who sacrifice themselves working all they can to take their lives forward? I do not think so, Minister, because, if not, you do not present these accounts. It always fills their mouths talking about the public. Whenever you come up here, Mrs. Montero comes to tell us that they defend tax collection so that we can all save ourselves, for the public. The public is a wonderful invention, but for you it's just a wonderful excuse. [[Applauds]] You confuse public spending, which is to allocate resources for everyone to sustain and improve the lives of the Spaniards, with political spending, which is to create client networks, to adopt, to place activists, to ideologize the administrations of the State or, as Mr Errejón very pompously said, to create popular institutions in which to take refuge when he rules the adversary. [[Applauds]] In case you do not understand the distinction, I will give you several examples. Public spending is increasing police in the most insecure neighborhoods so that our children and older people don't get scared; political spending is spending millions on putting purple lights in the police stations. Public expenditure is to increase the budget to reindustrialise Spain; political expenditure is the 61 million that you, Minister, will spend on modernising the reception system for immigrants. Public expenditure is organ transplants; political expenditure is subsidies to NGOs and human trafficking mafias. And public spending is from Spain, not Angola. As long as there's only one worker having a bad time in Cadiz, in the Canary Islands or wherever they are, they don't have a right, you don't have the right to spend the state's money on putting a hotel in a Moroccan that just arrived. [[Applauds]] You have no right. You do not have the right to allocate 50 million in a special fund to host immigrants in the Canary Islands when you have put the evacuees of La Palma in polysports, when the islands have a 16% severe poverty and huge youth unemployment rates. You do not have the right to subsidise and allocate EUR 634 million to mass immigration in order to undermine working conditions, to throw wages on the ground, to prostitute humble neighborhoods and to make unfair competition to our small traders, that is, anything but strengthen the public, the common; the public and the common of Spain and the Spanish, not Mauritania. [[Applauds]] If public spending were to abound in these budgets, they would be General State Budgets, but as abounding is political spending, they are the general misappropriation of the State and we do not know which State. You do all this because you only know how to be the butlers of those who share the cake. You are the ones who ensure that our people do not prosper, who put an anchor on their feet so that they cannot go up and, above all, you are the ones who take care that no one moves even a millimeter from the multicultural fold so that everything is at the liking of their masters, who are not the Spaniards because you do not know how to serve them. Here is a total consensus. From the People's Party to Podemos, from the antifas to the leaders of the big multinationals, from the big tech to the Open Arms, from the editorials of the media at the salary of the government and of the opposition to the trade unions sucklers and the bosses, all are to which he jumps to scold the one who disagrees, to stigmatize the one who wants to defend the people and sing the nonexistent goodness of the migratory avalanche. [[Rumors]] Don't worry, gentlemen of the PP. [[Applauds]] For too long the left has maintained the fiction that it defended the workers, but it is increasingly evident that its famous social shield is nothing more than a spear in the hearts of the self-employed, the pensioners, the farmers, the industrial workers and the families. We have seen it perfectly this week with the treatment of metal workers in Cadiz. The recipe of Marlaska and Yolanda Díaz for them is just abandonment, deindustrialization and gagging. But the joke has already lasted too long. We have come here to unmask them, to take from the ground the flags that you have trampled and to fight for our people, to control your work at the service of the powerful. We are here, in short, to present the Spaniards as they truly are, traitors to the people and their nation. [[Applauds]] Because only traitors can increase immigration spending by 17% by spending hundreds of millions; only traitors can put red carpet in Ceuta and a tank in Cadiz; only traitors can make their people pay for the invasion they are suffering, because only traitors can look elsewhere at insecurity and the increase in sexual violence on our streets, the destruction of our society and the degradation of our neighbourhoods. But all their solidarity is a huge lie, it's a huge hypocrisy, it's the huge business of a handful of powerful people who need slave labour in Europe for the maintenance of their capitals. All your solidarity is an order of the World Bank, of the Davos Forum, and all your solidarity generates lower wages, worse working conditions, weakening the welfare state and lack of support for those who need it most. All your solidarity is service to those above and betrayal to those below. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u230	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u231	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more than 850,000 beneficiaries, 320,000 under the age of 18; more than 350,000 protected households, 55% with minors in charge and 65% with women's faces. This is the balance sheet of the first year of deployment of minimum vital income. [[Applauds]] This is the presentation card for a benefit that was launched at the worst time in this country's history, in the midst of an unprecedented global pandemic. It was a measure with a clear objective: to combat severe poverty and, in particular, to combat the worst of poverty, child poverty. A year later, Minister, we are presented with budgets for the year 2022, where we see how the Government's commitment to combating poverty and social exclusion remains intact by increasing the minimum living income by 3% and expanding the coverage of it, since with this addition to aid we can reach help for children and we can reach not only those families in extreme poverty but also those who are in severe poverty. Coverage is also extended to other particularly vulnerable groups, such as extolled young people, or a 22% increase for people with a disability greater than 65% or for'monomarental' families. These Budgets will allow us to deploy very important policies for inclusion, with a budget of 112 million euros to launch the inclusion routes, those that guarantee the people benefiting from the IMV not only enter the labour market, but also generate capacities to be able to enter, because they guarantee their economic rights, yes, but also guaranteeing a perspective of future and training. This was precisely one of the new developments of this benefit, to be able to break the vicious circle of poverty, with a clearly redistributive character, unlike the income of the autonomous communities. Minister, every time you come here, there is a lot of criticism of the IMV, as you have noticed, but do you know why? Because thanks to a progressive government, there is a vital minimum income in this country today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the right, I ask you to add to the budgets of recovery, to abandon that dark side that you have come to tell here, on which nothing works, on which everything goes wrong. Or has poverty in this country been brought by the pandemic? What did you do in your years of government, with all the indicators from the European Union and international bodies demanding a minimum living income? What did you do? In addition to these recovery budgets, they are still in time to amend everything they did not do when they were in the Government, they are still in time. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the shock we have suffered in this country with the pandemic, that the poverty rate could rise is somewhat reasonable. But do you know what the right question would be? What would have happened in the absence of public policies such as those launched by this Government? And I'm not just talking about the IMV, I'm talking about all the income protection that's been done. Or for you to understand me in another way...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u232	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u233	I'm done, President. What would have happened if you had been ruling? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u234	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Diouf Dioh has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u235	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, another year we can say that with this draft general budget of the coalition government there is an inclusive policy on migration, working within and outside our borders, as a result of coordination with the various ministerial departments: meeting with the MED5 and the Ministry of the Interior; Afghanistan, with our Armed Forces, coordination of defence and foreign affairs; more reception and integration policy places, the Ministry of Inclusion, and the President of the Government in Europe defending Spain's recovery plan to overcome this global crisis with a government that really, colleagues, is advancing. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we govern this country and do so with responsibility and commitment, with and for the citizens. For the second year, we present budgets, according to budgetary stability, sustainable and transparent, which aim to make better use of public funds, which increase the budget of this State Secretariat and the Ministry by 17% more than the previous year and with 634 million euros. That means voting yes so that asylum-seekers, asylum-seekers and international protection-seekers can re-establish their lives, such as those evacuated from Afghanistan; voting yes to entities managing humanitarian aid; voting yes to the compromise, with more than two million Spaniards abroad. To vote yes is to sign international agreements with the countries in our environment, to vote yes is to support the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla and all the regions that are hosting girls and boys, women and men on our shores fleeing from violence and climate change. [[Applauds]] Because with our policies we respond to the runaway effect. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not suffering from an invasion of migration, Spain is suffering within this House and in these institutional spaces, with the lever of the People's Party, an invasion of the racist and xenophobic discourse of VOX. [[Applauds]] When Mrs. De Mer called the humble working-class neighbourhoods of El Raval and Lavapiés multicultural stercoleros, and yesterday Mrs. Olona said that in her DNA there is authority, law and order, I wonder: what do they want and what do they want? What does VOX want and what do you want? Clean up these neighborhoods. How? Remember, in Europe it was cleaned up, in Nazi Germany. [[Applauds]] Result: six million people were killed. In the former Yugoslavia: 220,000 dead and 2.7 million displaced persons. What's your DNA? Nazi Germany or be Franco's ally? [[Rumors]] Because Torquemada we already have, according to you there are witches and covens...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u237	Do we want coffers as a budget concept? Wake up: 44 years with a different reality. Spain has changed... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u238	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u239	The vote in favour of these budgets will enable us to continue to live in a plural and diverse Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u240	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u241	By Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, in connection with Rule 71 for allusions, I would like to ask for the floor to remind the honourable Member that there are no Nazis in this House, but do you know what there is? There are communists. Do you know...? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u242	One second. If you want to mention something you have said, it seems right to me, but do not open other debates that have nothing to do directly with what has been said. [[Applauds.-Protests]] One second, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. I will give him the floor again for a minute, but, I insist, if he reopens discussions that have nothing to do with what has been said, I will take the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u243	You'll take away my word whenever you want because you're tremendously unbalanced in the way you run this room.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u244	Okay, you don't have the floor. [[Protests]] Sit down. Let's keep going. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.]] Let's continue, ladies and gentlemen. Take it easy and relax that we're going to finish. Section 33, Universities Finally, the debate in section 33, Ministry of Universities. For the presentation of the section, the Minister of Universities has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u245	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, President. Thank you. The budget of the Ministry of Universities corresponds to section 33 of the State General Budgets. The total consolidated budget is €462.89 million. I would like to highlight something important, that only 4% of the budget is for staff and goods and services, that is, 96% is for the university community and their families. From 2020 to 2022 the budget of the Ministry of Universities has increased by 77 %, if we consider European programmes, and without these programmes by 15 %. What do we propose to spend these funds on the 2022 budgets? First, in university teachings for which the ministry is responsible, not what is taught in every public university that depends on the autonomous communities. University education represents 138.7 million, including a substantial increase in the budget for the National University of Distance Education, a university that, as you know, is fundamental in our system and increasingly. For example, it is a university that next week, in December, will start organizing the national nursing test, with 35,000 women candidates to fill the nursing positions that the Government is creating. That could not have been done without the National University of Distance Education. Its budget now stands at 91.3 million. This chapter also includes the co-financing of the European University Programme, through which our universities are interlinked and closely allied with European universities in a number of countries. Secondly, aid to students other than scholarships - which I will see later - in particular the co-financing of the Erasmus Plus programme, which is increasing by 33%, to EUR 40 million. Thirdly, research expenditure, programme 463.A, increased by 9,2 %, which amounts to EUR 114 million. This includes training grants for university professors, which reach 80.8 million, and also Beatriz Galindo grants for attracting talent to Spanish universities, which are increased by 50%. Fourthly, we are going to spend it on recharging and digitizing the Spanish university system. This is done from European funds managed by the Ministry of Universities. The total amount of this European Union financing instrument is EUR 480 million. In the year 2021 will be executed 203.9 million euros, in the year 2022 will be executed 147 million euros and in the year 2023 will be executed 129 million euros. As you can see, we have advanced as far as possible the allocation of these funds to the ministry's budget in order to promote their immediate absorption and making available to universities in order to achieve the fastest possible recovery of these funds. The ministry has already committed almost 100% of the appropriations for these European programmes, not just for the 2021 financial year, but for the entire 2021-2023 period. With regard to European appropriations for 2022, they are incorporated into the budget of the Ministry of Universities through two programmes. The first is the Programme for the training and training of teaching and research staff, with EUR 125 million, to implement the second annuality of aid to public universities, for the call for aid for the retraining of university staff, through three modalities: firstly, the modalities of the aid we call Margarita Salas, to allow young doctors to stay multiannual research in centres of international and national prestige; secondly, the aid we call Maria Zambrano, for the attraction of talent; and thirdly, additional funds for the qualification of university teachers through training outside their own university. As early as April 2021 my ministry has processed the royal decree regulating the direct granting of grants to public universities for the redevelopment of the Spanish university system. Through this mechanism and its grant order, all the credits have already been transferred to the Spanish public universities for the call for aid for a total of EUR 125 million. The grant of the second annuality of EUR 125 million will be processed in 2022. The objective set through these European programmes and committed to Europe is to grant at least 2600 recasting aid up to the end of 2023. I would like to tell you that there has never been such a massive and extensive programme of recasting, focusing above all on recasting in national and international centres, that between one and three years allows our young doctors and university staff as a whole to acquire the highest international excellence. The second programme linked to European funds managed by the Ministry of Universities is the Digital Infrastructure Improvement Programme, equipment, technologies, teaching and evaluation of our universities. In the proposal for the year 2022 it is endowed with 22 million euros. This amount has been transferred to public universities as a second annuality, not all, is the second annuality of the Modernization and Digitalization Plan of the University System, with the aim of increasing its digitalization rate by at least 10% compared to 2019. In this year 2021 the Ministry of Universities has issued another royal decree - last July - regulating the direct granting of grants to Spanish public universities for the modernization and digitization of the university system. Its award order has also brought these grants to universities for an amount of EUR 65.7 million. This programme is co-financed with European funds, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, for an additional 50 million in several years. Fifthly, we maintain in the budget the same funding as in 2021 for cooperation and educational promotion abroad. In addition, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Universities, as your ladies and gentlemen know, has three autonomous bodies essential to the university system, such as the National Agency for the Evaluation of Quality and Accreditation, Aneca, the Menéndez Pelayo International University and the Spanish Service for the Internationalization of Education. The budgets of the three agencies are increasing. [[The lady]] Beyond the budget of the Ministry of Universities, one important issue should be noted within the framework of the Government as a whole. As you know, our ministry manages, together with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, the state scholarship system. Following the comprehensive reform carried out jointly by the two ministries in 2020, applying the programmatic principle that the grant is a subjective duty, the State General Budgets allocate 2,022,219 million to scholarships, i.e. 109 million more than in 2021, the highest amount in history, with a 40% increase over 2020. In the case of university students this has meant that fellow students will double with full scholarship from 2019-2020 to 2020-2021, reaching a total of fellows with total or partial scholarship of 362 783. This is essential, because we know, according to the studies available, that the economic difficulties resulting from the absence of a scholarship are the main cause of the high drop-out from our system, which at the same time is a human waste, above all, and an economic waste. I would also like to point out that 73% of the investments that are programmed in the general budgets for scientific and technical equipment benefit universities because, as you know, they are the main producers of knowledge in our country. I would also like to point out something important concerning the strengthening and rejuvenation of teaching and research staff. The draft Law on General Budgets of the State contains not only numerical statements, but also important provisions that make up its structure. [[The Lord]] I would like to underline one aspect that is essential from a concrete point of view, within our objective of strengthening the teaching and research capacity of universities; namely, it establishes the consideration of teaching and research staff and administrative and service staff as a priority sector. This has a concrete consequence, that the planned replacement rate will pass in the budgets from 2022 to 120 %. In other words, 120 people will be integrated into the university system for every 100 retirements. Thus, according to our forecasts, in the next decade they retired between 30 and 50% - a minimum and a maximum - of teachers and permanent researchers. In that regard, these places should therefore be replenished at a rate of 120. In addition, the same provision in the budgets also allows the accumulation of the replacement rate of one or more sectors or groups, priority or not, to other priority sectors or groups such as universities, the education system in general. In particular - look how important this is - public administrations will be able to assign to universities of their competence and public universities will be able to assign among them fees, quotas of these fees, naturally with the authorization of the public administrations on which they depend. These measures demonstrate our strong commitment in the ministry and in the Government as a whole to rejuvenating teaching and research staff, as well as administrative and service staff, thereby reversing a situation that threatened the sustainability of the system in the coming years. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, the General State Budgets and the budget of the Ministry of Universities within this framework significantly increase public spending and investment in fulfilment of the Government's objectives of a transformation of our educational system which results in a substantial increase in productivity, the economy and, at the same time, a fair recovery that benefits all citizens. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, almost nights, Minister of Universities. The section that this draft Law on General State Budgets for 2022 devotes to the Ministry of Universities accommodates the public accounts to the peculiar and overflowing structure of the blue bank with its twenty-two seats, almost always empty, of which there is also this ministry that perfectly and sufficiently could develop its management through a secretariat of State, as it was done until 2020, without this undermining the efficiency of management. But yours, Mr. Castells, is another quota ministry created to comply with the agreement between PSOE and Unidad Podemos. It should also be borne in mind that the autonomous communities have assumed many of the university competences, although they can barely meet the needs that are required to develop the potential of higher education because they do not have sufficient funding. In this respect, one wonders about Pedro Sánchez's promise to reform the autonomous financing system, which, as is well known, has been left in another fraud, because in the area of support to public universities transfers fall from the order of 29%, which will require the search for ways to collect money in the context of a serious economic crisis affecting society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, no funding model that corrects the shortage with which universities have to work, no rationality in the design of the government. Instead of accompanying the political structure to national priorities and needs, what Mr Sánchez did at the beginning of 2020 was to enable spaces to adjust the domestic distribution of the PSOE-Unidas coalition We can, although this implies increasing unnecessary public spending and it is perceived, as is the case, the evanescent management of Mr Castells at the head of the Ministry of Universities to which this section 33 gives generous but inefficient coverage, with a makeup management based on sharing programs with other ministries that complicate the execution and lead to the loss of resources. The creation of this quota ministry goes hand in hand with the political rinsing that permeates Mr Sánchez's mandate. The investiture was resorted to and the support of the independent, separatist and other partners was now used to overcome parliamentary arithmetic and survive, but in return the structure of the State was altered. Crucial issues are relegated and the Magna Charter is not fulfilled, as the Constitutional Court has ruled in the case of alarm states. Have you, Mr Castells, apologized for the unconstitutional suspension of academic activities for several months? Have you assessed the harm caused to university students by decisions contrary to the law of the Council of Ministers of which you are a member? Ladies and gentlemen, it coincides with the handling of this draft public accounts with the growing response to the inane policy of this ministry. A few weeks ago, the Law of University Coexistence was brought to the General Courts, which already has guasa and descaro that Unidad Podemos, the party that has the patent of the slaves, presents itself as the paladin of university coexistence. Green stuff! Today, with a pernicious legislative balance sheet, you present a series of budget items to advance the draft organic law of the university system, but the rectors just endorsed last week a monumental pumpkin to the ministry, refusing to enter into the perverse game with which it tried to pin on issues outside the great needs of university transformation. The Conference of Rectors has refused to participate in its star project, because they consider it not innovative enough for the level of socio-economic transformation required by Spain. Mr Castells, to come to Congress, in a country with its youth dragged to unemployment and emigration, we must give courage to report on the publication of the expansive accounts for a fair recovery, in the midst of a rectory storm with which it is criticized that the Government does not resolutely address the need for greater autonomy and funding in order to modernize and make universities more competitive. Mr Castells, you and your bench colleagues presume to mobilize the greatest social investment in history and yet the diagnosis of the situation by mouth of the Rectors' Conference is, and I quote literally: 'If you really want Spanish universities to start to rank among the top 100 in the world, it is essential to provide them with specific funding, with a plan to increase public spending specific to university education and in line with the results that are required. Otherwise it would be unfair and absurd,' they finish. Anything to say, Minister? You are not happy with the directors, but neither are the students, who are mobilizing and carrying out academic stops, facing a ministerial management that they consider disappointing and disappointing; the beginning of a continuous cycle of protests is already announced. It must be very frustrating for this Government to advance this situation of growing popular dissatisfaction. Nor are you happy with the opposition, so we can see in the debates that take place both in Congress and in the Senate. Who's happy, then? So let's check it out in a moment at the polls: PSOE, Podemos and their usual support in this XIV Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I tabled a complete amendment to the draft budget law because I consider it very harmful for the future of Spain that the Sánchez Government should continue with a task of gradual institutional demolition. Undoubtedly, one of the main pillars for the modernization of our country depends on the quality of university education. However, the quality improvement objective is not being met. The university climate is increasing, the bureaucracy suffocates the organization and the daily activity, the Spanish society and the productive fabric continue without taking full advantage of the colossal flow that emerges from the universities. Mr Castells, in your first appearance you stated in this House that yours is not a ministry of universities, but for universities. The Government has not complied with this, either as a matter of fact. These public accounts for 2022 certify the erratic path in a capital matter for Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u248	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u249	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I recognize you that after you met yesterday the budgetary pact with Esquerra you don't know what to say at this time. I don't know because we could almost say that we are fellow travellers on this painful adventure: you with your laws in regulating your ministry things, and a server with your amendments, the Citizens' amendments in this section 33 of Universities. I'm telling you, we're almost partners because the same has happened to us, both you and me. I have been vetoed or denied - to my group, to Citizens - absolutely all the amendments we have tabled in this section. We have been denied the recovery of the Seneca scholarships, the same scholarships that, in order to promote the mobility of Spanish university students between universities in our country, the former minister, Pedro Duque, undertook to recover. He also pledged to recover them after having disappeared in 2013, suppressed by Minister Wert of the People's Party, after twenty-one years of existence. That took away the System of Exchange between Spanish University Centers, the famous Sicue. So, in the face of the cuts of the People's Party in 2013, you now come and keep the same cut, when you announced precisely your recovery in 2019, and also in the same amount, in 2 million euros, which was the one proposing our amendment that you have vetoed. We have also been rejected by other amendments in which we propose to invest up to EUR 8 million, 2 for each initiative, with four amendments. One for the creation of a public employment web portal for teaching and research staff; another for the creation of a scholarship web portal available in all universities and in all autonomous communities; another for a serious study of the current situation of supply and demand in the degrees available and on the possibilities of employment according to the studies studied; and one for the improvement of digital infrastructures, equipment, technology, teaching and digital evaluation. These rejections are also due, according to the Government, to the fact that these projects cannot be financed with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism; a mechanism so opaque that there are no criteria for knowing what you are going to finance when proposals and initiatives are presented. Sure, so it's easy that then, a posteriori, you can, perfectly, when you want and as you want, reject them. That's called transparency. Gentlemen of VOX, by the way, this is thanks to you. You have allowed and supported Mr Sánchez to have hands-free to spend European funds without any kind of control. We'll remember from time to time. Mr. Castells, that's why I'm telling you that we're both almost going to tell each other the feathers at the bar, because, man, what they've done to you doesn't have a name either. You veto us and Esquerra veto you. You came with a bill from a university system to which you have already changed the text twice along the way. That LOS project has been changed twice, and the reforms and revolutions you originally proposed have been left in small reforms and in no revolution. With the Law of University Coexistence - as Mr Martínez Oblanca has told you - you came to repeal a decree of 1954, which no one had proposed to pose a problem because it did not apply, is a text that has now imposed on you Esquerra, which has been approved in the Commission with full legislative competence. Your program or your priority project in mediation in cases of conflict has remained in nothing because you now want - by the text of Esquerra, who seems to be the real minister of universities - to give a sheriff star to the rectors to do what they want in their universities. Evidently, what Esquerra is looking for are spaces of impunity, especially in Catalan universities, so that the constitutionalists continue to be harassed and their rights overrun, as we have seen with the young people of S'ha Afinat! You want a new space, or Esquerra wants a new space of impunity, with the withdrawal of the State, in this case, of what are cathedrals of ideas, cathedrals of words, which are universities. You were not happy with spying on the language spoken by the children in the courtyards of the schools, now you also commit this misdeed at the university and, moreover, with your complicity, Minister. I do complain, Citizens complain, that we have been vetoed and denied all our amendments, but I do not want to think about what you will be doing with what you have done, withdrawing the authorship of all your projects. In addition, they send you here to defend a budget, the budget of your ministry, when it really has nothing to do with what you as a minister proposed. We have seen you, however, do things as unorthodox as you acknowledge a year ago that being a minister is not your thing, or when you first said when you arrived at the ministry it was necessary to criticize, precisely, the separation between universities and science and innovation. That is why I tell you that I really don't know who I have to fight with, if it's with you, if it's with the government or if it's with the Republican Left. Of course, the teachers and researchers, the students and the university administration staff in the university centres are the ones who I believe are being none at all. In addition, you have gone from invisibility as a minister to absolutely pissing off all the staff of the university community. You just have to look at what's already going on on the street. You're angry with the entire university community. If having to defend a budget to finance other people's projects already has something strange, I think what you shouldn't do is go this way of having to implement it, in policies that are not your own. Don't sell your dignity this way. Maybe it's better to leave him now that he's in time, because if it wasn't his thing when he started, now it's all gone to worse. In any case, we will continue to insist on improving the management of the Spanish university, even with some of the initiatives that you, when you came from California, raised and seemed very interesting to us. Apparently, all these initiatives have disappeared and are no longer their government program, they are now the government program of other parties, in this case Republican Left. Their proposals have been jibarized by the narrow focus of their nationalist partners. Mr. Castells, we are both, but I think you more than me, in a curious situation of: Ja, ja, what happened? But in view of the confusion in your management, I think the problem is that here the minister is you, I am only in an opposition party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u250	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u251	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good night. 20 February 2020: The only justification for our existence is what we can do for universities. The task of this ministry is to be a ministry for universities. Manuel Castells. 21 October 2021: We have an exemplary responsibility to overcome unnecessary confrontation and to discuss our legitimate disagreements. On the previous day, 20 October, groups supporting the Government secretly signed the betrayal of university students, using the Spanish university as a currency for the exchange of budgets and time for the Government. It is the thirty silver coins you paid before attending the pantomime of your call to exemplaryness in the debate of the whole of the Law of coexistence, asking for a responsibility that you had not had, the one that this group exercised by warning everyone what would happen if it went ahead with the process of law without waiting for the opportune moment and introducing respectful and constructive amendments. Life upside down, ladies and gentlemen. Again, we were right, although its spokesmen will then come to shake the past, always the past, the only speech in which they feel comfortable, the only time they know how to conjugate, in which the others are always the culprits, especially the PP. Minister, they don't dialogue, they don't debate, they don't listen. They have been wrong in their priorities, they do not know what to do with universities, but they come to give us lessons to try to cover up their own shortcomings and incompetences. We told him, using the flag of university autonomy to consummate the rupture of the system makes no sense and then they do not defend them in the science system, of which they are majority partners, but those they ignore. Not once yesterday did the Minister of Science and Secretary of Science and Universities speak the word university or university researchers in the executive of the PSOE. As my colleague, Pedro Navarro, put it, in that ministry it is a continuous beginning, as in those series B films, where the protagonist again and again lives the same Christmas day. The budgetary imbalance between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Universities is scandalous; the criterion of distribution of recovery funds between the two, unjustifiable and, worst of all, the inability and slowness to implement the budget have even raised the voice of European officials. The funds evaporate unused. We have asked them again and again and they continue to consent to abuse of the university system, in training, research, innovation and transfer. The more than 125,000 faculty and academic staff do not exist. The FPU predoctoral contractors, who are not fellows, Mr Cendón - not fellows - are a nuisance and the 27,000 members of the research staff exclusively at the university an anecdote for Morán and for you. [[shows a document]] This is being away from the needs of the university. You, Minister, have preferred to turn yourself in to the 13 Members of Esquerra and their 869 000 voters and turn your back on two million university students or weave a health cord on 152 Members who represent ten and a half million voters. [[Applauds]] Minister, where is your dream of a law that results from a broad consensus? That's impossible. For you the students were the center of concern, but they didn't even respect them. He dumped them at the worst time in the pandemic, tricked them and finally betrayed them. They have shown much more responsibility in all this time than their team. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García Morís, told me the other day how happy the students were with you. That's why, of course, they say all this. [[Spread and hang from the rostrum a strip of glued sheets on which you can see various tweets.-Applause]] They went out on the street, of course, went out to congratulate them. Sure, they're very happy. And you wanted to silence them with an express processing, in less than forty-eight hours, of the law of university coexistence. Pure hit-and-run, the latest strategy from the Sanchez factory. Before budgets and Lomloe, now budgets and FP, university coexistence, pensions, minimum living, etc. Our amendment as a whole was a warning, an antidote to its methods, to its lack of transparency and dialogue, and the worst omens have been fulfilled. The result machined by you in hours with little legal fineness has further worsened the already rejectable result of the self-amendment, eliminating from the foundation of this basic law the principle of equality between the Spaniards - they had never dared so much - at the cost of dismembering the state and also the university system in the words of the president of the CRUE. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u252	Your Honor, one second. Please withdraw the deployment of documents you have made. [[So does Mrs Moro Almaraz.-Protests.-Several ladies and gentlemen: President, time!]] Okay. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u253	Gentlemen of the PSOE, with this maneuver you have definitely lost your acronyms. By squandering autonomy, they have stolen it and subjected universities to a political yoke that constitutionally cannot exist, opening an unprecedented gap of inequality and uncertainty to content those who refuse to comply with any law or sentence, those who make blacklists against university professors, those who pursue certain student associations and deny the use of Spanish. Tomorrow the PP will be with S'ha finished! in Barcelona. [[Applauds]] The seriousness of what they have done has fuelled the process of regulatory change in LOSU. They've squandered how little credibility they have left. They can't cover it with a bunch of tool budgets. Furthermore, they veto or deny all our amendments, which say that the university needs structural reforms, programming, budgets that cater to the structural, not the cyclical. The CRUE tells you, it is telling you what you need: a fund that we have asked for many times, that we are denied and voted against. [[shows a document]] They don't give any answers.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u254	Your Honor, your time is up, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u255	Therefore, Mr Castells, if your reason as a minister was to serve universities has failed. That is why we have requested not only the return of the section, but of the ministry and, if it does not rectify, we will ask for his resignation. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u256	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u257	Thank you, President. Good evening, Minister. [[Rumors]] These budgets we are debating, they are already three days of debate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u258	Wait a minute, Your Honor. One second. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Riolobos, please be quiet. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u259	He said that these budgets that we are debating are, above all, a demand for useful policy and policy that is tied to people's needs. For this reason, we have budgets in university matters that bring hope to our university system, budgets that come to consolidate a change of trend towards a more equitable and higher quality university. We are talking about that, without counting the European funds, the financing of university policy is increasing by 9.24% compared to the previous year, which, in turn, has already seen historical growth last year. Therefore, we are leaving behind the time of financial strangulation and cuts to which the People's Party is subject, above all, to the public university. These days, of course, we are seeing that the ladies of the People's Parliamentary Group rise to this rostrum and keep repeating, as if it were a mantra, that in these budgets everything is little and everything is wrong, but the realities that went to the People's Party that lacked very little to carry everything, to charge the university. The university was perhaps one of the institutions that suffered the most from the lost decade, the decade of austereicide, and it was not a collateral damage to these adjustment policies, but a strategic decision and a calculated dismantling of the public university. Let us, therefore, make a little memory. In the period 2011-2015, grants and aid funds fell by 15% with the government of M. Rajoy. Today the scholarships are endowed with 2199 million euros, 109 million more than in 2021, which means an increase of 10% and a second year with a historical increase. Some more data: In 2012 and 2013 alone, 5669 teachers and 2455 members of the administrative staff lost their jobs. These budgets, on the other hand, increase the replacement rate up to 120% for university teachers, to be added to programmes, as the Minister has said, such as the Margarita Salas programme for postdoctoral contracts which are already creating new employment opportunities in all our universities. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about funding the university system, we cannot talk in terms of spending. We are talking about the most profitable investment an advanced society can make. According to a CRUE study on the socio-economic contribution of our university system, Spanish universities return to society by tax 4 euros per euro that administrations invest in them, 4 euros of tax revenue per euro invested. This also applies to the return that will bring with it the 33 % increase in these budgets for the co-financing of the Erasmus+ programme, the 35 % increase in the number of FPU contracts or the 50 % increase in the allocation for Beatriz Galindo aid. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this government is reversing the university counter-reform and cuts of the People's Party. You, Mrs Moro, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, know these cuts well, because when you were running you were already the spokesperson for universities in the People's Parliamentary Group, when Mr Wert made them. I've got headlines here that I brought too. You've taken them out and I'm going to read them, you don't have to take them out. A headline of that time - he is a headline of May 16, 2012, and quoted -: 'The People's Party offers dialogue to the rectors for university reform. The spokesperson, Maria Jesús Moro, has today offered the CRUE an attitude of collaboration and permanent dialogue. Exactly a week later, Minister Wert included in the order of the Council of Universities the debate on the law of cuts, the Royal Decree-Law 14/2012, and eliminated the point of prayers and questions so that the rectors could not say anything. That's his dialogue. That is the dialogue of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You talk about betrayal of students. Do you know when was the greatest betrayal that was made to students in this country? When the People's Party introduced a 30% rise in university fees, it expelled more than 80,000 university students from public universities. That was the greatest betrayal you've ever done. [[Applauds]] Moro and Wert, Wert and Moro, good cop and bad cop. Has this forgotten you already, Mrs. Moro? Have you forgotten? It must be a bit contagious in your party about collective amnesia, because you always forget about that period of cuts and yet to remember a killer dictator you never forget on November 20. [[Applauds.-Protests]] That's Pablo Married's People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the right-wings are rejecting budgets that are going to strengthen the university system and it is not because of a mistake, such as the Mass of Pablo Casado, but because of a question of model and a question of principle. This coalition government defends the public and prioritizes the defence of the public university and equal opportunities no matter where you were born. The model of the People's Party is that of the private university or that of the public university at the price of the private one. It is the university understood as a privilege, a network of elitist contacts that are only intended to reproduce a social status, it is the university for whom I can pay it, that university that gives a master's degree in the face to a young Pablo Casado, but that becomes a career of economic obstacles for the sons and daughters of the working class every time you rule, every time you rule the People's Party. Wert's cuts kicked more than 80,000 students out of college between 2012 and 2015 and seemed few. I quote: 'Too many people go to college. We have to balance. That's what Mendez de Vigo said that same year in Berlin. Since Mariano Rajoy left, however, the number of students enrolled in our universities has risen by 186,000 university students. I'm done, President. These budgets are the best guarantee that this will continue, something that surely does not like the elites who defend the Popular Party and VOX, but which is the best news for a very broad social majority and for the public university of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u260	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u261	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not in a mood at this hour. In any case, I'll give you a first comment, because I'm going to do a relaxed intervention, or I'm going to try at least. He has just sat in Mr. Garzón's seat and someone could indicate that it is a sign of unity of destiny in the universal of the ministries, of both. Your Honor, you have told us before that you will always remind us of that of the European funds. Hurry up because soon they won't be able to remember anything. [[Laughter and applause]] In the inaugural lesson you gave in 2017 at the University of Catalonia, he said the following: The supreme criterion is the scientific and pedagogical quality at the university. That's what you said. Do you consider that this budget for universities is going to meet this criterion? I'm asking you the question in another way. How many centuries will we have to wait for that to happen with this budget? When the left is in opposition promises the miracle of bread and fish, but you have been two years and the Spanish university has neither plans nor fish. It has also been said by the left repeatedly in all these sessions during these days that we have the budgets that there is another way out of the economic crises, especially the 2008 one. I agree, there are other ways, but don't blame others, the responsibility is yours. You know it, you've got it written down. [[Shows the book Ruptura, by Manuel Castells]] Does that ring a bell, Mr. Castells? It's his book. Page 95: The second major fact was the economic crisis of 2008, which intensified in the following years, aggravated by the incompetent management of Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Laughs, cheers and applause]] I didn't tell him, it was him. [[pointing to the Minister of Universities, Castells Oliván.-Laughter]] You say - and you are right - that the competences of universities are held by the autonomous communities, which you generously water with public funds without any control, but UNED is its responsibility. Let's see what you want from UNED. It does not appear in any international ranking of scientific or pedagogical quality, and for two years. The description of UNED programmes does not appear in the budgets. Don't even show up! The games appear, but the description does not appear. You intend to transfer EUR 120.5 million from the European funds to the Autonomous Communities for digitisation, as you have said, while you will allocate EUR 4.5 million to UNED, to a university that has its establishment throughout Spain. You want to make those who only love you happy for their money, but you do not want to improve the Spanish university, and I am not surprised by this abuse by you and yours at the Spanish university. [[laughter and applause]] Last week I had an experience in this Congress in the presentation of the law of university coexistence that really caught my attention. Of course, they did not accept any of VOX's amendments - I was already saying so - but the Court's lawyer proposed some technical improvements to the law: technical improvements to facilitate the work of legal operators - lawyers, judges, etc. -; others to comply with the lexical and semantic rules of the RAE - has no greater mystery either - and the last ones to comply with the regulatory technical guidelines adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2005. They were technical improvements to the counsel of the Courts and they were all rejected by the Lordships of Podemos - all - simply with one argument: No. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this gives me very valuable information, because we already know something more about you and the Podemos Group and its Members: they are from the left and, moreover, clips. Thank you very much. [[Laughter and applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u262	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. We are again faced with budgets with high social investment and, within it, highlights investment in education and higher education. Our university system is among the priorities of the progressive government. It was seen in the budgets of 2021 and we see it now in the budgets of 2022, and this despite the interventions and attitude of some opposition parties, especially the People's Party, as we have just seen. It is true that the spokeswoman of the People's Party is difficult to intervene by having been the party that made the most cuts in education. In fact, these budgets are part of the Government's efforts to overcome this lost decade as a result of its policies. [[Applauds]] From that lost decade the university system has not yet recovered: from its scholarship cuts, from its rise in fees, from its limitations on public employment and also from the precariousness of university staff who generated their policies. It is important to point this out to put us in context, because, in view of their intervention, they never seemed to have government responsibilities and they never seemed to have managed the public. And if they did! This is past; you were telling us that we come to talk about the past, yes, but past that impacts on the present. And the People's Party, Mrs Moro, speaking of the present, is neither expected nor expected for the university reforms that this country must undertake. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Moro, I didn't expect such a performance from you. When I got here I had been told that you, the PP university spokesperson, were the most moderate of the PP. Good luck! I do not know whether nervousness is due to the normative agenda or to the news coming to us from their land, from the Salamanca People's Party. [[Applauds]] I don't know what that state of nervousness is for. We are faced with the fact that these budgets are political budgets, of course they are!, because they focus on social matters, and education is one of their priorities. Investing in the next generations, rebuilding the social elevator are political, but progressive policies. Similarly, hardening the requirements for access to the scholarship or raising university fees are also political, but conservative policies for people who can afford it and generate inequalities. These are the policies that you have implemented, even if you do not want to agree. We must analyse these budgets in a comprehensive way. The section of the Ministry of Universities cannot be understood without scholarships. For the first time, the education budget exceeds EUR 5 billion and 44% of it, the largest historical figure of 2199 million, is earmarked for scholarships, which will be implemented by Education and Universities. Mrs. Moro, your policies served to expel thousands of students from Spanish universities - they do not fit in those leaflets that you have deployed to us here or by putting them with compressed letters -, to expel thousands of students from the university system. [[Applauds]] That is the reality of their policies. Ours is working for equal opportunities, to make the Spanish university system one of the most equitable systems in the world. Our policies have removed the obstacles and difficulties you have created for access to scholarships. This progressive government has once again regained the concept of subjective law, accompanied by a significant budget increase in 2021 and now in 2022. I will repeat this: reaching 2199 million euros, the largest historical figure in our country for scholarships. This scholarship policy is one of the priorities of this legislature. We cannot leave anyone behind, we cannot lose talent, and scholarships are fundamental for this, for the future of our young people. [[Applauds]] In this comprehensive analysis of the budget, in addition to the grants, we must also highlight, even if you do not like, even if you do not want to, the more than 13 billion dedicated to R & D and digitisation, and the coordination that exists between the Minister of Universities and the Minister of Science, as much as you come today to sharpen the role of the minister and the role of our spokesman. [[applause]] The same is true of the ridiculousness that his science spokesperson did in the intervention here the other day. Permanent collaboration. These budgets strengthen the quality of universities by strengthening the human and financial resources available to them, as well as their internationalization. The budget has an increase of 9.24% over 2021. And you come here to talk about the government's regulatory agenda, you don't come here to talk about budgets; the same thing Mr Oblanca has done. I ask you, Mr Oblanca: what are you going to do with the government's regulatory agenda, lend yourself to supporting it, or are you going to remain an appendage of the PP? Your vote is of no use to Spain or Asturias, either. [[Applauds]] Similarly, I have to clearly reject the speech of VOX's spokesman, who always quotes us the same book; I think it is the only book that has been read since 2008, gives that feeling, because it is always the same recurring quote. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] We are not going to live up to you, we ask you to respect the Minister, institutional respect and respect for the Government of Spain. The law of coexistence is a law of coexistence with all its letters. The entire contract programme of the university faculty, the FPU, is also important, with an increase of 5 million euros, because precisely the renewal and the incorporation of new generations to the Spanish university is being prepared. The increase in the replacement rate to 120% is also very important to curb precisely that lost decade, and the Ministry of Universities is managing very well everything that has to do with the Recovery Fund. Gentlemen of the PP, stop trying to get out of the political divide by missing the truth with their scientific and educational policies and sumen. One more year, in spite of you, we will be able to carry out these accounts in order to continue building a more modern and fairer university. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-24-CD211124.u264	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night.
