ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u1	Very good afternoon. The meeting was called to order. Please take your seats, please. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must always encourage our debates in a spirit of agreement, tolerance and mutual respect, so that Parliament, called to exert a powerful influence on our country's political education, will always live in the midst of the prestige that fundamental institutions need, if they are to have respect for everyone and if they are to be the strongest guarantee of order, freedom and law. With these words, delivered by Eduardo Dato as president of the Congress of Deputies in 1908, the documentary that the services of the Chamber have prepared and published on the occasion of the centenary of his death, in memory of who was also minister and president of the Council of Ministers on many occasions. Yesterday, a hundred years have passed since his murder. One hundred years later, his words remain valid today; and, to the same or greater extent, his political work does so, founding the foundations of labor law and social security in our country and constantly demonstrating the commitment to find agreement, overcome divisions and confrontations, and advance in the cohesion of Spanish society. Few examples of survival are more eloquent than the reading of the current definition of an occupational accident in the General Law of Social Security, identical, word for word, to that of the Labour Accidents Act of 1900, which was signed. Whoever, since the leadership of the Liberal-Conservative Party, called himself an interventionist and demanded the necessary reforms for social justice, deserves the words given to him by the liberal politician Amos Salvador in 1910, reproduced by Carlos Seco Serrano in the preliminary study of the volume of his parliamentary speeches, edited by Congress. And they said: It belongs to that category of people to whom vulgar language distinguishes with the exact and irreplaceable qualification of balanced. And when it is said, whoever he is, that he is a balanced man, he is made in one word a great praise. To recover his memory today is to recover, too, his will for institutional loyalty, for harmony, for integration and for balance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u2	Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol, he asked Don Josep Pagès i Massó if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u3	Legal to the October 1 mandate, for the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles, as a matter of law, I promise. [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u4	Don Josep Pagès i Massó has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u5	We begin with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea under Spanish jurisdiction of the damage that may result from the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and other mineral substances. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Paul Jesús Jiménez Fernández has the floor in the first place. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mediterranean Sea is an ancient sea. In distant times, the peoples who inhabit their shores considered it a major place in the known world. A place provided with the wealth of its fishing resources and a mild climate that favored the cultivation of its surrounding lands. A sea that roamed with the pursuit of commercial exchanges, but also cultural and knowledge that brought about the flourishing of civilizations whose influence reaches us today. Today the Mediterranean Sea is a small sea embedded in the geographical globality in which we live and beyond its splendour, which still transcends the passage of time as an evocative echo, it is a degraded marine space that suffers continuous aggressions for the urban and industrial discharges of the coastal peoples, for the penetrating maritime navigation and for the threat that brings us here, that of the oil explorations and exploitations that have nothing to do with the needs of the population but with the interests of those who continue to bet on fossil sources, contrary to the Paris agreements. But despite this intense pressure, life resists and the Mediterranean Sea still retains a high biological wealth. In its western part, an indelible water channel forms the path through which several species of cetaceans migrate. Dolphins, calderons, cachalotes, roars, among others, secretly cross the waters between the Cape of Creus and the Sea of Alborán, leaving aside the Balearic Islands. But it is not only the cetaceans that inhabit the borders of the Mediterranean West, also fish of different species, sea turtles and cephalopods and other invertebrates, and also marine plants, such as - among others - the emblematic posidonia. The Ipbes has said: We are leaving life with our constant pressure on life. One million of the eight million species we assume exist can disappear in a short time and the activities we describe are decisive in the decline of the species. They are not the only ones responsible, of course, because we must not forget that the loss of biodiversity has much to do with the current overexploited model of natural resources. The IPCC has said: The climate is emerging from the continuous emission of greenhouse gases; if we are not able not to exceed the threshold of the degree and a half, by the end of the century extreme weather events will multiply and the activities we describe are decisive in increasing temperatures, marine pollution and coastal pollution in the event of accidental spills, which also endanger economic activities associated with it. For some time now, environmental protection has not focused exclusively on the protection of certain species but on an interrelated whole. We must protect ecosystems in their entirety while respecting the cycles and evolution of the plant and animal species that inhabit them, but also the abiotic environment in which life develops and where hydrocarbons are part of as non-renewable natural resources. This complements the functional unity of ecosystems defined by the Convention on Biological Diversity and recognized in our Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity; and, when this functional unity is completed, the abiotic environment also acquires a protected status, no longer interpreting hydrocarbons that make up it an essentially exploitable good when it is itself a primary resource for understanding the structure of life. We already know, and the United Nations confirms it, but also the International Energy Agency, that we must stop burning fossil fuels so that we do not get into a path of no return that, if we continue like this, will find itself ever closer. What do we do, then, having this sword of Damocles in the form of sounding boats and oil platforms over our ancient and diverse sea? What do we do, then, by subsidizing fossils and not attacking the direct causes of biodiversity loss, including pollution? We therefore believe that it is urgent to adopt this law which we are bringing here today in order to eliminate definitively the threat to the Western Mediterranean, and we hope that there will be no loophole in the future climate change law that will allow marine biodiversity and the economic activities that depend on it, such as fisheries and tourism, to be again endangered in the future. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also to present the initiative, Mr Vicente Alejandro Marí Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, few things in the Balearic Islands are as unanimous as the rejection of oil explorations in the Mediterranean. That political unanimity, but above all social unanimity, has been key for the Parliament of the Balearic Islands to push for the adoption of a bill that comes to this House today for consideration. We therefore have a unique opportunity to achieve what the citizens of the Balearic Islands and different associations such as Alliance Mar Blava and my party, the People's Party of the Balearic Islands, and the rest of Parliament's political forces have been fighting for a long time and demanding, as I said before, unanimously. As representatives of Parliament, we have the responsibility and the obligation to defend before you what the will and feeling of the islands, which have repeatedly said loud and clear that they do not want prospecting in the Mediterranean Sea, that they do not want the environmental wealth of our sea, of our coasts to continue to be put at risk, and neither do they want our economy to be put at risk, an economy that is directly dependent on the tourism sector, as you know severely hit by the effects of COVID. The Mediterranean is a sea with very special characteristics: it is relatively shallow and very closed, but it is still a sea with an ecosystem and biodiversity that make it unique and deserving of its care and protection. The search for oil on the seabed between the Peninsula and the Balearic Islands generates too high risks, environmental risks, energy risks and economic risks. Environmental risks because we are faced with activities that have a direct impact on the rich marine ecosystem that surrounds our islands, an area also recognized as a special protection of the cetacean migration corridor. The islands are spaces of great ecological and natural value and as such must be recognized and valued. Energy risk because today's society is moving forward, and is moving towards new, cleaner and more sustainable energy models, and this is the path that we must foster in the face of outdated projects that advocate the search for oil and polluting gases by drilling the seabed and threatening its conservation and survival. We can't go countercurrent. If we really want to bet on clean and renewable energy and fight the effects of climate change, we have to abandon the use of fossil fuels, and under no circumstances is it coherent or desirable to continue to exploit new oil fields in the Mediterranean. And economic risk because the surveys and surveys in the Mediterranean directly affect the economic model of the islands, the island fishing sector and also its main economic activity, tourism. The tourism industry, which contributes 43 % of the gross domestic product of the Balearic Islands and generates more than 30 % of the occupation, is currently experiencing a serious crisis as a result of the effects of COVID-19. Its recovery, its reactivation, cannot take on new threats such as the authorization of new oil probes. Let us not forget also the fact that the budgets of the European Union, through the Next Generation funds, have among their main objectives to promote the energy transition, which will be one of its basic pillars. For this reason, Spain has a unique opportunity to bet now on energy technologies that make it a world leader. This means relegating the search for and consumption of fossil fuels. Ladies and gentlemen, in February 2014 on the island of Ibiza more than 20,000 people went out on the street to show their rejection of the polls that threatened and still threaten the coasts of the Balearic Islands. This was the most massive concentration, but there were also other protests in the rest of the islands, in Mallorca, in Minorca and in Formentera. All the islands joined under a single slogan: 'Balears diu NO', 'Balears says NO'. Today from this rostrum we come to remember that Balearics continues to say no, that we do not want prospections that can endanger our way of life, our environmental wealth and our economic system. That is why we trust that this House will be able to recognize the feelings, concerns and demands of the Balearic society and will approve the consideration of a law as necessary as claimed. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, to present the initiative, Mr José María Ferra Terrassa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Balearic Islands, Mr Miquel Mir, Councillor of Medi Ambient, Alliança Mar Blava, bon jour, Illes Balears, land in the middle of the sea, country of women fighters with the 'kelly's at the front, land of the rebellion of the Germans, country of which I have the honour of being MP for Mès per Mallorca. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the beginning of the debate on the consideration of the law for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea, and what for you is a beginning for us is the beginning of the end, the end of a long, complex road, but full of hope and pride, and we do not know how it will end, but let me tell you briefly, in three episodes, how it began. The first, in 2013, with the social mobilizations faced with the threats of new projects and an exemplary citizen response, the Blue Sea, which, under the unanimous cry of 'Balears diu NO', saw the birth of a movement, Alliance Mar Blava, lung and heart in this race counterclock. [[Show a picture]] The second episode highlighted the agreement between the social forces and the island administrations and was the Government of Les Illes Balears, with Vicenç Vidal, now Senator of Més per Mallorca, at the head of the Environmental Council, and Antoni Alorda, who in 2016 commissioned the drafting of this bill. [[Applauds]] And in a third phase, the Parliament of Les Illes Balears debated and assumed this text. He did so unanimously by each and every one of Parliament's political forces - all of them - and from that moment on, in the leap to Congress, a calvary: veto, Constitutional Court, general elections - one and two - and again to begin. Four long years that, despite the uncertainty, have not undermined our forces. We come here with the renewed commitment, but this time only of the minimally decent forces, because indecency also came to our land, ladies and gentlemen, as a stain of chapapote, making it more evident that in the fight against the extreme right there are no borders. [[Show another photograph]] The different political forces in the Balearic Islands say no to prospecting for different reasons, either for the protection of the environment; either for the defence of productive sectors such as tourism, fisheries or the blue economy; or for the protection of the hundreds of thousands of jobs it generates. [[Show another photograph]] For whatever reason, whether in the order of priorities, prospecting is a shared, colossal and real threat. Balearics is in the minds of many as a rich territory, yachts and kings. Nothing further from reality, we are an exploited country, with a chronic funding deficit. Today we are the most hit by the social and economic crisis of COVID, champions in the fall of GDP, unemployment and the risk of poverty, and all this in the year in which they lied to us and in which we will not see the special regime for the Balearic Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I hold hands with you and invite you to visit our islands now. To the cry of SOS Illes Balears we ask for their support, also in the face of the threat of prospecting, and is that the memory of the Prestige catastrophe on the Galician coasts and of the Never Again movement remains present and alive in our minds. In the midst of the fight against climate change, let us folder oil, bury forever the images of pollution of our waters and our air, and make renewables a peaceful source of energy, without wars. We are here to be the voice of a very broad social and political consensus in the Balearic Islands. Respect that consensus, respect the will and sovereignty of the peoples of Eivissa, Formentera, Mallorca and Menorca. Balears said NO, not to prospecting. Very graceful. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Ferra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u12	Thank you, President. Thank you, comrades of the Parliament of the Isles. First of all, I would like to thank our people at the CUP in Mallorca, with whom we have been able to prepare the position around this law, and also the people of GOB, GrupOrnitològic Balear, from whom we always follow their tireless work in defense of the land and the environment. As has been said, this proposal for a law is supported by a very broad political and social majority that took place in the Alianza Mar Blava platform, which has incorporated new sectors, particularly that of tourism entrepreneurs, into the conservationist vision of the environment on the coasts of Eivissa, Formentera, Cabrera, Mallorca and Menorca. We will, of course, support this initiative, but we wanted to point out a couple of issues to deepen the ecological perspective of the law. Firstly, the reasons that have led to this broad social and political support, such as the protection of cetaceans and fish in their habitat and the good health of beaches, should be extended to other ecological impacts of human activity, in particular tourism, for example. It did not have the same support - it is in the hands of the courts - the decree of protection of the posidonia, of the posidonia, precisely because some sectors thought it affected tourism, in particular the tourism of large boats and yachts. Secondly, the other issue we wanted to raise. The coherence of this ecological perspective obliges us to focus on hydrocarbons. These prospects must be halted not only because of their environmental impact, but also because they deepen the energy model that we want to leave behind. Continuing to look for oil or gas means going in the opposite direction to decarbonization, emission reduction and energy transition. One thing: if current oil reserves are consumed, the maximum emissions set out in the Paris Agreement are already being exceeded. So what's the point of continuing to look for more oil? But nobody seems to take the end of fossil fuels too seriously, which will lead us to an energy crisis sooner than we imagine. The peak of oil extraction was already predicted decades ago, but all these decades have been lost to transform the energy model. Concretely, it was reached in 2005 and these fifteen years have already been lost with the certainty that the peak in oil extraction had been reached to transform the energy model, starting with the energy companies, those oligopolistic giants, those pillars of IBEX that have so much power mark the energy model change agenda. All this knowledge has been neglected and now the end of fossil fuels will be more accelerated and therefore more traumatic. I recommend that you follow Antonio Turiel, doctor in Physics, expert in oceanography - today we also talk about the sea -, researcher of the CSIC and author of several books, the last of them Petrocallipsis. Based on a report from the International Energy Agency, Turiel argues that oil production will fall dramatically by 2025. His words, in an impressive interview that I recommend you read, are as follows: By 2025 we will face an economic crisis that will make the 2008 one look like a joke. Because from the extraction of raw materials to the transport of goods, through agriculture or construction, they are all activities that are still highly dependent on oil. In conclusion, prospecting should be banned as a result of environmental aggression and as a result of an extension of a model, that of fossil fuels, which is already in crisis. We support this initiative and propose the need to extend it not only to new explorations, but to those already under way, as is the case in particular with those on the coasts of Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denials]] No, no, All right, well, I'm not giving you the floor, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The issue we are discussing has great relevance for the Balearic Islands, of course, but also for Spain and the rest of the world. The background to this bill is to protect the environment by moving towards a real sustainable industry; it is to go one way: citizens, businesses and public administrations to create a framework that enhances respectable investments with the planet. All the political parties represented in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands jointly registered this bill in 2017, a law with a single article that seeks to provide protection in the Mediterranean only to those technologies that have scientifically demonstrated that they do not have a negative impact on the environment and, in addition, adds an additional provision that ensures that concessions granted before the adoption of the law will remain in force until their extinction. Citizens believe that this is very relevant, since it guarantees the legal certainty of the investments that have already been made and we believe that this is the way forward. Ladies and gentlemen, the transition to a green industry must be a project involving the whole of society; it cannot be imposed as a break, but as a necessary journey that we must travel together, with the greatest possible consensus, giving legal certainty to businesses and, of course, to all Spaniards. No one can doubt that companies are at work. In fact, companies are the most interested in taking care of the environment, because otherwise they know that they will pay very dearly. In fact, markets have enthusiastically embraced the ecological transition. Renewable energy is already generally more profitable than other fossil fuels such as coal or natural gas, including large investment funds and hydrocarbon companies themselves have begun to take steps towards abandoning the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, initiating the path to transforming their business to adapt to both this profitability and changes in consumption patterns and citizens' demands. We could cite many examples, but what is clear is that we need consensus among all participants. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the companies themselves are aware of the transformations and are making numerous changes in the energy sector to meet and meet the demands of society. Our role within public institutions must be to foster that transformation and to accompany our companies in that change so that the transition is progressive and within a reasonable time, so that our business fabric can adapt to the new times by guaranteeing employment and its own activity. We in Citizens have always been committed to sustainable growth where the economy and environmental protection are concepts that must go hand in hand, and for this we must give legal certainty and provide the right signals to international investors, something that did not happen to the governments of the People's Party or those of the Socialist Party and their failures with the renewables, which cost us millions to all Spaniards. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can change course; that is why Citizens are going to vote in favour of this bill. We have to listen to the market, which is moving towards renewable energy, and our obligation is to make Spain an ideal country for such investments to arrive. We have to decide which model of country we want and, if we are clear, we have to work with consensus. We also have to listen to the new generations, who are focusing on the environment, and it is that a planet in good condition is the best legacy we can leave our children. In this particular case, protecting the area of value such as the cetacean sanctuary of the Mediterranean is not only a guarantee that our children and grandchildren can also enjoy that natural wonder, but also represents a step forward in finding quality jobs in the sustainable economy. Let us take this debate out of the partisan struggle, of accusations and of hollow confrontations; let us fight for consensus, let us unite, let us unite the forces of this House, as has already been done in the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, to protect our natural resources and to travel, together with the companies, the workers and the whole of society, the road towards an archipelago and a country and a more sustainable world. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good evening and greetings to all the members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and especially to a group of friends, Mess, with whom we fully share the content of this bill. In fact, the Valencian Parliament ten years ago - ten years ago - took the unanimous agreement to prevent oil exploration and exploitation. Nine years ago, when we arrived here, Compromís already submitted a GNP in this regard and, therefore, a decade later this proposal is even more necessary than ever. First, because of the need to decarbonize the economy, life, which no one anymore discusses our commitment to clean energies, which makes the prospecting and oil farms absolutely unnecessary and useless. But environmental risks must be combined with economic risks. The economy of the territories that live next to the Mediterranean Sea: the islands, the Valencià Country, Catalonia or Murcia, has a strong tourism component; in the Valencian case, 15% of our GDP comes from tourism resources, without forgetting, of course, fishing. If we start thinking about who would benefit from this oil exploitation, only a few names come out: the multinational companies that will end up with concessions. In the event of an accident, as in the Gulf of Mexico a few years ago, who would end up paying the consequences, who would suffer the consequences? The citizens, the environment and, ultimately, our economy. We believe that there is a social cry that we must listen to and in Compromís, faithful to our commitment to our land, to the citizens and to the environment, we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u18	Thank you, President. In More Country-Equo we have many powerful reasons to support this initiative. Firstly, because it is a proposal worked out from the institutional, citizen, political and social consensus with ecological movements and with organizations such as the Mar Blava Alliance, which was born precisely because of the mobilizations against projects and new projects to extract, exploit and explore hydrocarbons from the Mediterranean seabed. I would like to thank the Members who have come today to defend the initiative, especially the Member of Més for the cooperation we have, and also the Environment Council for having been able to work towards consensus and listening to citizens. Secondly, because it responds to a very urgent and clear need to protect the Mediterranean Sea, very vulnerable to the effects of these projects and very vulnerable also to the effects of climate change. The Spanish State has made a special commitment to all international agreements for the protection of the Mediterranean and is therefore in compliance with them. In addition, we will support this proposal because it also coincides with the presentation in this House of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act and because we want to move from words to facts. In our view, the proposal they are bringing today from the Balearic Parliament has a framework of greater security and clarity both in the case of current authorisations, which decline if they have not been resolved - not initiated, but resolved - before the law comes into force, and in the prohibition of extensions. That is why for us, for More Country-Equo, it has a framework of more security and because, as the project we are working on is drafted, the projects could continue to request extensions up to twenty years from now. And the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we do not have twenty years to delay the changes we had to make yesterday; the problem is that the transition and energy change have to come soon and they have to be done efficiently and fairly in order not to make the mistakes of the past again. If something has taught us the pandemic, it is that attacking and damaging biodiversity in our territories also poses a very clear risk to health and, moreover, as it was proposed, to the economy and, therefore, it is important that this bill is supported, but also that it be adjusted and coordinated with the climate change bill because one will be related to the other. Public policies, for better or for worse, have the power to be elements of transformation and change that would otherwise not be possible. This bill and the climate change bill may become so, but, as I said, that requires being clear, forceful and ambitious and aiming far and high to go further. Perhaps today many groups are voting in favour of their proposal, and that is why I am asking you to vote consistently for improvements to the future climate change and energy transition law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u20	Thank you very much, President. This noon we have heard of the revocation of the third degree to our fellow prisoners, a new injustice that reaffirms us in our convictions, and behind a government that does not respond, that offers no political alternative. We don't know exactly what they want to do. Freedom of political prisoners and prisoners. [[applause.- Continue your intervention in Catalan.- Rumours]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill adopted by all the parliamentary groups of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands in May 2017 and unanimously ratified again in April 2020, a law, therefore, which responds to a sustained majority demand in the time of Parliament and of the citizenship it represents, but it has been very difficult to reach this day. Let us remember that, after being passed in Parliament, this bill was sent to the Courts, but the People's Party government vetoed it by preventing it from being processed. The following year, already with a new Government, he returned to the Courts. On this occasion it was dealt with by the Bureau and qualified, but it was never taken into consideration for discussion. Let's hope this time it's over. Four years ago Parliament's arguments were clear and required courageous decisions. The intensification of global warming is increasing and its effects are more irreversible. The omission of the Spanish State is a negligence that can mortgage the future of an entire marine ecosystem as important for its biodiversity as that of the Mediterranean Sea. The vulnerability of the Mediterranean is special and unique, not only because it is a closed sea with limited capacity for water renewal, but also because the faunal diversity of the Mediterranean environment is enormous. For example, 28% of marine species found in the Mediterranean are endemic. A special regime to protect the Mediterranean from negative impacts in terms of hydrocarbon and acoustic pollution, research, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, would bring enormous global benefits for the whole region, especially for cetaceans. The incompatibility between activities linked to the marine exploitation of hydrocarbons and other mineral substances and the health of cetaceans is reflected in the statement of reasons for the declaration of Specially Protected Areas of Importance for the Mediterranean, Zepim, and of the Cetacean Migration Corridor that runs between the coasts of Valencia, Catalonia and the Balearic Islands and Pitiüses, under the Barcelona Convention. We do not forget the environmental and economic consequences, more than EUR 4 billion, if we take into account the interests of the ecological attack that has been and is the case with Castor. And it is that the good state of the Mediterranean Sea depends on economic sectors as important as tourism or fishing, as has been mentioned here, sectors that have been severely hit precisely by the health, economic and social crisis of COVID-19. Therefore, the adoption of this law is urgent. Today, more than ever, the adoption of this law makes sense, which is fully consistent with the spirit of the future law on climate change and energy transition, a law which, in principle, prohibits new projects for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, but which includes in a small letter that would endanger the protection of the sea, which is why Esquerra Republicana has amended it. Today, with the votes of the different groups, we will see who is really - not just making a statement of principles - for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change. Let us really see, apart from those great general announcements, who are willing to work on matters as specific as they are and who, with the defence of the interests of the energy oligopoly that profits at the expense of the exploitation of natural resources, are in favour of another model. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very clear about this and, in this regard, we call on all groups to support this law, which has been trying to be adopted for four years now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u21	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u22	Good afternoon, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, our Mediterranean is the most polluted sea in the world by hydrocarbons and waste. It is one of the largest inland seas on Earth, with approximately 2.5 million square kilometres, but also one that reaches the highest rates of pollution, especially by hydrocarbons. According to the scientific director of Oceana Europe, Mr Ricardo Aguilar, the Mediterranean receives between 400,000 and 500,000 tons of oil and waste annually. Sueculiarity makes it particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, so limiting the exploitation of hydrocarbons to curb warming is vital for its survival. Although it is currently very damaged, its ecosystem is not yet in terminal phase, although the levels of hydrocarbons dissolved in its waters are already up to 5 grams per litre and even more than 10 grams per litre in areas of acute chronic pollution. Contamination of its waters has a direct impact on our marine fauna. Between 6 and 12% of the planet's marine species live on it. A study of turtles caught by fishermen in the Central Mediterranean revealed that 20 % of the species sampled had remnants of oil pollution. It is a privilege for me to defend this bill presented today by the Parliament of Les Illes Balears and to make our own the arguments that call for immediate protection. This initiative is based on the social consensus and the drive of civil society, which, together with entities from both public and private sectors, have joined the Alliance Mar Blava partnership with the aim of defending the Mediterranean from any oil activity that could threaten our environment our economy, promote a less polluting navigation and bet on an energy transition towards a sustainable model. It is an initiative which has the unanimous support of Parliament and which we hope will also have the unanimous support of this House, because today we are taking the first step towards ending the prospecting in the Mediterranean. The future climate change law, currently under discussion in this House, covers some aspects of the limitation of hydrocarbon exploitation, demonstrating the commitment of this government - and, in particular, of the United We Can - in the fight against pollution and climate change, because it is urgent to take measures to curb pollution in the Mediterranean. We've wasted too much time. This is the third legislature in which this bill is presented. In 2017, it was the People's Party, supported by Citizens, that vetoed its processing on economic grounds. Falaz Argument if we remember the spills that lived in the wells of Repsol in front of Tarragona in 2009. What economic reasons could the People's Party have for endangering the entire tourism sector, which accounts for 35% of the GDP of the Balearic Islands? The prospecting of hydrocarbons in our seas has an insurmountable environmental cost and perpetuates an obsolete energy model, an energy model that since Balearics we are beginning to transform, with its vice president, Juan PedroYllanes, at the head, whom I want to thank for its commitment to the implementation of clean energies. Because to bet on the welfare of citizens is to bet on the conservation of our seas and our lands as part of our contribution to the conservation of the planet; it is to bet on a new economic model based on sustainability, on clean energies, on the circular economy, and here and now it is to bet on preventing the continued contamination of our Mediterranean by hydrocarbons. It is to bet to save this sea that not only feeds us but has been the cradle of world civilization. It is the sea of many names: Upper Sea, for Babylonians; White Sea, for Turks; Sea Between Lands, for Greeks; Great Green, for ancient Egyptians; Mare Nostrum, for Romans; Great Sea, for Jews; Middle Sea, for Germans; Surrounded Sea; Friendly Sea; Faithful Sea. It is a small sea that facilitates communication between peoples, a symbol of creativity, of seeking the meaning of life and wisdom, as well as of love for human beings and nature. It is a sea that for our islands is everything. We hope that, even if it is for once, the People's Party will join us in protecting life by voting in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u23	Thank you, ma'am, Jover. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mestre Barea has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, almost everyone seems to agree on the need to move towards more sustainable and less aggressive societies with the environment, there is no doubt here. However, this is a matter more related to feelings than scientific, to the extent that we consider it necessary simply because we are convinced that it is good, according to our perception. On the other hand, the question to which science must answer is how to move towards this goal and, in this way, political action must be based on contrasted data and scientific facts. There are many international conventions signed between Mediterranean States to preserve the marine environment, combat pollution and protect and improve the resources of Mare Nostrum. Without the courage to be exhaustive, I'll quote a few. The 1976 Barcelona Conference is the initial milestone in the task of preserving the marine environment, culminating in 1995 with the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Region of the Mediterranean. At present, there are twenty-two countries of the Barcelona Convention and the general obligations imposed are to protect the environment and contribute to the sustainable development of the Mediterranean Sea area. International regulations on marine environmental pollution are also comprehensive. The International Maritime Organization can be seen as the basis of international legislation on the protection of the marine environment. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea also formulated a large number of binding international conventions. The European Union, for its part, has another legal arsenal focusing on pollution prevention and control; the most important is the Maritime Spatial Planning Directive, adopted by the European Parliament at the 2014 Council. Finally, the current draft law on climate change and ecological transition, article 8, exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, paragraph 1, reads as follows: As from the entry into force of this law, new exploration permits, hydrocarbon research permits or operating concessions will not be granted in the national territory, including the territorial sea, the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf, which is exactly the same as the proposal for a law presented to us today in its single article. The proposal for a law presented to us by the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands is therefore a completely unnecessary law, because, moreover, all the enormous legislation that exists to protect the Mediterranean ecosystem will be subsumed by the rules arising from the law on climate change and ecological transition that will be adopted, unfortunately, shortly in this Parliament. And I say unfortunately, because Spain will thus become the first nation in history that is forced by law not to investigate and exploit its own resources. The current Spanish policy moves at the pace of likes, that is, of estimating the vote, because, in fact, this is the only thing that represents the alleged ban on exploration of hydrocarbons; an arbitrary decision, a toast to the sun to adorn itself with the ecological medal; an image operation, always obviating scientific evidence. [[applause]] VOX believes that exploration of Spain's abundant natural resources should not be limited. The high energy dependence on the outside and the high energy price - today the price of oil is above $70 - demand that the search for new forms of energy be encouraged. This law, in its current wording, could be another cause of economic impoverishment and self-limitation without any strategic sense. Our parliamentary group is the only one who disagrees about the general consensus on the so-called climate emergency. It seems to us that the energy design that will be imposed authoritarianly is a design based, primarily, on intermittent energies and will cause very serious damage to the competitiveness of the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]] Our bet is for an energy mix that generates stability and security of supply, and which, of course, includes renewables, atomics, hydraulics, reversibles and any other. Whatever the objectives set out in these climate laws, mass conferences, climate summits and conventions, must be followed by scientific guidelines, realistically, fleeing from trembling, medium-circumstances and the often unfortunate statements of media stars, mature, young or childish, which mask the true meaning of the problem before us. While most of us suffer from climate change - and we recognize this - certain corporations have become vertiginously rich because of their role at the head of this process, not all of us share the responsibility for the crisis; not all of us have the same interest in resolving it. Our parliamentary group is going to abstain, but it wants to stress that, instead of banning hydrocarbon research and exploration, a serious government would do better to develop an environmentally controlled, monitored and guaranteed population plan from the institutions themselves, allowing us to know the value of the resources we have and the real risks involved in their exploitation. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u25	Thank you very much, Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u26	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to join in welcoming the President of Congress and to acknowledge, in the three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands who are with us today, the power of popular sovereignty of an autonomous community to which I am proud to belong. It was more than ten years ago when a royal decree-law passed by the Spanish Government at the time offered the oil industry the possibility of drilling the marine subsoil in the environment of the Balearic Islands. The reaction of civil society did not wait - it is enough to remember the great social manifestation that took place in the year 2014-, the citizens took the street in their own right, demanding a Mediterranean sea free of prospecting, free of hydrocarbons and irreversible threats. A citizen movement driven by Alliance Mar Blava succeeded in agitating all our consciences. This movement managed to add 128,000 accessions against seismic projects projected just 35 miles off the coast of Ibiza. More than six years have passed since that demonstration and today the spirit of resistance of a society that has never resigned to accept that its economic prosperity, the wealth of its seas, the life of its fauna and the diversity of its habitats are at risk. That great social demonstration was joined by the People's Party and the rest of the political forces without distinction, and all kinds of public entities and private entities; all concentrated in one voice, sharing the same purpose, going out on the street together, holding the same banner. And today, more than six years after that, that same blue tide that floods the streets of Ibiza, Mallorca, Menorca and Formentera has managed to get us all convened in this plenary session, which represents a real triumph of civil society and confirms that in Spain we enjoy a democracy in full. [[Applauds]] Let no one think that today, that this afternoon, we address a consideration of more than one law. Today thousands of people in the Balearic Islands have the vision and hope set in this parliamentary debate, waiting and trusting that we will live up to their expectations. But not only to his expectations, but also to the expectations of future generations. Their concern is no longer confined only to the world in which they live, their concern reaches the world that they will leave their children when they stop living. It has been more than six years and someone might think that we are late - and it is true, too late - but that we are late does not mean that we have not led initiatives and agreements to counter the effects and consequences of climate change and global warming; initiatives, all of them, by the hands of two ministers such as Miguel Ángel Arias Cañete and Isabel García Tejerina. We promoted the existence of a Cetacean Corridor of the Mediterranean Sea that protected marine fauna and prevented oil speculation in that space; we created a carbon footprint record; we also demonstrated that we can move forward, evolve in renewable energies and also grow to 3%; we signed the Paris agreements and complied with Kyoto, and we presented - listen well - in this Congress the first climate change law of Spanish democracy - of the latter three years ago - a law to which some decided to give folder without giving further explanations to present their law as if the environmental question were a competition between parties where what is not wanted is to arrive together, but what is intended is to arrive at the first. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Balearic society is sending us a clear message and an unequivocal message, today the Balearic society is setting us the way, asking us all together to achieve the decarbonisation of all the economic sectors planned for 2050. Coal, oil and natural gas have allowed humanity to make progress in achieving high rates of progress, but everything has a price and continues to bet without measure and without brake on dependence on fossil fuels means paying the most expensive price of all. The exploitation of tons of carbon released in the form of carbon dioxide and methane has changed the climate and is going to transform it even more, and thereby will condition our lives. This is empirical evidence in which there are no possible negationisms. Spain today faces one of the most important challenges of the contemporary era: the opportunity to stop being an energy-isolated country to be a generating and producing country. Spain has before it the achievement of a highly ambitious objective: to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. And on this path, I am already telling you that the People's Party will be on the side of all those who seriously propose to promote a just energy transition in this country, and above all we will always be on the side of that civil society that, like Alianza Mar Blava, calls us every day to make the most precious legacy we have to pass on to our children the best preserved legacy of all. Therefore, our position in the consideration of this proposal for a law will be affirmative by consistency, by conviction, because it is the only path of all possible and because the strength of civil society demands it and forces us to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u28	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, as the rest of the speakers have already done, I wish to welcome the representatives of the Parliament of Les Illes Balears and to express my personal satisfaction to them not only to have them here today but to receive them today in Congress to discuss, at last, the consideration of this proposal for a law of singular importance to the Balearic Islands, where the rejection of the damage caused by oil explorations and the desire to protect our marine environment and our biodiversity led to a massive citizen mobilization and a broad political and social consensus, which even came to be organized through important cross-sectoral alliances such as the well-known Alliance Mar Blava, to which I wish to make an express mention and recognition from here. I say at last because, as you know perfectly well, this initiative is not the first time the Congress has arrived; the spokesman for the People's Party said that we respond to a need, to a unanimous request from the Balearic society and that we were also late. Indeed, the same initiative that we are debating today, also unanimously adopted in the Balearic Parliament, was transferred in June 2017 to this House, but on that occasion we did not even have the opportunity to debate in this plenary, because its processing was vetoed in the Bureau of Congress by the representatives of the People's Party and Citizens, who at that time had a majority in the Bureau and who inexplicably headed the banners in Balearics and here did not allow this initiative to be processed. Therefore, Mr Jerez, we were late, we could have done it before, but in all that something - much - has to see the People's Party. Obviously, many things have happened since then, basically the People's Party has lost the elections and passed to the opposition and now we have a president of the socialist government and a progressive majority that does want to process this law. That is why my satisfaction today is twofold, because we have finally been able to debate this initiative and above all to transfer from this rostrum the affirmative vote of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which also transferred the Socialist Party's commitment to defending our natural resources as public goods and our rejection of their aggressive and unsustainable exploitation. The Socialist Party was committed to the protection of the environment and the defense of the Mediterranean Sea in 2017, when we were in opposition, and the Socialist Party is now committed to the defense of the Mediterranean Sea now that we are in the Government of Spain. The fight against climate change and policies for the protection of natural spaces are one of the defining axes of our Government, and President Sánchez's commitment to the protection of the Mediterranean Sea is clear, as demonstrated by the adoption in June 2018 of the Royal Decree declaring the Mediterranean Cetacean Migration Corridor a protected marine area, which in practice has involved the protection of a strip of maritime waters of more than 46,000 square kilometres of surface and about 85 kilometres of medium width, which runs between the Catalan and Valencian coast and the Balearic Islands. I must make an express and necessary mention here of the preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition, adopted by the Council of Ministers in May last year and which is currently in the process of parliamentary presentation, which, despite clearly having much broader objectives than those limited to the proposal we are debating today, also reflects in its article the concern underlying this initiative of the Parliament for the purpose of limiting the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons throughout the national territory, including the territorial sea and the continental shelf. The Government of Spain, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, has not expected that this law of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands could be reprocessed to work in defence of our Mediterranean Sea as well. In any case, we see how the bill that comes to us today from the Balearic Islands coincides with the commitments and approaches of our parliamentary group and, as I have already announced at the beginning of my speech, we will vote in favour of its consideration. With our vote in favour, we also want to move finally, a few years later, to this forum of Congress the voice of those thousands of citizens of the Balearic Islands who joined in a massive social mobilization and who forged a great unanimity, endorsed by all political, local and autonomous bodies and only broken here by the veto of the People's Party in Congress. In any case, I believe that your correction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is very positive. I care more about the meaning of your vote today than about your inconsistencies in the past, because today is an important day for the Balearic Islands. Finally, here in Congress, consideration is being given to an important initiative for the citizens of our islands. It was in 2017, but it is now, too, when the very hard economic consequences of this pandemic have been particularly hard on a territory like ours, totally dependent on tourism. This pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has highlighted many things, but also the fragility of our economic model and, therefore, more than ever highlights the need to take care of our natural environment not only for obvious environmental reasons, but because it represents a very important part of the treasure that we offer from the Balearic Islands to our visitors. We therefore ask all representatives of the various political groups to vote in favour of this initiative, because it will be a vote of hope and a vote of the future for the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Hernanz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE PARLIAMENT OF THE BALEAR ISLANDS, AMENDING ARTICLE 25 OF LAW 7/1996 OF 15 JANUARY, ORDERING MINORIST TRADE. [[Corresponds to case numbers 125/000026 of the XII Legislature and 125/000013 of the XIII Legislature]] [[File number 125/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u30	We continue with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, to amend article 25 of Law 7/1996 of 15 January on the Organization of Minority Trade. That is why we are also joined by three representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I also welcome to this Congress of Deputies. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Enrique Casanova Peiró.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to come here to defend the position of a law arising from the Parliament of Les Illes Balears. It is a bill that has a somewhat specific meaning for the Balearic Islands because, although it is an attempt to amend a general law, in the Balearic Islands, because of its configuration, because of its territorial dispersion, because of insularity, the implementation of small trade is still very important and that territorial dimension causes the implementation of other trade modalities to affect it significantly. It is a proposal for a law that calls for the amendment of Law 7/1996, specifically its article 25, to facilitate better positioning of small business enterprises, which in limited markets, such as that of island territories, need greater attention. While it is true that in today's times and in the pandemic situation that we are experiencing has been generated and allowed to develop an entire online trade, a whole world of digital trading platforms that go beyond territorial barriers, it is also true that it has been small trade that, with much effort and sacrifice, has facilitated the maintenance of this commercial activity and essential services in our towns and cities, thus demonstrating the need for their existence and survival. If we seek to have territory among all, a friendly, sustainable and humanized city, we have to facilitate the maintenance of a commercial fabric of small independent owners, of medium-sized enterprises that, with their implantation in the nearest territory, articulate the commercial life and, sometimes, the social relationship of our cities. Small trade is mostly located in urban centres and makes it possible to limit the process of concentration in commercial sites. That is why we in the Balearic Islands need to bet on policies that facilitate the consolidation of small trade and the maintenance of local trade structures. The replacement of local trade in today's times by franchised trade eliminates the individual and social character of our trades and that moves away from idiosyncrasy itself. They must understand that, at the island level, the maintenance of our own identity on the part of our islands is essential, because our economic model, based mostly on tourism, will ignite our particularity, requires a commercial network of proximity, responsible trade, quality trade and emblematic trade. On the other hand, it is also true that within the globalizing European landscape in which we currently live different companies have to have the possibility of designing their own business strategies that allow them to be competitive and establish where they want to set up and the type of trade they want to establish, as well as the growth of franchised trade, so reforms that facilitate both the commercial development of one model and another, but without imposing the interests of one on the interests of the other, must be addressed. That is why policies are needed to facilitate the maintenance of proximity trade as well as other interests of other companies. Over time, trade strategies have been set up that have also changed consumer habits, and so this bill also seeks to protect the consumer in order to facilitate the possibility of responsible consumption. In short, we believe that with this proposal to amend the law that we are presenting here today, all the needs will be met, and we ask you to think about consumer protection and their rights, as well as the positioning of small and medium-sized enterprises and small proximity businesses, which are essential for the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u32	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to present the initiative, Mr Sagreras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u33	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to Madrid with a representation of Members of the Islands with a clear mandate, with an almost unanimous mandate from our Parliament, from the Parliament of Les Illes Balears. We come here to improve the Retail Trade Act to boost our small trade, our proximity trade and our traditional trade. We come here to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to have your proceedings in the Congress of Deputies for good. It was from 2012 and beyond that the People's Party government had to face a series of reforms to get Spain out of the pit of the crisis in which the Socialist Party had, as always, put us. And those reforms resulted, those reforms resulted, those reforms brought our country and our autonomous communities back to the path of economic recovery. Moreover, in Balearic Islands, far from being an exception, we were the clearest example. From these moments and thanks to these reforms, in the Balearic Islands we began to lead economic growth in all of Spain at that time. At that time, at that time and thanks to those reforms, we in the Balearic Islands began to recover the jobs we had lost in the crisis. On the islands, therefore, sooner than later we could see ourselves in another reality. It was already in 2018, with that new situation, with that situation of tranquility, with that situation of economic goodness when we began to think about changing some of the rules that we had no choice but to take, among them, the proposal to return to the periods of traditional discounts. That is why we are here today, so that our community can recover the two traditional periods of sale. I have to admit - and I have already acknowledged it in the debate in our Parliament over two years ago, the Member of the Commission, Josep Melià, who is proposed on his own, is not the panacea. This proposal needs other measures and alternatives to continue to encourage consumption and to help trade get out of the patch in which it is re-entered. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have come from the Balearic Islands today to defend this proposal for a law - which we believe is good for our small trade, our proximity trade and our traditional trade - we cannot leave without claiming or demanding - if necessary - other variables, which are so substantial or even more important at this time than the changes in the periods of discounts defended. First, vaccines. You should know that, being the autonomous community that is suffering the most economically from the crisis of COVID, being the autonomous community of all Spain where the gross domestic product has fallen the most and, unfortunately, being the leading autonomous community in the destruction of jobs, we are the autonomy that the least vaccines are receiving from the Government. At this stage and at this rate of immunization we will not be able to save the tourist season, so we will not be able to save our shops either. Secondly, and this also affects trade, expropriations have become fashionable in the Balearic Islands. President Armengol became famous last week for starting to expropriate homes, attack legal security and attack private property. For you must know that these are not the only expropriations that take place in the Balearic Islands. Pedro Sánchez has expropriated our special regime, our tax share of the special regime, even before it was approved. That tax side, that financing of our special regime is very important to our trade as well. For all this we have come here today, to ask for the amendment of the Retail Trade Act and to claim vaccines. We cannot be in the Balearic Islands depending on the service sector and have a good tourist season at the tail of the immunization and receiving vaccines from the Government of Spain. We have also come to demand a tax share of the special regime for the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagreras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, as the representative of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and to present the initiative, I give the floor to Mr Josep Melià i Ques.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We come from Mallorca, Minorca, Ibiza and Formentera with the firm intention of transferring to this House a will, the will to reform the regulation of commercial discounts after more than eight years of the adoption of a regulation, the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, which we clearly find unsatisfactory. This will responds to the need expressed as active and passive by the small and medium-sized trade of Les Illes Balears, a sector such as few in full transformation and with enormous challenges as a result of the expansion of the large operators, either through online trade or through the large trading centres; a sector that sees how regulations such as the one indicated increase the already fragile and unstable imbalance between the attraction trade and the proximity trade. Traditional commercial rebates existed for fully justified reasons, encouraged consumption and allowed the disposal of stocks accumulated by stores. The fixing of fixed periods of rebates gave consumer certainty and predictability to the trader, to all traders. Discounts could account for 20% of the turnover of a trade. The disappearance of the rebates under the false guise of liberalization has caused the disorientation of the customer and an even more dominant position of the large operators. In addition, the state regulation prior to Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, which amended the Retail Trade Act, granted autonomous communities, as institutions with exclusive competence in the area of internal trade, powers to modulate and adapt to their reality these periods of commercial rebates. That is why our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is to recover the traditional periods of sale and the autonomous powers, since it seems to us to be most consistent with harmonious economic development that does not encourage oligopolies and most consistent with the territorial division of power in a State composed of nationalities and regions. Today, in Congress, the Pi-Proposa per les Illes Balears takes a step further in its commitment to defending the proximity trade and to defending the self-government of Les Illes Balears. This bill was formulated by our party and passed in Parliament by a very large majority, with the vote in favour of the two large parliamentary groups in this House. Baleares wants to make his voice heard, we want to claim the need for the circumstances of the insular fact to be understood and respected as required by article 138 of the Constitution. And this is to sustain the recovery of commercial rebates, to sustain the modulating role of autonomous communities such as the Balearic Islands, and also to argue that the special Balearic Islands regime cannot be ignored and unimplemented in the State General Budgets, as it has been in the 2021 General Budgets, which have clearly, grossly, failed to comply with the Special Balearic Islands Regime adopted in 2019, hence our parliamentary group in the Balearic Parliament has promoted a remedy of unconstitutionality against those budgets. Balearic Islands is the territory of the State which is most acutely suffering from the devastating impact of the economic crisis accompanying COVID-19. Now more than ever we need vaccination responses, as Parliament's partner said, and a modest response is to pass this bill and send a message of empathy to small and medium-sized businesses, so in need of support and understanding. With this desire he made this intervention. Many thanks, many thanks, eskerrik asko, many graces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Melià. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Ruiz Navarro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Balearic Parliament, we must not talk about retailing without making public recognition of the great effort they have made and are doing all the small family businesses of proximity, of the neighbourhoods and of rural Spain to help their neighbours and their elders, offering a humane, close and quality service in the midst of so much despair. [[applause]] So, since VOX, we say thank you, thank you, thank you. [[Applauds]] The VOX Parliamentary Group is going to vote no to this bill to amend section 25 of the Retail Trade Act because the object of the reform presented here is simple: to repeal the wording introduced by Royal Decree 12/2020 to section 25 and essentially to return to the original wording. The claim, therefore, is to put an end to the freedom currently enjoyed by each trader to set the seasonal periods of discounts that best suit their commercial interest and, in addition, to change it for the traditional two-period system of annual, winter and summer periods, in which it would be possible to offer discounts. In addition to the above, they also want to re-establish minimum and maximum legal time limits for discounts ranging from one week to two months and, therefore, also enclose the freedom that each trader has to offer in accordance with his own interest. All this seasoned, of course, with the interventionism of the autonomous communities, which not only indicate specific dates of the discounts, but also now proposes that they can also determine the applicable legal regime. It should be pointed out that this initiative by the Balearic Parliament, as the defenders themselves have acknowledged, is clearly out of date. Part of the explanatory statement, which you will all be able to read, of a premise that is no longer given today, speaks of moments of economic recovery to which your third paragraph refers. These moments, unfortunately, have evaporated abruptly because of the COVID pandemic and a harmful, irresponsible and criminal policy of a government that the Spaniards do not deserve. [[Applauds]] During 2020, Spain's GDP has fallen by more than 11%, according to the International Monetary Fund, and there are more than 4 million Spaniards who have lost their jobs and, unfortunately, it is likely that many of those currently subject to an ERTE will lose their jobs in the future. By the end of 2020, more than 17% of Spanish companies had gone down the blind forever and, together with them, more than 300 000 self-employed, i.e. a significant part of those who created direct wealth in Spain will no longer do so. Spain now needs more freedom and no more restrictions. [[Applauds]] Precisely the current wording of the royal decree, which amended article 25, was dictated to deal with a situation of serious economic crisis marked by recession and the destruction of employment, which is precisely what we are in right now. We are talking not about liberalisation, but about freedom, and it is logically, as if traders, especially SMEs and self-employed people, are not going to obtain liquidity in the face of a situation of serious need giving way to stocks if they have to wait for the legal period of reductions to come. The reduction of restrictions in the field of commercial activity has been a repeated recommendation of the IMF and the OECD and makes no sense to separate itself from this line. Ladies and gentlemen, the Retail Trade Act sets out two main principles in its article. Article 3 deals with the information principle of freedom of enterprise in the context of a market economy, in the development of article 38 of the Constitution and, for its part, article 14 deals with freedom of prices, with the exceptions expressly provided for. In VOX we are in favour of adopting measures to protect our small trade, our SMEs and our self-employed, because they are the basis of the Spanish economic and social fabric. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we understand that restricting the ability of each entrepreneur to decide what is right for his company at any time makes no sense, especially, as has been mentioned here by the defenders - curiously, it seems a contradiction-when they have to compete with online shops that, operating from virtual headquarters, have no price limitations. Therefore, our physical traders need friendly and non-enemy laws. Do you know how to support small entrepreneurs and self-employed people? They are supported, first, by leaving them to work; second, by providing compensation to compensate for such a ban; third, by lowering taxes and not raising taxes; fourth, by designing real and direct tax subsidies and incentives; fifth, by suspending the payment of self-employment quotas and social security contributions for employees at ERTE; sixth, by promoting COVID financing lines at zero cost; and seventh, by promoting proximity investments through friendly tax policies. [[Applauds]] All this has already been proposed by VOX, quite the opposite of what the Government of Spain and the Government of the Balearic Islands are doing. And they are also supported by reducing restrictions, and one of their forms is political interventionism. Parliament is proposing that we leave the autonomy which, in addition to setting the dates for the periods of sale, determines the applicable legal regime. This is new, it did not appear in the previous wording. What does it mean to determine the applicable legal regime? Do we not already have in the legal system that it is applicable? Or do we live in the law of the jungle? Is it intended to break with this the market unity enshrined in Article 139 of the Spanish Constitution, establishing seventeen different models of the functioning of the retail trade? We are very afraid that yes, that this is the object. While the governments you represent are dedicated to discussing what a man is or what a woman is or spending our tax money on promoting gender madness, people, small traders, are having a bad time, because you, the reality in which normal people live, care very little. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in short, this proposal does not help the small trade in the Balearic Islands or the rest of Spain. And it is striking that it is a parliament in a region that has been so badly hit by this crisis in the KOVID pandemic, with GDP falls of more than 20%, that is to say twice as much as the average of the whole of Spain, which brings here something that can put the dot to the whale economy. Members of the Government of Spain and the Balearic Islands, if you do not know how to create wealth, at least stop destroying it. [[Applauds]] The question is: Are you willing to help our traders? I would suggest to the representatives, primarily the parties that form the government in both the Balearic Islands and Spain, that you, the representatives who have come here from the Parliament to shoot, advise them to order their puppies to stop bursting windows and looting when they cause riots. That's enough! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn, Mr Melià i Ques has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members of Parliament for giving me all the time in this speech to respond and make the reply, because at the end of the day our parliamentary group is the author of the initiative. We are asked by the Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group how it supports traders. How? First of all, by listening to them and, second, by listening to them, because something must know about trade. That's what we've done. What we have done humbly has been to listen to them and to listen to them, and this initiative is the result of that listening and to listen to them, because this is what the traders of the Balearic Islands want; this is what the sector has asked of us, it is not an invention of this parliamentary group or of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. It is therefore a fair, equitable and balanced demand for our small and medium-sized trade. [[One Member: The Pandemic Affects GDP]] Yes, but it has nothing to do with it; the pandemic and GDP have absolutely nothing to do with commercial rebates.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u40	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u41	There's one thing called COVID-19. [[Shows a mask]] I don't know if you remember. They say that there is liberalisation, but the liberalisation of trade rebates is false. Why is it fake? Because it has only benefited large operators, who have monetary and market capacity to advertise their offers. Small and medium-sized trade cannot compete under these conditions. An imbalance is created and in the end the consumer only learns of the discounts of the big one and does not know of those of the small one. Then they talk about breaking windows. In the Balearics, none. No window has been broken in the Balearic Islands and we are the ones who are defending this initiative. The autonomous communities exist and form an intrinsic part of the 1978 constitutional state, and if the Constitution recognizes them with competence in the area of internal trade, it must be because the Constitution claims that each autonomous community can develop its trade policy, which does not necessarily have to be symmetrical, is the same as other autonomous communities can practice. Of course not, in that is the decentralization, the composite state, autonomy, etc., and in that is the Spanish Constitution, in our modest opinion. Therefore, the Balearic Islands legitimately and constitutionally seek to develop their own and different trade policy by listening and taking into account traders. We are in a process of consideration. Therefore, we are in the debate on the general idea of this bill. Our general idea is that the rebates should be recovered because that gives certainty to the consumer and helps the trader to reduce the stock, because the stock is produced in two seasons. As much as we want to forget, in the end there is basically winter and summer and that's what we have to adapt to. The climate has not yet changed so much that these seasons do not continue to occur at this time. We therefore believe that in this process of consideration it is appropriate to support this initiative, to debate, to improve, to make corrections, changes, amendments and amendments which your ladies and gentlemen consider, so that, from the will of the whaler trade and the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, this recovery of powers for the Balearic Islands can be seen in the light of the need for our traders to maintain a certain balance with the large operators. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Melià. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u43	Thank you very much. I have followed his intervention carefully and, fundamentally, what I have heard has been ideology, ideology and ideology. You say you've talked to a lot of traders. We, of course, have also spoken and spoken with traders, but they tell us different things. Keep in mind, moreover, that its proposal for a law is to modify the regulation of all Spain, not only that of Balearics, and that, therefore, this can harm not only the trades of Balearics but those of all Spain. We have registered here a number of proposals to improve trade in general, physical trade, small trade, SMEs, self-employment... I've listed them. What have you done about this subject? I have not heard you say anything here, nor a proposal, to improve the life of the trader. I've only heard ideology, ideology and ideology. That if this favors the life of the trader, that if the little trader is going to disappear... hey, back us up! What measures are you going to take? I haven't heard any. What have you done in Parliament? On the other hand, the autonomous communities actually exist in the Spanish legal system, but one thing is that they exist and exercise their competences and another is that they break the unity of the market. That is the risk we have in Spain, that we go to seventeen different models of retail trade. And that can't be. [[Applauds]] Keep in mind, moreover, that, unlike what you have said in this rostrum, discounts do not go away or come with the current model. The discounts are on. The only difference is that the trader has the freedom to choose when to offer them. There's no problem. If today a trader has a liquidity problem and wants to sell his stock at a lower price, he can do so; but, obviously, he has to wait for the summer or winter sale to arrive, and that means loss and, above all, risk that the company will go bankrupt. I would suggest that you read again what is laid down by the very statement of reasons for the proposed law that you have presented, because you will realize that you recognize a situation of economic improvement, which is planned for that moment. It's an old law proposition, it's out of date. Recognize that it is out of date and that it is not the time to present it. Wait for you, in case we get the economy back, to bring it back here again, because this is not the time. You're wrong, gentlemen. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On a position-setting basis, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u45	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. I would like to thank the group that brought this bill here today and discussed it. We are going to support the consideration of this proposal for a law, because it shows, as you have rightly said, the will of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and, moreover, with the consensus of the sector itself. But not only because of this, but also because we very much agree with the substance and content of what you are presenting today. It is true that we are at a difficult time and that, perhaps, there may be other priorities at the moment, but we do not think that we should let go of the opportunity to solve a problem that already comes years ago. It is, of course, difficult to limit promotional periods, because these have been normalised as a result of liberalisation already in 2012, but, despite this, we do believe that it is time to rethink this reform and, of course, try not to harm or weaken much more the proximity trade. My group, the Basque Group, did not agree with that 2012 decree on measures to ensure budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness, which involved, among other things, the liberalisation of rebates in terms of the periods, dates and duration of rebates, and even eliminates the requirement that the product subject to rebates should have been part of the usual offer and should not have been promoted for at least one previous month; a liberalisation - as I have said - in which this group did not agree because there was a competitive invasion in the field of internal trade, in particular in the regulation of timetables, period of rebates, opening of Sundays and holidays, and regulation of commercial timetables. All this involved the filing of a remedy of unconstitutionality to the effect. But, despite all this, what is clear is that it does not appear, moreover, that the liberalisation of the rebates has succeeded in meeting its objectives, which were, on the one hand, the dynamism of trade and, on the other hand, to increase sales. Moreover, small trade has been forced to carry out promotions on a constant basis to compete - as you have said - with the big ones and also with online trade, and to be able to stay on the market and compete. In turn, this liberalization has led to a change of habits in the way consumers buy, which have shifted their purchases to the months in which there are discounts, which normally - and as we are seeing - are prior to the period of discounts - for example, at Christmas - which then makes it much less at the time of discounts. For all the above reasons, we are in favour of re-establishing the competences of the autonomous communities and that they can re-establish the periods of discounts to encourage sales and consumption, because they are the ones who know best their social reality and their commercial reality. He also wanted to remind the Socialist Party that it is a liberalisation that his minister undertook to review with small trade there by February 2020, before the pandemic. It is true that there may be - as I have said so far - other priorities at the time of the crisis we are in, but I repeat again that, therefore, we must not let go of the adoption of solutions which, as in this case, we do not think are complex, but rather quite the opposite, and which, moreover - as you have said - must be accompanied by other measures at this time of the COVID crisis. It is a sector that has gone wrong, that is going wrong and, of course, that needs to be helped, because local trade is the social engine and also the driving force behind the social economy. Nothing more and thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u47	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament of the Balearic Islands brings to this plenary a second proposal for a law, which aims to return to the trade rebate regime that existed before the Royal Legislative Decree 20/2012, which liberalised it for the whole sector. On this occasion, I am sorry to inform you that, from my parliamentary group, we are not going to support the inclusion of this text. We cannot do this because, as a liberal party, we firmly believe that competition between companies is the best way to favour consumers and producers, to stimulate sales, to increase employment and to improve the well-being of all citizens, without forgetting, of course, that for competition to be truly effective it must be free and fair. From Citizens, ladies and gentlemen - the liberal party of the real, of those who know that equality without freedom is unbearable and that freedom without equality is also unsustainable - we believe that this issue has its main exponent in equal opportunities and, therefore, we cannot support this consideration. That is what we are talking about today too, ladies and gentlemen, about equal opportunities. Sometimes allowing economic actors to act without any restrictions, far from guaranteeing free competition, involves the abuse of one company against another, involves mismanagement and inequality, and it is necessary to intervene in order to achieve a regulation that can compensate for this situation. In Citizens we firmly believe in freedom and the market, but not as ends, but as the best means to achieve the well-being and happiness of people, because we cannot forget that, sometimes, bad regulation in the end achieves the opposite purpose. It can give rise to practices that run counter to competition and, consequently, against the prosperity and employment of citizens, and the setting by the regulator of the specific periods of rebates we sincerely consider to be more part of a case of bad regulation. Already in 2009 the National Competition Commission, predecessor of the current National Market and Competition Commission, called for the removal of the restriction on the dates of the discount periods in force at the time and recalled that it constituted a restriction on the behaviour of retail trade to the detriment of the variety and diversity of supply by introducing an additional element of coordination between operators. We believe that these reasons, then brought forward by the CNMC, remain in full force. The statement of reasons for this proposed law denounces that liberalization has not meant an increase in consumption. The problem with this statement, apart from lack of support, at least in the exhibition itself, is that it confuses the objective of liberalisation. This is not to increase consumption simply, but to better adapt the supply of each business to its needs. The aim, in other words, is to redistribute consumption between the different trades and in different periods, which have the freedom to decide when they want to put down. Why is this distinction important? Because in order to increase consumption without further concretion one could well have concentrated all this consumption in large warehouses, for example, and have left to his luck the small trade, but it is not so. We believe that limiting the rebates to very specific dates at the end to those who do not help is the small trade, which has a long period of time to be able to carry out such liquidations and rebates as it best considers, when it best comes to it. In any case, it is up to those who propose to restrict freedoms, including freedom of enterprise, the burden of proof that such restriction is in the interests of society as a whole and, at least for what has come to us so far, that proof has not been offered. Moreover, with the thousands of SMEs, autonomous and small businesses with water around their necks, there is no point in depriving them of a tool that will help them regulate their sales and be able to compete with more possibilities. Nor can we forget that the regime that is established in retail trade will have its correlative impact in other areas that depend on it and prominently on its labour market. The following question should also be asked: Do we want to promote this marked seasonality of trade in a labour market that requires the hiring of tens of thousands of people only in a small period of sale so that they will not be able to further develop this work? The goal should be to space consumption throughout the year so that the demand for workers is also the most stable and durable in time. Thus, we could even make it easier for retailers to make indefinite contracts for their staff. With this we do not mean that everything goes well in the retail trade or in the current regulation of discounts. Our parliamentary group, for example, is extremely concerned about issues that do involve unfair competition and that harm small trade, such as false sales, misleading advertising, and if the bill were to do so, they could be sure that we will vote for it. However, as it stands, we believe that it does not focus on the real problems whose solution would help - if they were resolved - small trade, retail trade. It proposes a rather misleading solution, which does not solve anything and which would mean adding much more restrictions to traders who are still experiencing economic problems due to this health crisis. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u49	Thank you, Madam President. We are dealing with a proposal with a positive intention that we see with sympathy, although we are concerned that, regrettably, once again the centralizing impulse is involved because, although it is a matter of returning to an earlier drafting of the law, we must remember that internal trade is the competence of the autonomous communities; in the case of Galicia, exclusive. In any case, we agree on the need for a regulation - here we deal with the reduction - to move from favouring large commercial areas to favour small trade, which cannot compete either in timetables - also important issue - or in price effort with them, according to the liberalized framework in which the law that really prevails is that of the strongest. The BNG is clear that it is a priority and urgent to support small trade, proximity trade; a sector that generates a lot of employment and contributes not only to economic dynamism, but also to the maintenance of our urban structures, our villages, our cities or our neighbourhoods; that is, beyond the essential economic function, it fulfils a social function no less important. We are also aware that legislating in favour of large areas, as the People's Party did with the 2012 regulatory amendment, involves abandoning small trade and tackling a permanent crisis that results both in the closure of many establishments and in the loss of employment and the emptying of many urban centres, especially the historic ones. We are therefore in favour of legislative amendments that favour the survival and dynamism of small and medium-sized businesses, especially at a time when their chronic crisis is aggravated by the consequences of the health emergency. In this respect, we reiterate the proposals of the BNG to draw up a real plan for the rescue of small business and hospitality, which includes all sectors and all problems; we insist, all sectors, without exclusion. I say this because these days, a merchant, a person from Santiago de Compostela, was moving the problem of the small trade associated with the tourism sector, which is being left out of any kind of aid, something that must necessarily be corrected. By the way, what about the EUR 11 billion aid programme announced by the President of the Government in this House? Two weeks later we still do not know when or how it will be distributed, and I sincerely believe that the situation is not for further unjustified delays. It is therefore necessary to stop discussing permanently in the Government, to start acting and to do so now. In any case, despite this centralizing bias, which we reject, for all the reasons set out above, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u51	Thank you, President. Firstly, to welcome the companies of the Parliament who have come to present this bill. From the PeCAT we will give our support to the proposed law presented by the Balearic Parliament amending article 25 of the Law on the Ordering of Minority Trade, in the twofold sense of limiting the period of discounts and clearly establishing that the autonomous communities are the competent administrations to determine those periods. The proposed law regains the text of the law in force until 2012, when the Government of the People's Party modified it from a centralizing perspective, liberalizing the sale seasons throughout the State territory and thus positioning itself against the small trade, which will hardly be able to compete in times and seasons of sale with large-format commercial establishments. The proposal for a law refers only to the regulation of the discount seasons. However, if, as we hope, the proposal is admitted to parliamentary procedure, in addition to giving the autonomous communities the power to decide on rebates, we also propose the return of competence to the autonomous communities in the area of business hours. Sometimes, under the pretext of liberalisation, consumers' interests are to be confronted with the interests of the commercial sector. It's a mistake. We see this at this point in time when the pandemic and the suspension and limitation of commercial activities are leading to a multitude of permanent closures. Dozens, hundreds of town and city businesses are going to disappear, and the population, the citizens, we are going to run out of the proximity trade of multiple products. If the proximity trade disappears, the interests of the consumer will be marred and the towns and cities will be impoverished. We all know that Internet-based trade has come to stay and is replacing proximity and face-to-face trade. We are aware that it will hardly be possible to limit the commercial campaigns that can be carried out over the Internet, but traders and consumers are also aware of the commercial force that the campaigns of face discounts have for the benefit of both traders and consumers. We also know that these discounts can be conditioned by unique circumstances, such as in sun and beach tourist territories or in winter tourist territories, so it is the communities that can best regulate them according to the circumstances of each territory. Sometimes we don't value what we have until we lose it. Trade in the towns and cities of the countries of southern Europe contributes decisively to the conditioning of social life, to the provision of a certain quality of life, represents a high percentage of employment and provides invaluable service to citizens. Measures such as those proposed today by the Parliament of Les Illes Balears with this proposed law will help to keep the commercial fabric of proximity alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u53	Good afternoon, Madam President. He cited his lordship to Don Eduardo Dato, invoking order, freedom and right. I would also like to remind you that I was the one who led Martínez Anido and his famous, by infaust, law of escapes to Barcelona to repress trade unionism. Order, freedom and right that today Spanish democracy, if it can, by revoking prison rights to political prisoners, further diminishes the quality of these principles. Free political prisoners! [[Applauds]] Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Welcome to the ballerina MPs. Today at the Congress of Deputies we are presented with the opportunity to amend the modification of the management of the retail trade committed in 2012. That amendment introduced the liberalization of commercial rebates through the Royal Legislative Decree 20/2012, invoked throughout this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already voted against this measure. We therefore welcome today the possibility of drugging it and thank it for coming from the popular will of a brotherly country. This measure was another piece in the gear of the liberalization of cuts, of the austerity promoted by the People's Party. With this royal decree came one of the already innumerable democratic axes in the history of the Spanish State, a stage marked by the commitment of neoliberalism on the part of this House to dismantle the welfare state, through real unilateral decrees, which oppressed the working classes and invaded powers to further promote fiscal and social expoliation to the Catalan countries. Already in January 2019 the Catalan trade manifested the urgency to face the consequences. Liberalization has led to inequalities, precariousness and conflicts in the sector. Everyone who makes the war of sale on their own. Thus, only the most powerful and online trade can sustain that pace. If the public authorities do not intervene, the commercial offer becomes poorer and, paradoxically, remains in the hands of the large groups, free of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, we must question the effectiveness of these rebates. Prior to the 2012 amendment, traders used them to sell surplus stocks at a good price, to liquidate stocks, as Mr Melià has already explained very well. This scheme now loses its meaning. No one can answer the question: what is the use of rebates today? If anything has contributed to us the current crisis is a clear projection of the poor economic model to which we are subject and, of course, as has been said, only this rule will not make up for it. Large digital platforms monopolize a large volume of proximity sales through online shopping. In turn, our local shops lower the blinds. And it is idle to repeat who, how, where and when they pay their taxes and give effect to their solidarity. We defend the Catalan model of trade, which seeks a balance of formats, which pursues sustainability and promotes social responsibility, and is that the commercial fabric of our peoples, neighborhoods and cities is a fundamental pillar for cohesion in our society. A trading model speaks of a city model and also speaks of a country model. We choose to evolve towards a new hybrid model, a model adapted to new trends, new consumption habits and new shopping experiences. Finding the balance between proximity trade and e-commerce is possible but not creating a competitive jungle. Our parliamentary group welcomes, applauds and will vote in favour of this initiative. One of the tasks of our presence in this House is to put an end to the Spanish state's competitive invasions. As you know, the competence in the field of trade lies exclusively with the Generalitat de Catalunya, and this initiative involves the recovery of our competitive sovereignty for the defence of entrepreneurs, self-employed and trade workers in the Catalan countries, which we will defend in all areas, as usual. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u54	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u55	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. The more or less abrupt paralysis of the last legislatures has generated a phenomenal impasse in the processing of autonomous laws. Now it's time to get back the lost time, so today we finally give entry to two whale texts of different nature. The second of them, which we are currently discussing, basically represents an amendment to the whole of the liberalisation introduced in 2012, as has already been said here. Then, in that law passed by the Rajoy Government, among other deregulation measures, the discounted periods for trade were eliminated. We were told that this would allow us to take advantage of the benefits of market mechanisms for the benefit of both businesses and consumers. The reality, as always, was something more complicated, because the truth is that some companies, indeed, benefited from these measures, basically those large areas with huge volumes of structural stock willing to release it at any time, when best suited to them, and with a business muscle sufficient to generate a minimum commercial attraction through massive marketing campaigns. However, the small trade, the proximity trade, which generates more employment and gives life to the neighborhoods of Spain; the one that raises the blind in the first hour of the morning and has as its main marketing tool its own neighboring prestige or its Facebook or Instagram, it does not have those capacities and, therefore, was clearly penalized. At first glance, then, it would seem that the reasonable thing would be to return to the previous situation but the problem here, ladies and gentlemen, is that the evolution of the last decade and, in particular, of this last year of pandemic has changed everything. We are not faced with the same picture that inspired the legislator to shoot when he drafted the text that is being discussed today several years ago. For starters, exponential growth in e-commerce has completely disrupted the terms of the regulatory debate. According to data from the CNMC, in the last five years the turnover of this item has multiplied by three in our country, while other sources place Spain as the third country globally with the biggest increase in the year 2020; 36%, only surpassed by Singapore and Argentina. Therefore, if the small Spanish trade was already waging an unequal battle against the large areas, it is now adding a new and explosive threat of mostly foreign competition, which to date has been very skilful to escape the fiscal and regulatory rigours faced by the rest of the companies. And if things were already slipping down not too flattering paths, the last year has fallen as God's anger over the small trade. The Bank of Spain's figures on the economic impact of the crisis show a very definite pattern, in which companies with fewer than fifty workers have been particularly affected, the more fewer workers they employ. Among other consequences, this has resulted in an increase in storage costs resulting from the sudden fall in sales in many neighbourhood shops. Precisely, the discount periods were designed to give a more or less consistent and systematic way out of stock excesses, but now those excesses appear to occur, so in this extraordinary context it no longer seems such a good idea to regulate these periods on an ordinary basis. I insist, if what is intended is to help those segments of the productive fabric most hit by the crisis, the measure that we are discussing here today may sound out of time and certainly insufficient to provide a minimal resilience to small trade. At this point in the already long pandemic crisis, it is clear that exceptional measures are needed to save this fundamental sector of the Spanish economy. Other countries in our environment have chosen to offer direct aid to avoid an economic debacle. Thus, for example, Italy is already fully financed lost a minimum of 10% of its companies' billing losses. A percentage that reaches up to 20% for those of smaller size with annual turnovers below €400,000. For its part, Germany has set up an aid fund of EUR 9 billion for companies of up to five workers and another of EUR 15 billion for companies of up to ten workers, in addition to extraordinary aid to cover fixed costs. In Portugal, SMEs with significant falls in their turnover can already receive a lost in-depth subsidy of up to 50% of the rent they pay for their premises and other facilities. And finally, in the case of France, your Government has created a so-called solidarity fund designed to compensate - proportionally more to SMEs - for the loss of turnover over the past year. Therefore, nothing seems more opportune than to take similar measures for Spain. There is no doubt that the State has already made an extraordinary effort in recent months through ERTs, ICO credits, aid to self-employed people, etc., but this will not be enough to meet the present challenge. We therefore look forward to the additional EUR 11 billion announced by the Government a couple of weeks ago to alleviate the agonizing situation of so many companies. Certainly, we do not yet know the details or the time to implement these aids. In any case, and pending their knowledge, we must take into account a number of elements to ensure an effective distribution of these aids: firstly, the fact that large companies have more access to this type of aid than SMEs for various reasons; for management capacity, by catching the regulator; finally, there are several reasons. The aid scheme must therefore recognise this reality in such a way that it compensates for differences and focuses on smaller firms. On the other hand, we must focus on those segments of the business fabric that have been most affected by the crisis. In this sense, the local commercial and proximity fabric fits fully into this category and it would not be understood that it did not have priority in the distribution. Finally, it would be absurd for these resources now available to finance layoffs. Therefore, any direct aid must be subject to the maintenance of employment and activity. Similarly, it would not be fair for companies based in tax havens or using tax engineering to tax below what is appropriate to have access to this aid, to the detriment of those self-employed and honest entrepreneurs who contribute religiously to the well-being of all. Ladies and gentlemen, in these crucial months ahead we are playing the future of the next decade. Let us not lose sight of the great transformations in progress facing the country: the ecological transition, digitisation, the increase in business productivity; but let us never lose, ladies and gentlemen, the perspective of social justice; without it, there is simply no valid country project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Postigo Quintana has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Welcome, members of the ballar parliament, this is your home. The proposal for a law brought to this House today addresses the issue of rebates and returns to periods of rebates twice a year: one at the beginning of the year and one in summer, for a minimum of one week and a maximum of two months, and respecting the legal regime of the autonomous communities. In its day, the Junta de Andalucia, governed by the Socialist Party, the Generality of Catalonia, the Basque Government and the Government of the Canary Islands, filed an application for unconstitutionality. By Judgment No. 18/2016, the Constitutional Court decided the unconstitutionality appeal lodged by the Catalan Government, in which it confirmed the constitutionality of article 28.3 of Royal Decree-Law 20/2012. Look, what trade needs right now, what the entire national productive fabric needs is a different government, a government that helps increase consumption, and how?, generating confidence, with balanced and transparent accounts, being austere and effective, offering certainty to investors, entrepreneurs; a government that does not deceive, does not manipulate and does not run away from its responsibilities; a government that lowers taxes to boost its economy and thus increases its revenue; and ultimately, a government that governs and governs for all. [[Applauds]] A real government that creates jobs, businesses and progress to ensure the welfare state, as the People's Party has always done when the socialist governments have brought Spain to economic ruin. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there have been 207 000 companies lost in the year 2020; trade and hospitality estimate their direct aid needs at more than EUR 12.5 billion; there is an urgent need for a trade-recovery shock plan, which has been being demanded by the sector since before last summer. We are still waiting for the 11 billion announced here by President Sánchez, and while the government is plunged into its disputes and despair, Spain's trade is desperate. On 5 October 2020, our parliamentary group registered a GNP requesting a crash plan for the rescue of internal trade, covering measures related to the extension of ERTs, financial and fiscal support through tax moratoriums and reduction of corporate tax and tax on documented legal acts, reduction of VAT equivalence surcharge, flat rate of EUR 50 for self-employed, moratorium on ICO-backed credit payments, new preferential ICO lines for SMEs, equal working conditions for offline and online trade, administrative simplifications and single window and public advertising campaigns. Also at the plenary session on 2 February, there was a debate on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group calling for a rescue plan for trade, hospitality and tourism, adding to the previous measures additional measures such as the request for direct aid. Both initiatives were rejected by the groups supporting this Government. In the amendment to the General Budgets of the State, our parliamentary group presented a plan to support proximity trade with a budget of almost EUR 1 billion, a plan to help traders, trade fairs and walkers. And more recently, our parliamentary group has tabled a GNP for its debate in plenary, in which it calls for a rescue plan for the productive economy with at least EUR 50 billion. Because this is what is really needed today, ladies and gentlemen, a direct aid rescue plan complemented by measures to enable small trade to take advantage of the potential of electronic commerce, to save with energy efficiency systems, to pay less for its electricity or gas bill with legislative reforms, and to digitise and simplify management with programmes and capabilities. In short, a comprehensive rescue plan that our parliamentary group has been articulating with various initiatives, always rejected by groups that support the Government. The Balear parliamentary group voted in favour, but stating that if the Balear Executive really wanted to help small trade, what would have to be done was to allocate specific lines of aid to it. The debate on whether or not to liberalize discount periods is not new, but what is new is the context of the serious crisis experienced by our economy in general and our trade in particular, as a result of the measures taken by the Government to deal with the crisis and the non-measures taken by the Government to support trade, as has been done in other countries in our European environment. Last week this asymmetry was already debated in the House, in the face of the rejection of the government groups. In the current context, a limitation of the discount period if not accompanied by other measures to support traders could further complicate life. For example, I wonder: will Black Friday be celebrated? In our view, therefore, combining the rights of traders, workers in the sector and all consumers is our duty and duty. We all have to move forward together. In short, ladies and gentlemen, rather than amending the proposed article with this initiative, what would really be desirable would be to undertake an amendment to the Law on the Ordering of Minority Trade. Small trade has changed a lot in recent years with new consumer purchasing habits and yet it has been small trade that has provided us with all our needs in general during the pandemic, with the Spanish model being that of Mediterranean retail trade compared to the Anglo-Saxon model of trade, which we must safeguard and protect because it is part of our culture and our way of being as people and as a society. Let us, then, seize the opportunity and make the proximity and retail trade again the reality that it was, but adapted to the new times that will affect us to live, because Spain needs them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u58	Thank you, Mr. Postigo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u59	Thank you, President. Before we begin and welcome you, gentlemen of the People's Group, you have spent seven minutes asking for shock plans. They could have started by not opposing the biggest shock plan in the history of the European Union, such as the European funds, which have been voting no, no and not every week for a year. [[Applauds]] Man, a little dignity! [[Rumors]] Good afternoon and thanks to Josep Melià, Sebastià Sagreras and Enric Casanova for presenting this proposal of law approved by the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth remembering that we discussed retail trade just one year after living the twelve months that we will always remember, always, as the months that changed our lives. It is precisely tomorrow that one year of the suspension of that Plenary for the first cases of COVID is celebrated for some incursions into Vista Alegre. We've lost very dear people this year. We have had to change the way we relate, our towns, our cities, the habits of consumption, of purchase, I would almost say that everything has changed, and that is the day to day where thousands of small and medium-sized businesses live together a year later. Therefore, if the retail sector, which accounts for more than 5% of GDP, faces the future under the condition of the pandemic, the law that we are debating today was passed at the end of 2018 without, of course, contemplating COVID. No one could imagine a health crisis that would force measures of shock against uncertainty, as Vice President Nadia Calviño said a few days ago. Let us go, however, to the month of April 2018, when the European Commission made public the communication on the challenges of the European retail sector for the 21st century, a road map that shed light on the strengths and weaknesses of the sector. On the one hand, light; households in the European Union spend one third of their budget on products distributed by retailers and access to a potential single market of 500 million consumers. However, it was pointed out that productivity was limping and that we were being less dynamic than other comparable economies. Particular emphasis was placed on the accumulation of regulations as a negative factor in the performance of the sector, and the report also noted the difficulties in adapting to new business models, noting that 80% of retailers were not yet selling online. Those challenges and not others were the ones to be faced according to the Commission as of 2018, and today they are more valid than ever. COVID has unfortunately been a giant and accelerating magnifying glass that has demonstrated the transformation, from productivity, competitiveness and online shopping, of the processes facing the sector in a year that brings us back to 2012 figures. Indeed, as mentioned above, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, encourages measures for companies, workers and customers before COVID-19, which come to certify the Commission's road map. Among other measures, the OECD suggests ensuring liquidity, adapting to and targeting the challenges facing the pandemic, ensuring competition after the crisis and, above all, increasing resilience by diversifying sales channels, helping small retailers to sell online. Therefore, the European Commission and the OECD clearly point us to the future and very concretely to the rise of online commerce; that is, how to deal with change in habits and how to deal with technological giants, who need a clear regulatory framework, quality in employment and timetables, all of which go beyond what is covered by the law we are discussing today. Today, therefore, we are faced with the taking into account of a law with a very specific objective: the management of discount periods, in the face of a new order - so to speak - for trade that requires a comprehensive approach, as the Commission and the OECD demand; a scenario that needs solutions that are neither unique nor short-term and that raises so many questions as answers, that the sector, as is being seen, is undoubtedly debating. They need to be analysed more broadly as they arise today, as it is an approach that goes beyond territorial and competitive boundaries. In fact, the current situation raises questions because the pandemic has created a great paradox, as some experts point out if you consult various sources. Many agree that it has propeled us into the future with a scenario that we might not have imagined so soon. Look at the paradox; on the one hand, the small trade, according to the data published by the Association of Manufacturers and Distributors, has been essential for many families because of its proximity during this crisis. I believe that we in this House have all felt very close to so many SMEs because they create jobs and articulate cities and towns and, also, because they have helped us live this year in this unlived. But, on the other hand, there is no doubt that online sales channels have been fired during these months. Face-to-face has been more essential than ever, but online commerce has also become the new normality and this new economic, technological, social, almost existential normality that affects trade and each and every one of our lives, we really have to face it in a polyhedral and calm way. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no totemic solutions or solutions that can be achieved by amending an article. I wish it could be that way because everything would be so much easier. Certainty is the uncertainty and in the face of the crisis, in the face of the suffering of thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of thousands and thousands of workers, this Government and this group have chosen to respond with shock measures, not empty words. For example, with Royal Decree-Law 35/2020, in support of the tourism sector, hospitality and trade, allocating 51.5 billion to alleviate the fixed costs borne by companies, with liquidity, with the creation of a new section of the ICO's collateral line and, of course, with a battery of tax measures to alleviate the impact of these months. I'm on my way. It is time to continue with these shock measures to give certainty and confidence to a sector that is facing a revolution. That is the path that we now have to prioritize and not another, although any proposal is understandable and understandable. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be time for a wide-ranging debate, framed by the new reality and the new normality generated by the pandemic for the retail trading world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We fire the representatives of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands. Thank you very much for your presence and for defending your initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u61	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on improving the care and promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people. For the defence of the initiative and of the amendment tabled, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u62	Thank you, President. We bring here members of the government coalition and neighboring nationalists a second chance to rectify the error they made in the Senate when the Citizens' Parliamentary Group there presented them with a non-law proposal very similar to this one. In addition, I would like to thank my colleague, Senator Ruth Goñi, for her great work, which opened the way in this matter in an unbeatable way. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is much longer than expected; of course, much longer than when the Moncloa gurus advised us to say that we had already defeated the virus and, of course, much longer than when they brought the government sticker vaccine and it seemed that this was over in two days. [[The Lord]] The pandemic is having very hard consequences and some are in everyone's sight. On the one hand, the great tragedy of the tens of thousands of dead and the pain of families who will never again recover their lives as they were because they will not be able to recover the people they have lost. On the other hand, the tragedy of the economic crisis, closed businesses, ruined people and families with all their members unemployed and with no clear expectation of what lies ahead. These are uncertainties that we should clear up as soon as possible and families to which I want to send, on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the full spirit and commitment of our political force because we know that we will get out of it; I do not know if stronger, as some announcements have said, but wiser, more united and more aware of what is truly important. [[Rumors]] If you read the history of the 20th century, Western Europe is an expert civilization in rebuilding and within that civilization there is a group that knows how to rebuild itself better than the others; that group is the Spaniards. COVID-19 has had a very visible economic impact on health, but there is another health issue that is what my partner Ruth calls the invisible wave and I call the hidden pandemic. [[Rumors]] There are many dramas that are suffering and that plan below radar coverage, hidden dramas by misunderstanding, taboos and very old conceptions of a society that is already past but still alive. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u63	One second, please. [[Pause]] Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u64	The COVID-19 has hit the minds of the Spaniards with all harshness. The health workers have suffered an impressive moral setback; they have seen more patients die than ever before; they have worked hours without rest, days, weeks, and at first without equipment. They listened to the applause of the balconies and knew that Spanish society was with them, but they were not well equipped. The state failed them. On his shoulders the system fell and was the only support that endured the National Health System, but those shoulders have been injured, they have serious mood problems. Seven out of ten doctors have trouble sleeping, six out of ten recognize anxiety. But another of the large groups affected by the pandemic are young people and children. The breakdown of their plans, the disappearance of the future or the cessation of social activities and travel have made a dent especially in the younger ones. These young people suffer, and their parents and grandparents suffer for them. How did it feel to be more hours than ever in front of a screen? Do we know? Do we know how many parents have children who have trouble sleeping, with children who are more irritable, who have a lack of concentration to study, or are reluctant to go back to the streets when they can? Some young people have decided not to go out anymore. Aren't we going to face this problem? How many parents are concerned about the effects of the pandemic on their children? Socialization in the early stages of our life is crucial, it is in our nature. It is no accident that the punishment par excellence in the human being is confinement. Depriving someone of being with others is a brutal punishment. On the other hand, there are the elderly, who have seen how coronavirus mortality was eaten with them. Many of them live life through their children and grandchildren, whom they have failed to see. How'd you guys sit down? How has this affected our elders? In addition, it should be borne in mind that, according to World Health Organization statistics, 93% of the world's countries have seen their health systems absolutely paralysed. We must therefore confront, and urgently, the other major pandemic, which is that of mental health. We propose here today to take mental health out of the tail car and look at the wound that has been generated in the mental health of the Spaniards and put us to work to cure it. We propose a shock plan that emerges from the interterritorial council to address the mental health problems of those groups that have been particularly affected during the COVID, doctors, health care workers in general, the military who have faced the pandemic, the State Security Forces and Bodies, the food distributors, who have also worked in absolute solitude. We would also like to see a plan drawn up for the youngest, to study the possible consequences and to reduce them as soon as possible. You know how important an early diagnosis is in this matter. We need to develop the psychiatry specialties of the child and adolescent. We must put forward a national strategy for the early detection of various disorders. At the Reconstruction Bureau we have already managed to talk about the disorder of the autistic spectrum and ADHD, but we also have to deal with the disorders of food behavior, which go far beyond the pandemic. It takes a mental health strategy that survives, that looks to the future, that stays in time. We must work on public awareness and awareness campaigns to eliminate taboos and prejudices about mental health and suicide, which is the last aspect I want to deal with here today and to which I have already referred more often, the other great scourge that Spain suffers, the great evil silenced. Thanks to Citizens, suicide is already in the agreements of the reconstruction table, but we want it to be also in this GNP. I will tell you one thing that has done good for the government - I have as a rule to highlight what it does well - and that, following what we said and what we agreed at the Reconstruction Bureau, it sent the media a guide to deal with suicide, with good advice. It was a good job of the Ministry of Health. But don't stop in that effort, you have to keep going. Every day ten Spaniards commit suicide, with the corresponding ten broken families. Suicide has more victims than suicide itself. Suicide survivors are also victims. Does the Administration know how to treat suicide survivors? I don't think so, and they do, too. I'm on my way. We want the mental illness in Spain not to pass in solitude nor that the sick and his family are surrounded by misunderstanding and silence. A modern nation does not allow itself to be dragged away by the stigmas and superstition of the past. Mental health is a problem for everyone and often it has a remedy or its effects can be alleviated. For this we must know that we all count on everyone, that when someone faces the dreaded pillow when you have an inner torment know that your country is watching over him and that you can sleep more calmly, because we are all going to do everything in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the formula amendments, Mr Guitarte Gimeno intervenes, first and foremost, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we have only five psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants, being one of the lowest ratios in Europe, where the average is around eighteen specialists per 100,000. The risk of disease, uncertainty, routine change and social mitigation measures have become an adverse experience that threatens the growth and development of young people. As noted in the PNL explanatory statement, since 2017 the World Health Organization has been calling for more specific and more resourced health care for adolescents and young people. Among the objectives he asks is to know the health profile of adolescents in the country with an analysis of the panorama of each territory and he points out that in developed countries the mental health of young people requires more specific attention, because there are self-harmive behaviors, depressive disorders, disorders of the behavior of children, anxiety disorders. On the other hand, many professionals point to the negative impact of the abuse of screens and social networks on the emotional well-being of young people. It is very likely that pandemic time has increased this problem. That is why we are presenting amendments to this GNP aimed at knowing the problem scientifically and dealing with it, as well as assessing the social context in which it is produced, which is a very important issue. Research indicates that one in four children who have suffered isolation from COVID-19 currently has depressive or anxiety symptoms, and other complications, such as sleep problems, appetite, boredom, excessive use of screens, irritability, reduced social life and physical activities and difficulties in concentration, among others. In the face of health problems of such magnitude, such as those we are experiencing, the measures taken so far almost only seem to be aimed at caring for the physical health of the population. However, it is essential to pay attention to the emotional and psychological sphere of the individual, and to carry out actions to prevent future major problems. In the face of this worrying situation, it is crucial to seek solutions. It could help, for example, those that are being applied in the Turolense rural world by Psicara, an association of psychologists and psychologists that emerged on the Teruel campus and that, after more than two years of investing in promoting the importance of mental health, are currently developing the project Remove the crown to the virus, which is working on the emotional management of adolescents and teachers in various educational centers in the Teruel province, with the aim of mitigating the adverse psychological consequences of the pandemic. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to find answers at times of uncertainty, such as the present, and to carry out concrete actions that will allow us to move away from the abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking to show my support for this initiative of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, which emphasizes the need to strengthen the promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people. We are dealing with a priority issue, but even more so, given the growing increase in the problems of these characteristics that have worsened in this long period of health emergency that has been suffering the world for over a year and specifically Spain, as reflected in the revealing CIS study, published a few days ago, with its survey on mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this successful initiative and its self-amendment, the Government is urged to include the promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people as a strategic line within the research plan, and to develop and enhance care for minors in the new Mental Health Strategy of the National Health System. It is therefore a parliamentary proposal that responds fully to the warnings that have been being repeated for years, and that point to a progressive worsening of the mental health of young people, with the particularity that more than half of those who declare that they have any problems do not seek help from that of stigmatization and resort to self-medication. There are estimates that amount to around 20% of the child-child population approaching diagnostic criteria for some type of mental disorder, although for the most part they are of little importance. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is aware of the need to strengthen the care of these diseases, because Injuve himself four months ago brought together several experts who admitted without hesitation the risks of moving towards a mental health epidemic that in the case of adolescents and young people needs measures to strengthen them emotionally, which requires prevention, detection and early intervention. Finally, I would like to refer to Asturias, which has had since 2007 a unit of psychiatric hospitalization for children and adolescents at the Central University Hospital, which has been becoming small precisely because of the gradual increase in these types of problems, which are not alien to the over-exposure to social networks, situations of school harassment as well as addictions, with mobile and new technologies through. I congratulate Deputy Guillermo Díaz Gómez on this good initiative and announced that I have tabled an amendment to promote more capacity for hospitalization specialized in the psychiatry of children, adolescents and young people. I thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for its consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u69	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems good to include the promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people as a strategic line of both research and public health action, the problem is that their proposal is too generic and inconcrete. It was at least before the self-amendment, but under no circumstances does it approach even the root causes of a growing problem. It gives the impression that they approach the psychological suffering of young women and women as a spontaneous phenomenon with no connection to social reality, without looking for what is happening for something like this to happen. However, mental health professionals make this clear and point out that in the consultations young people from the popular classes always come together, coming from families with difficulties and in a situation of social vulnerability and exclusion. Something will have to look at youth unemployment rates above 40%, the lack of vital labour expectations, the dynamics of extreme competitiveness in the academic sphere or the constant criminalisation of youth. We therefore understand that action must be taken on the causes and not only on the consequences of a generation without a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u71	Thank you. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u72	Thank you. We have been saying this for weeks: mental health is an urgent issue that needs to be addressed. It was before and it is now, when the needs have risen and the means remain scarce for attention; what was before a necessity today is an urgency. We know that the Government is working on updating the National Mental Health Strategy and we want it to count and take into account these debates and contributions; it is a good basis. The proposal we are debating today has changed substantially in origin with the self-amendment. We see some of our amendments incorporated, which is positive, and we still lack - and that is very important - the social determinants of health. Living conditions clearly affect our health in general and mental health in particular, so we also need comprehensive social protection policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u74	Thank you, President. To the statement of the non-law proposal I would add the following sentence to complete it:... respecting in any case the competences of the autonomous communities. We share the assessment made in this non-law proposal regarding the need to improve the care and promotion of the health of young people, which will impact on the improvement of their emotional well-being, a process that is even more accentuated in the context of the COVID in which we find ourselves after almost a year of confinement and limitation of the social activities of the entire population, but very particularly of young people and adolescents. That is why we agree with the proposal to include the promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people as a strategic line within the State Research Plan. With regard to enhancing care for minors in the new Mental Health Strategy, we share objectives, although competence in the provision of mental health services is shared between the State and autonomous communities. For this reason, at the beginning of my speech I referred to respecting in any case the competences of the Autonomous Communities in order not to duplicate expenditures and efforts. This is if we look at the initial text of the non-legislative proposal, but if I have to evaluate the self-amendment, I can summarize it with one sentence: several examples of invasion of competences. Finally, I would like to point out that many of the emotional problems, such as depression and anxiety, to which the explanatory statement refers - and to which Comrade Guillermo, who has also submitted the non-law proposal, has also referred - do not stem from issues whose causes or origins are directly linked to health issues but are derived from causes of a more social nature, such as child and youth poverty or the lack of future expectations that society is offering today to many young people. I say this because this debate far exceeds the framework of the State Research Plan and the Mental Health Strategy of the National Health System, to which the non-law proposal refers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u75	Thank you. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u76	Thank you, President. The first time I had an anxiety attack I was 22 years old. I was on the subway on my way out of town, and I thought I was dying. She had been working as a partner catcher for an NGO for about three months and that day had already done the hours stipulated in the contract, but for the third consecutive day this week she needed to double to reach the goals. It was also the third consecutive day that I had to skip college classes and that I was going to eat sitting in the subway car, and my body said enough. That afternoon I was sent home without a leave, because everything went out of my work schedule, but the next day I had to go back to work. Anxiety attacks became increasingly common. Months later, try to kill me for the first time. I survived and didn't tell anyone about it out of fear, out of shame, out of not wanting to be a problem. I was still living with my parents and I felt like I was drowning and I couldn't turn to anyone. When finally, months later, I gathered courage and strength to seek help, I came to my family doctor. It took him five minutes to prescribe anxiolytics and antidepressants, but he was reluctant to drift into psychiatry. I didn't tell him the whole truth either. He didn't give me time to talk about something so painful in what the consultation lasted. The derivation would come a few months later after another period of anxiety. It was March, the psych appointment was given to me by October, and psychological care depended on that first consultation. After three months of taking my pills every day, without any follow-up, I stopped doing it. It was the worst year of my college career. Apathy and stress made me leave six subjects for June. Never before had I suspended an exam, and that same June, when there were still four months left for my appointment with the psychiatrist, I tried to commit suicide again. That same week I talked to my boss to tell him about the situation I was in, that I couldn't continue working, and that I was going to try to get out. He told me that the company, an NGO, could not afford to pay a layoff and I was pressured to sign a voluntary layoff. They left me unemployed, unemployed and in a situation where I couldn't work. I ended up going abroad to live for a while and things got better. However, when I returned, the situation worsened again, I was forced to become independent as I finished my career and had to return to work at the same NGO. The precariousness, the burden of studies, of double hours, of not reaching anything and of always being tired again came to power with me. My relationships with my family and friends deteriorated. I could barely take care of myself. The most absurd things became complicated again. They took me back to med school and again they gave me a psych appointment six months later. When the date came again I had stopped taking my pills and never went. I finished the race, quit work again and found another one where the conditions were better. I worked in hospitality doing twenty hours on weekends and two hours of travel from my home, but anxiety decreased. Then came the pandemic, the confinement, the ERTE that did not arrive, the apathy of every repeated day, the sadness, the agony every time I tried to answer an email or do the end of master's work. Again the desire not to get out of bed, the difficulties to take care of myself, to eat whatever was only to survive, barely to clean up and not to be able to continue. My relationships deteriorated again and self-righteous ideas returned. At the end of the confinement I was given a phone call at my health center and I was referred to psychiatry. Also by telephone consultation, again antidepressants and anxiolytics. A friend accompanied me on a Friday to get the prescription for medication to my health center because, having been calling for a week to ask for it, I had not been able to contact primary care. My doses were running out and I stopped the medication, especially at first. It's very unrecognizable. Once at the door, the staff refused to let me go without an appointment, questioned my version and recommended that if I didn't have any pharmaceutical friends who could pick me up until Monday. In the end, I got them to drop me off at the E.R. and go with the recipe. Four years in the same situation and had not yet managed to see a psychologist. I got it this time. It was June and I was given an appointment for November, but they had to reconsider the gravity of my situation, as a couple of weeks later I was changed to August. In the first session I broke to cry and so I was 45 minutes. Psychological care has undoubtedly been the first time I have found resources to manage these disorders. Still, I fall to the ground as I see the impotence face of my psychologist, who can only give me tools to not let me get over my situation, but that nothing can cope with my precariousness, the fact that I have two careers and two masters and I live with 450 euros per month that he collected from an ERTE for working in hospitality. He ended up making a recognition of the generosity and courage of the one who told me his story and let me tell it to give voice to an entire suffering generation. This story illustrates very well the fact that mental health has been completely neglected in our health system, has transferred responsibility for care and prevention to families and related people, and also exemplifies the approach we take from the United Nations We can when we say that the social and economic aspects and mental health of youth are two sides of the same coin. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, we do not share the approach when it comes to tackling the situation of young people. We have tabled an amendment, you have not accepted it, we have not reached an agreement. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u77	Thank you. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. They will allow me today, that Citizens bring this non-law proposal on the health and emotional well-being of young people, send from my parliamentary group a strong embrace to all those who in our childhood and in our youth grew up and lived with post-traumatic stress after a terrorist attack at the hands of ETA and that we have to see here today their heirs, in the institutions where our relatives rose every morning to give their lives to defend them. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]] The president of the government spends every day on our childhood, with every unsolved crime, with every judicial dismissal of an attack, with every rapprochement of prisoners, with every deplorable propaganda of ETA laundering of this illegitimate government. Focusing already on the PNL that brings us Citizens, of course we support enhancing the mental health care of our young people. It is obvious that we all want them to enjoy physical and emotional health, but also that we must not only take care of it; first we must try not to destroy it, and do you know how we can not destroy it? By doing all the opposite of what has been going on for years throughout the parliamentary arc, that is, by eliminating from politics the manipulation and indoctrination in which boys, if born, are violent and that girls, because they are women, are to be abused. [[Applauds]] Because growing up thinking that your desk mate is a murderer or that, by being born a woman, they will mistreat you, that is violence, is the progressive violence that produces his fanatical passion for facing man and woman. [[Applauds]] Or wanting to impose that the girls now don't want to be princesses and that the boys can't be Superman; that now they, because politicians say it, have to play with Barbies and they have to ask the Kings for a football or a race car. And already, to top it off, they even withdraw from audiovisual platforms films like Dumbo wave from that ten-year-old boy who didn't want to grow up. You'll tell me what bad Peter Pan teaches for not wanting to be an adult and want to enjoy the magic of innocence. That is why we begin by advocating that we stop destroying emotionally and through manipulation our children and young people in globalist and gender-based ideas, because violence is exercised from the moment they want to destroy their clean gaze, their illusion, their spontaneity or their innocence. [[applause]] And children and young people do not have to grow up faced, they have to grow up appreciating the beauty of the family, of friendship or of happiness, and also having hope and having illusions and aspirations; aspirations that the VOCID pandemic and the negligent management of this government have completely truncated. Spain leads the youth unemployment rate in Europe. Children and adolescents have changed routines, games, how they relate, and what has this government done? What are you doing for our young people, to give them back optimism in the future? Nothing, he has done absolutely nothing, and that is why in the VOX Parliamentary Group we bet to establish urgently a comprehensive plan that advocates to unravel the ranking of negative effects in the field of education, work, economic and mental health to our young people, returning them hope, returning them dreams to fulfill. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, Citizens show a lot of data in their explanatory statement; WHO and Pan American Health Organization data; data for 2017 and 2018. The impact report on children and adolescents of the draft State General Budgets, recently approved, does not appear to have been read. In that report, the Government recognizes that there are few epidemiological data on depressive disorders in children and adolescents. We, in our opposition work, ask the Government why knowing this deficiency did not include in the budgets an item to alleviate the lack of a system that would allow such epidemiological data to be available. Do you want to know the seriousness of the government in its response? It is this, two and a half lines to tell us that the methodology for drawing up the budgets does not envisage detailing so exhaustively the purpose of the appropriations allocated. [[showing a writing]] What do we call this answer?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u79	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u80	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. This is dishonoring the name of the Government of Spain. I'm on my way. Remember, stop making slaves of your ideology to children because their souls are perfect and their essence is beauty. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u81	Mrs Redondo Calvillo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u82	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to position my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, in a PNL presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the improvement of the care and promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people, an issue that as the mother of my children - two of them already adolescents - worries me and not so much. Emotional disorders in young people are a public health problem, mainly because of the negative consequences they have for themselves, for their quality of life, well-being and their own development, but also because of the socio-economic and health costs they entail. Of all people suffering from mental disorders, 75% develop it before the age of 25 and 50% develop it during adolescence; in addition, as age progresses, the prevalence of symptoms increases. However, it seems that it is easier to look elsewhere, because this issue bothers a little. For example, we talk about murders, unfortunately, almost daily. In 2018, thanks to the media, we met 290 murders. On the other hand, 3539 suicides occurred and remained anonymous, because no one echoed them. Suicide is the first cause of external death in Spain. In fact, since 2004 it has increased by 50% and for every person who dies of suicide - which is worse - there are 25 people who try to do so. According to WHO estimates, this trend will continue to increase in the coming years and should therefore be a priority on the WHO agenda to take action in this regard. We are so in agreement with the substance of this non-legislative proposal that two years ago, on February 28, 2019, we already recorded a 95% identical to this one. A little over a year ago it was registered by the Citizens' Deputies, and it is so necessary that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has registered it four days ago for its debate in the Committee on Children's Rights and Adolescents. Anyway, no more, more than two years lost, but quiet, each at its own pace. [[Applauds]] That is why, after that time and with a pandemic in the middle, the People's Parliamentary Group has found it necessary to propose an amendment that gives a cross-cutting approach to this GNP, because, in agreement with it, only with health and research we will not reach the welfare of young people, we will not reach their concerns. It would be the beginning, but we cannot stay there and expect that every year the number of desperate young people, the number of suicides or suicide attempts will increase, as the WHO has already warned us. Health and well-being during adolescence depend to a large extent on the opportunities that reach young people to develop their skills and achieve the highest degree of autonomy possible. That is why it is essential, in addition to what was already proposed at the beginning of the non-law proposal and even of all the actions of its self-amendment, a comprehensive education that has a system of scholarships and grants that allows them to face the future in equal opportunities, which is difficult given that Spain is in line with Europe's drop-out rate. A cultural and sporting offer is needed, as it has become more than evident with the pandemic that the Government lacks alternatives. We need to adopt the national strategic plan for children and adolescents, so that we can avoid these situations of vulnerability and that our children and adolescents suffer any kind of violence. Young people need to be allowed access to housing and can be emancipated. The best medicine for most concerns is that they have a job. WHO says that all adolescents and young people have the right to develop in the best possible way, with the aim of being healthy and responsible adults, contributing to society and living a full and happy life. All these measures proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group are aimed at this very point. You say that you do not want it to get out of the health field, because what a pity, because without giving this transversality to this non-law proposal we will remain only at the beginning of the road. We know the problem, we are giving it priority, and this government has a unique opportunity, with funding from Europe, to implement all these measures that young people are calling for. If they are still unable to respond, perhaps this Government does not deserve to be in the Government. Perhaps, those thousands of people who think that we politicians do not serve at all are not so wrong, even if that is so, there we will pay just for sinners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Perez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, the Socialist Group wants to demand and share the urgency and need to address the problem of mental health in young people. Unfortunately, we have not been able to reach agreement with the text and, moreover, we see no reference to the origins of the problem, so our vote will be unfavourable to the process of this non-legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, together with the United Nations, we have tabled an alternative text, a very simple amendment, which, in our view, complemented the text of the proposing group. This amendment proposes that further work should be done on updating the mental health strategy, with specific programmes of child care for young people; that the specialization of child psychiatry and adolescence should finally be brought to light; the revision of care for young people, with priority being given to psychotherapy and the correct use of drugs; that prevention programmes in mental health should be prioritized in vulnerable groups; and that, finally, we should work to eliminate once and for all the stigma unjustly placed on those who suffer from mental health problems. Unfortunately, no one is free to suffer from a mental health problem throughout their lives, although there are certain groups that we know are particularly vulnerable: on the one hand, children and adolescents, as they are at an evolutionary stage in which they have a greater impact on trauma and situations of violence that generate high stress, thus compromising their correct development. Aware of this, this progressive and legitimate Government - said by the fascists - is committed to combating this situation through the Act on the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, which, as you well know, is at a very advanced stage of presentation. Another vulnerable group, ladies and gentlemen, we are young people. At our young age - in my case I am 30 years old - we have already suffered two crises. From the first, from the economic and financial crisis, we were still getting up. Austerity policies, a labour market that lacked opportunities and the few opportunities that there were, precarious, had a terrible impact on the mental health of many very young people ten years ago. As I said, we were still getting up, we were still healing the scratches of this first crisis when just a year ago we were caught up with the second crisis, the health crisis and, consequently, the social and economic effects of it. Our obligation is not only to put in place the means and resources to alleviate the effects that problems may have on the mental health of young people, but also to be able to prevent them as far as possible and as far as we have capacity. Let me now personalise myself in these causes that cause a large part of the mental health problems in adolescents today. In the middle of 2021 there is still school harassment, which has different surnames: machismo, xenophobia, aporophobia, homophobia and transphobia. [[Applauds]] That's what our boys and girls are living in the classroom. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, the hate speeches that we hear here, in this House, are picked up in our homes, they are picked up in our classrooms and every year almost 50 young LGBT people take their lives and almost 950 try and fail to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a social drama, this is not the failure of an institution, this is not the failure of an administration, ladies and gentlemen, it is the failure of society as a whole. Let me echo these words: I want to tell my son's story so that no one will ever experience something like this again, so that it will not be repeated. My son didn't commit suicide because he was the victim of a social crime. These are the statements of Esther, Alan's mother, the young trans who took his life on Christmas Eve 2015. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an isolated case. Continue, continue: A 17-year-old takes his life in Galicia after suffering harassment for his sexual orientation, Diario El Mundo, October 2020. One study points to suicide in 24% of the deaths of young people LGTB, a study referred to by Delphi University and echoed two years ago Medical Writing. I can't go on reading more headlines, ladies and gentlemen, because you know perfectly well what it means. The deep discomfort that emanates from rejection and misunderstanding is directly related to the mental health of our young people, and this is a fact, something that has on alert not only to LGBT organizations, which I take advantage of to thank and recognize their tireless work, but also to many psychiatric services of our health system. I'm done, Mr. President. We must not only show our concern about the problems arising from mental health; we must work and correct the problem at its origin. Therefore, from here, from this rostrum, I wish to express my most absolute rejection of the evil so-called parental pin, which is only the projection of the phobias and hatreds of the parents perpetuated in their sons and daughters. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, recognize that it is a mistake, change and stop this nonsense together; let us unite to deal with intolerance, work together to alleviate the problems of mental health in the present and make a commitment to build a free and diverse society where no one is pointed out to be who he is. And in this you will also find the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by recognizing the meaning of the opportunity of the initiative, and I say so sincerely. I think it is important that we focus on one of the problems that most clearly affects us and that of the mental health of young people. Well, I would say that after hours in this Chamber, young people are too little inclusive; I would talk about the mental health of the general population. This is a problem that has undoubtedly been aggravated by COVID or transit through the pandemic. In any case, once this sense of opportunity has been recognized, I would say that the initiative they present is short because, in the end, it seeks to find solutions to a problem that affects as endemic. And it is true that there is a part of the population that irremediably and independently of the social sector from which it comes or of the living conditions it has can develop some kind of mental illness, but it is no less true, as has already been said by different people who have preceded me in that forum, that many of the causes that are at the origin of the diseases that have to do with the mental health of the youth population or any other sector of society, have to do with the origins, and hence little or nothing say. We said it once in this rostrum and we say it here today. We prefer what Angela Davis says when she says we're not here to accept the things we can't change, that we're here to change the things we can't accept. And your initiative, as I say, is to accept that this is going to happen always and from there to seek solutions. I do not say that the solutions they propose are inadequate, I do not even say that they do not go in the right direction; I do say that they lack retrospectiveness, that they intend to do all this now without considering what has not been done in the last decade is, at least, a rather wrong fixed photo, not to say cheating because it is probably not the will of the person who has done it. But they have already pointed out to him what are the population ratios between professionals, mental health professionals and the rest of the population in the Spanish State and in Europe: there are 5 against 100,000, 18 against 100,000 in Europe. We could also talk to him about the Feafes report, which says that all investment in health has been reduced by more than 6% over the last decade. Something will have to do with many of the ladies and gentlemen here with the cuts in Health, although today we see them deeply concerned about the mental health of young people. Nor has there been any talk of the closures of mental health centres that have taken place in Madrid, Zaragoza and elsewhere over the past decade. Something will have to do with some of the ladies who are here today with these closures, no matter how much they feel about this pain today. But we would also have to talk, for example, about the HSBC report which was translated into Spanish as the report or study on healthy behaviours of young people. They said that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in order not to go further, 21% of young people had three elements that can develop a disease or syndrome in mental health such as nervousness, tiredness, sadness, pain or insomnia. This goes on and on. That before the COVID, probably after the COVID is more. And even more so in women in the Basque Autonomous Community and even more in the humblest neighborhoods, in the working-class neighborhoods. But, as I said, your initiative is short because it does not go into the structural causes and I have to recognise the Group of the European People's Party that they are right when they point out what the structural causes are. - You see, today I am recognizing the virtues of other political formations. They are sure to point out the causes, to go to the root, not to be radical, because what they then pose again disappoints again. He talks about education and tells us about the culture of effort. Okay. Let us bet again on meritocracy when what young people see is that in this country what triumphs is the kleptocracy with or without envelopes and in a way that is not deferred or simulated, but real. We can talk to them about culture and sport, as we are also talking about, and how to improve it and access to cultural supply, while in this country young people see that dozens of groups have been prevented from playing in different places where they ruled because they did not like their lyrics. A curious way to promote culture! Or who have applauded every closure or downfall of a self-managed social centre or a gastetxe. That's the reality they've been offered. We could talk about employment, as they also talk about it, and they talk about encouraging young people to enter the labour market. With what? With labour reforms that have promoted garbage contracts, that have made being a mileurist a dream and not a starting point, that have chronicled youth unemployment above 40%? And of course, we are told about housing and we are told that we need to expand the housing supply. It is normal when 83% of young people under the age of 30 cannot be emancipated from their parents' homes because they have no resources, it seems obvious. But how do you do that? applauding the vulture funds? Is it unravelling? You're betting on the gentrification of neighborhoods? We are also told about health and we are told that we must have personalized, integral and cross-cutting attention. But what about the cuts in social services over the last decade? It is hidden that the leg of the welfare state that had to do with care is broken. We are told - I finish - of the investigation - just of the investigation - when we have just known these days that in Andalusia they are complaining about the reduction of the salary of the researchers. There is too much hypocrisy in this debate and, frankly, I believe that there is little concern on the part of many of the groups. They're squeamish for a problem that needs scalpel. Honestly, too much rope is the youth, too much sane are the youth and too much content and eaten for what we are leaving them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u88	Good afternoon, everyone. Your Honor, good afternoon especially to you, who is proposing the initiative this afternoon. As you have begun your intervention, it seemed that we were in an act of generosity of Citizens towards - you said - the parliamentary groups that support the Government and to which you have defined as neighbours, including us, including the Basque Group. As you are talking about rectifying - you said you come here to give a new opportunity and for the surrounding to rectify the error - my question is for you, that from your seat you cannot answer me with a loud voice, but with body language. What do you mean, this initiative or this initiative? [[Showing From Writings]] The conclusion I draw from reading your non-original law proposal and the self-amendment that you yourselves have submitted is that it is Citizens who corrects it. It is you who are rectifying, who are completely changing the debate that is taking place in this House. There is nothing more to hear from the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups who have preceded me during the speaking time, which everyone has spoken about. Here we are talking in particular and exclusively about the children's group and the initiatives that must be addressed from the research area and from the mental health strategy area, including a specific field and line of action for that group. That's what you're saying here and you're talking about a whole strategy, a shock plan that you're proposing to alleviate the consequences of COVID. And see what are the priority groups for you. In the self-amendment they talk about a shock plan to alleviate the effects of the health pandemic. First of all, health professionals. Second, Security Forces and Corpses, military you were commenting on. And third, finally, if that - they lack to say -, perhaps special attention to young people. Finally. I believe that it is you who are self-amending and rectifying and the truth is that it is regrettable. I have one last question to ask you. Did you really want our support and the broad agreement of this House? Because it doesn't look like it. If you wanted to incorporate in your initiative or in the debate the pandemic variable - it is absolutely reasonable when we are talking about the youthful infant collective and the emotional consequences, of mental health, that that is having -, what you wouldn't have to do is completely change collectives, proposals and actions, which is what you are doing. It was enough with what there was. In our view, it was relevant enough because if suicide before the pandemic was the second leading cause of death in the group of adolescents and young people, after the pandemic became the first, although it is true that as a result of the decrease in traffic accidents. It is also perceived that suicide attempts have increased, according to data from the hospital emergency department of infant and juvenile psychiatry, and that food disorders in this group have increased considerably. Faced with this, what needs to be done is a comprehensive approach as we are doing there where we have government responsibilities by incorporating specific strategic lines for this area into the Euskadi Mental Health Strategy, making much of the investments in mental health aimed at increasing hospitals and day centres to serve these groups, increasing networks and units to respond to food disorders and, of course, incorporating a series of work programmes between different social, educational, occupational and health sectors; all of them, because all of them are needed. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a very important group and a good age in which a number of interventions must be deployed in different fields - social, labour, educational, health care - as I was saying, because the results are actually effective. They suffer a lot from them and the whole family environment, have many consequences in their maturity process and, of course, have dramatic consequences for the well-being of their lives. So, Mr. Díaz, I'm telling you honestly, and not just because I would have gotten a bigger deal, but...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u89	You must finish, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u90	... but because the situation requires it: it had to have left the amendment as it was, since it would have been frankly interesting. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u91	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u92	After today's news, and as it could not be otherwise, I want to start by claiming the freedom of Catalan exiles and political prisoners. [[Applauds]] They were saying right now that you started this initiative by focusing on the emotional health of young people, which we know has worsened enormously after the crisis of the coronavirus, but you have presented us with a text that once again removes the political focus of young people. Ladies and gentlemen, suicide has been the leading cause of death among young people for years. We have long been alerting ourselves to the social emergency that this entails and the structural changes that are needed, and that is why we want to focus on this today. They are mistaken if they think that confinement is the main cause of the worsening emotional health of young women and women. The causes are in the decisions made in places like this Congress. There are specific direct and responsible causes. In 2010, the Socialist Party drew up a labor reform that broadened the assumptions of cheap layoffs that Aznar had created for young people including also older people or long-term unemployed. The company was allowed to reduce the time only on the basis of economic reasons, i.e. the job situation is precarious. In 2011, the Socialist Party itself adopted the Aliens Act Regulations, which left the protected migrants without papers once they were eighteen years old, i.e., racist legislation was promoted. In 2012, the People's Party promoted another labour reform that reduced unjustified dismissals. When an employer could not give any reason to lay off, the compensation went from the cost of forty-five days to just thirty-three days' pay. It further lowered the price of objective layoffs, so that if an entrepreneur had fewer profits than the previous year - not more losses, but less profits - he could fire you with twenty days of compensation, instead of forty-five days; less than half. Processing wages were eliminated, leaving young workers or workers with little experience without any defence or negotiation capacity, and collective redundancies were allowed without the authorization of the Administration. I mean, the working people were abandoned, and if not, look what's going on with the Bosch factory in Lliçà. A lot of company strength. Bosch can't lock up! [[Applauds]] In the same year 2012, in Catalonia, Convergence i Unió did not want to stay behind and raised university fees by 66%, obliging each student to pay more than an average of 540 euros for tuition. In other words, the access of people with fewer resources to university is restricted. Only the struggle of the student movement and the work of the Young Republicà have managed to begin to reverse, with a 30% reduction. In 2013, the People's Party amended the Urban Leases Act, which reduced rental contracts to three years. The eviction processes were also simplified and accelerated due to rent default. In other words, access to decent housing and a stable life project is impossible. In 2015, the People's Party crowned itself by taking out the so-called Bite Law. With that law, a cop's word became sufficient basis for a fine. You can also be fined only for recording a cop, trying to protect you from the arbitrariness of the cop. For trying to stop a eviction you can get a fine of up to 600,000 euros. In other words, the protest was criminalized, and an example of this is Catalan independence, which has more than two thousand reprisals. Not to mention all the legislation passed in the Parliament of Catalonia that allowed social progress and were brought to the Constitutional Court, putting obstacles to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what causes anxiety to young people, to see that not only did they not count on us as a result of the last crisis, but that our prospects for life worsened; to see that not even today, after being directly suffering the consequences of the second crisis, there are no structural changes; to see that the mass layoffs of young people are not circumstantial, but that they are to stay; to see that as much as we study, as much as we are required, we will end up working on what we can, if we can; to see that those who are currently emancipated before the age of thirty are privileged, and to see that if we organize...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u93	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u94	I'm done. ...and we mobilize to defend our rights we are criminalized and will even be repressed. Esquerra Republicana and Jovent Republicà will fight for a present and a future worthy of young people and for a republic of the Paisoscatalans that is feminist, ecological and economically just. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u95	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u96	We are working on a transactional that we will soon bring to the Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u97	Thank you. - THE EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PLURILING REALITY AND LINGUSTIC EQUALITY. [[File number 162/000471]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u98	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on multilingual reality and linguistic equality. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u99	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Today we bring this proposal not of law that speaks of linguistic plurality, of rights, the rights that must assist the inhabitants of their own languages different from the Spanish; and when I say that we bring it, I say it well and I stress, because it is in fact ten agents of defense of the languages of the State who present it. Therefore, it is fair to say that this initiative is not Euskal Herria Bildu's, but it comes from Galicia by the hand of A Mesa Pola Linguistic Normalization, from Euskal Herria through Kontseilua, from Aragon through Nogará, from Asturias through Initiative pel Asturianu, and from the Catalan countries on behalf of Omnium, Platform for Language, Ciemen, Cultural Action of the Valencian Country, Valencian School and Cultural Work Balear. Eskerrik asko for doing it. This GNP, ladies and gentlemen, speaks of languages, rights, duties and, fundamentally, democracy, freedom and social progress; and, at the same time, it speaks of repeated breaches that prevent the exercise of those rights, democracy and freedom. This initiative shows that, in the Spanish State, 45% of its citizenship lives in territories with a language other than Spanish, 45%, ladies and gentlemen; we are millions of people who want to be able to live in all areas of our lives in our language, and we are millions who want to do so on equal terms, again something very basic, on equal terms. Look, co-officiality, when given, must mean that one language is as official as the other and that all must have the same rights for all speakers, no more or less. But the reality is not this. Every day we see that these rights are denied to us, and with the aggravation, moreover, that, in doing so, the State fails to comply with international agreements and treaties, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, which, although adopted unanimously by all and all the deputies of this Congress on 18 September 1996, remains unrespected; I have said unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, of this Congress. Is there any point in what is approved in this Chamber if it is not fulfilled? For that is what we demand today, that the agreements be complied with and that rights be respected. We could also cite the protocol following that Universal Declaration or the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, signed 20 years ago by the Spanish State and subsequently ratified, thus becoming a document of compulsory compliance, and neither is it fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has on five occasions assessed compliance with the Charter of Minority Languages, and on all five occasions, the Commission of the Council of Europe has given precise and clear guidelines to the Spanish State Administration to take measures to ensure the linguistic capacity of workers and officials in the co-official languages; as it has on several occasions done with regard to the scope of the Administration of Justice which, as an active and passive measure, has required the Spanish State to amend Article 231 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. And although the state responds to these European demands that steps are being taken, that studies are being taken, the reality is that no decisions are being taken to ensure language rights. Because doing studies, ladies and gentlemen, is not a measure; encouraging, encouraging or helping is not synonymous with guaranteeing. And, of course, it is not defending language rights to make a public offer of employment, as it was recently done, in 2018, to cover hundreds of jobs of the State Administration without the Basque being no longer a requirement, but it will not even compute as merit. That's not co-officiality. All this we say in this GNP speaks of democracy too, because it is a political system that establishes differences between the rights and duties of citizens according to the language they use, that is exclusionary; and also in this the Spanish State must move from declaratory democracy to real democracy, to executive democracy; facts and not words. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no Basque, Catalan, Galician, Asturian or Aragonese who can't speak Spanish today. We are multilingual, and it is this consideration of the prevalence and supremacy of the Castilian that tells us that no, that we cannot live in our language and that we cannot address the Administration in our language... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u100	One second, Mrs. Aizpurua, please. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u101	Thank you. ... which tells us that no, that we cannot communicate with all the public elements in the language we choose and that our languages do not deserve the same respect, impulse and guarantees as the Castilian. It is our languages that face their minority, those that put themselves at risk, and some, such as the Asturian or the Aragonese, with much more gravity and urgency. Not seeing it is pure blindness interested, because yes, in a state that is said to be pluricultural and plurinational they should defend themselves on the part of all the rights of the speakers of their own languages - on the part of all - and if it is not done it will be because it is not finished internalizing that this is a plurinational and plurilingual State. That's the bottom of the problem. That is why we ask this Government, which in theory assumes plurinationality and defends languages, not to miss this opportunity to demonstrate that its defence of a plurilingual State is not simply smoke and to take the necessary measures to keep this wealth alive and ever stronger. We only ask you to recognize, respect and ensure that Catalans, Asturians, Galicians, Aragonese and Basques can live with capitals in our languages with all the guarantees, because we want to live in català, because we swim for living in Asturianu, because we want to live in Aragonese, because we want to make our life in Galicia, Basquer bizi nahi dugulako. I do not want to end without mentioning something as beautiful as our language, the Basque language, is recognized as a value of creation, culture and good doing. That's why I ended up talking about the Goya Awards, and from this rostrum I do expressed special recognition to the actresses, screenwriters, production directors, costume, makeup and music leaders who last weekend gave us a magnificent night with two great films thought of in Basque, from Basque and Basque. [[He ends his speech in Basque, whose text, which he delivers to the Journal of Sessions, is as follows: Zinemaren munduko euskal sorzaile guztiei, bereziki Ane eta Akelarre egin duzue no, sorkuntza eta sorgina hitzak euskararen enbor beretik datzelako, 'Sasi guztien shenetik, laino guztien azpitik... zorionak eta eskerrik asko'.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u102	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Vázquez Blanco spoke by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech in Galicia with a poem by Manuel María: 'The language is the key / with which we open the world: /... / The language is life, / the cuitello of pain, / the murmur of the wind, / the word of love. / Language is time, / is the voice of grandparents / and this short ronsel / that we will leave us.' Ladies and gentlemen, as a Galician I feel deeply Spanish. I, who learned the first words and expressions in this wonderful language directly from my mother's lips, sincerely believe in the survival and future of official languages other than Spanish, but I also consider that Spanish should be considered a wealth for all of us, the Spaniards, and not an alien or imposed language. We must never allow language to be an element of confrontation. The autonomy with co-official languages we have two languages and a linguistic richness that we have to preserve, protect and promote. Languages are not imposed, they are wanted, they are taught, they are learned, they are used and respected, but the imposition is not coexistence but obligation and oppression. Those of us who are lucky enough to live in communities like mine, where several languages live without any problem, have the right and duty to know them. It is cordial bilingualism, the harmonious bilingualism defended by the Spanish People's Party and which in Galicia has had an example of success, without confrontation or threats. As the poem said, language is a key with which we open the world, languages tend to bridge, open doors without impositions of any kind and with tolerance. That is why this initiative of the nationalist parties, this linguistic war, is incomprehensible, because the same day that Mr Sánchez's budgets are approved in the morning, in the afternoon they use languages as a political weapon by taking advantage of them. Nationalists - and I speak especially here for the Galician independenceists - our co-official languages do not owe them to you, it was our grandmothers, our mothers, our writers and artists - Rosalía de Castro, but also Emilia Pardo Bazán - but above all it was the peasants, the sailors, the workers, the Galician people, who knew how to find from the 13th century, in adverse circumstances, the answers so that our language would continue as a vehicle of communication and culture. [[applause]] The Galician does not belong to them, just as the Catalan, the Valencian or the Basque do not belong to the nationalists. You are not the guardians of your treasures, you are of all. I also address other parties at the national level; do not hate us, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, for wanting Spain with a Galician, Valencian, Basque or Catalan accent. Our accent is our best way to be Spanish, we don't want your language wars either. We defend that the European Charter must be complied with by defending, protecting and promoting them within their respective territories, as we defend that the Spanish is protected in those territories where its use is being discriminated against, as in Catalonia, and that necessary balance established by the Constitution is not respected when the Government of Spain has recently decided that the Spanish must cease to be a vehicle language in that territory. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that a language like Spanish should be relegated by those parties that are leading their community to the absolute economic, social, cultural and moral ruin in its independence, populist and totalitarian drift, señors de Esquerra, Junts per Cat and the CUP. The State cannot remain unfettered at the violation of the linguistic rights of citizens in any community or accept any form of discrimination, exclusion or segregation. That is why we are presenting this amendment, because we are not in favour of the impositions; it is not to assume the multilingual reality of Spain that you intend to force in Congress and in the courts to speak and write in the co-official languages, it is absurd; or your demand that at international level you have the recognition that the Castilian has. Can you imagine the documentation of the Ministry of Health in co-official languages sent to WHO? Can you imagine the communication between embassies? Whether the communication between the courts is, for example, in Basque or Galician, does it help the communication of a Galician court of justice with one of the Basque Country? No, it doesn't help. We are not in favour of the most racist linguistic colonialism in the 21st century, which is what you claim. Ladies and gentlemen, languages unite, languages are bridges of understanding and not of division. In front of you, who pose the imposition, we, the People's Party, defend respect, respect the rights of everyone, without using languages as a mechanism of confrontation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u104	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u105	Thank you, President. Mrs Vázquez, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in Catalonia there is neither discrimination against the Spanish nor the Catalan is in danger of disappearing. [[Several Members: Nooo!]] So much barbarity repeated in this rostrum by the People's Party and Citizens about the Spanish is only comparable to the irreverent victimism about the Catalan advocated by some independenceists. The text presented to us today by the proposers is impossible to match with the legislation in force in Spain without a legal and constitutional reform, and you know it, you know that there are points that are not constitutional and do not lead to any good debate. You know that the first point of the transaction we have tried to make is not constitutional. That's why we can't approve something that isn't, because then we end up in court sentences that lead to nothing more absolute. Therefore, if you want to be responsible politicians you cannot bring through the back door points that require constitutional reforms without pointing out, without warning, camouflaging intentions, and you know therefore that no matter what we vote on, that would not be fruitful, and what we cannot do is deceive all of us and deceive the original proponents of this proposal. But what they can't ask of us is that we're irresponsible. We have been, as I was telling you, about to come to an agreement, but you knew from the beginning, and so we told you, that our limit was the Constitution, and you meant to skip it with this. In the end one gets a bitter feeling that the only thing that ended up looking for here by some was a sterile confrontation based on languages. Language cannot be a bold weapon of politics. He has explained this very well many times Antoni Puigverd in his columns in La Vanguardia when he writes that the language is defended by making it as broad a cause as possible between very different political forces, that it is an absolute mistake to turn a language, which has no ideology, into a political weapon. You do not want that, so you do not mind giving political stamp, so the amendment and the negotiation that we have offered you does not end in good port, so the points that lead to nothing of unconstitutionality are maintained, so you ask us for a mortal leap that a government does not act according to the law. We have offered all the channels for what is necessary, the recognition and effective protection of our linguistic plurality, the use of languages in all social spheres and especially in public institutions, to encourage the training of staff in the service of the State in their own languages in all public administrations, and yes, also in justice, as you also requested, in a decisive manner, as is the commitment of the Socialist Party where it governs, as well as to undertake a determined policy also to put an end to the possible linguistic discrimination by acting from all the powers of the State, also at the international level, ladies and gentlemen, we leave it written, also at the international level, in addition to a greater support and momentum still in terms of production and visibility in artistic and cultural creations as an epicentre of visibility of all our languages. But nothing is ever enough. In politics, in democracy, what makes progress is to be at the midpoint, at the point where everyone is moving, where no one is going back. What will happen here today is a real pity, a great missed opportunity, and the saddest thing is that most of you also know it, and even saddest thing is that a minority of you, despite knowing it, do not care. Dear Ones, we have paid other times agreements with some of you, proposers, for the criticisms received and the blunt pressures we have assumed at every moment, and we did so because we believed in some reform, in a project that could be shared, in a necessary advance for our citizenship. You, like Penelope, with your day mat to tear it apart at night, and today it seemed like it was a breakup. What's left for them is to see if now, when the turn to VOX is played, they come airy enough to end all this in the conflict, in the conflagration based on our dear tongues, which in the end seems to be what some ended up looking for. Some of you have told me in the past few days that if we do not present it as this amendment, I might not be allowed to return to my people. I say to you that I prefer the furious criticism of the bench of the right and the right for agreeing a good text with you, constitutional and effective to defend our languages and have to explain a thousand times to leave with the bitter feeling that I will go with today that I have been able to reach an agreement and, for very little reason, for lack of will not to arrive.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u106	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u107	The corporal. They have brought us a PNL converted into a tragala, unilaterally, without any frigate majority and without much will to generate it. We have gone too far to try to channel the effort of so many who had put so much effort into it. We have made efforts, but within legal certainty. In short, what we have tried to do is to be responsible. What they cannot ask of us is that we incur political irresponsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u108	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Of course, the parties that present this initiative have a political criterion. Obviously, when it is said that language is a fundamental instrument for national construction, it is said for something. When the Basque Nationalist Party says that its only language is the Basque, that its language is the Basque, its flag the Ikurriña and its territory is the chimera and entelequia called Euskal Herria, it logically does so with a political criterion. I suppose Esquerra will do the same. Therefore, here we are not talking about languages, we are not talking about the diversity that exists in Spain. It takes advantage of the diversity of Spain, the richness of the diversity of Spain to make politics; politics with a sense, with the national construction. But it's clearly said, and then some of them come out here and fall out of the gallows, but what are we going to do? Here it is said: why do we only want Basque or Catalan at any given time? Why do we want only that language to be spoken? Why do we say in recess to children who stop speaking in Spanish when they are doing it and tell them that they have to speak in Basque or Catalan? Because we want only that language to be spoken, in that territory and with those flags. That is the political objective, but they say it!, that we make up nothing, that they say it in their papers, they say it in their principles. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] The one who says that the Basque is a fundamental instrument for national construction is Bildu, we do not say that. Therefore, diversity is used for that, without already entering into equality, which is already the top! Then it is intended that in a place where 15% at most can speak a language, all those who work at the administration's service to attend to that 15% need to know it. So what are we saying? that all oppositions to government posts are for those who know a language? Will it not be inequality with the Spanish as a whole? [[Applauds]] It is normal for all Spaniards to have as their common language the Spanish language and, in those places where the different languages are spoken - until they have handled it politically and spoiled it to make its future, chimerica and that, of course, will never arrive, national reconstruction - diversity in Spain, obviously within Spain and with the rules that govern us all Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u111	Thank you, President. [[He begins his intervention in Catalan, Basque and Galician, whose text, which he gives to the Diario de Sesiones, is as follows: It is a paradox that the defense of multilingual reality and linguistic equality must be done in Castilà, because of the contrary take the word. It's a bere gauza, euskraz egiten bathed. And the same would happen if I spoke in Galician.]] In this House, 38% of the members come from countries with their own language, be it Galicia, Euskal Herria or the Catalan countries, a percentage that amounts to 45% if we add Asturias and Aragon. This is the multilingual reality that could be expressed in this House, just as in the Parliament of Catalonia we hear Catalan, Castilian and Spider speaking. But on this multilingual reality Spanish linguistic nationalism paints a thick layer of monolingualism and, in this way, what is not seen, what is not heard, does not seem to exist. But we want to exist. This Spanish linguistic nationalism is also manifested in the laws, starting with the Constitution, which states that we all have the right and the duty to know the Spanish, while the other languages, such as the Catalan, only the right. And below the Constitution follow more than five hundred provisions favoring the Castilian over the Catalan, according to the Platform for Language in a 2017 study called Les balances linguístiques; five hundred state-level rules that impose the Castilian on the Catalan. No state-level rule prioritizes Catalan over Spanish. Therefore, we do not propose with this GNP anything other than simply to review these privileges that the Spanish language has, because we want to exist. [[He ends his speech in Catalan, Basque and Galician, whose text, which he gives to the Diario de Sesiones, is as follows: Volem viere tolle en català. Euskaraz bizi nahi dugu. We want to make our life in Galician]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u112	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Aguirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. I was thinking of making an intervention on the basis of the non-law proposal, let us say calm and vindictive, of what the text itself raised, but after hearing certain issues that I have heard, I believe that, unfortunately, we remain fairly anchored in a situation and in a few moments before. Koldo Mitxelena said - and every time we talk about languages I always remember the insignificant teacher - that the euskera is too weak to be used as a bold weapon, and I can say the same thing about Catalan or Galician. When it applies that 'we don't use tongues as a bold weapon' we're always talking about them; nobody thinks that Spanish, for example, can also be used as a bold weapon. Plus, not a gun, shield more than once. I am therefore very sorry to hear your speech, Mr Lamuà, because I believe that it needed to be justified in a situation which is quite compromising for you. Mrs Vázquez, as far as what you have said about how we are going to have so many papers in Galician and Spanish, that judges and so on, if the European Union had adopted that policy with the Spanish, the Spanish would have disappeared from the European Union; no one would speak it, it would not be in any paper, it would be French and English. And that's the point. Imagine if in Europe they had used the same criterion with the Spanish you are using here: the Spanish, zero. Finally, for the Lord of Navarro People's Union: if it were for you, the Basque would be banned in Navarra. They are the only political party that has legislated against its own language, the only party in the world that has legislated against its own language. This is amazing. All in all, we welcome the fact that an initiative that comes directly from cultural actors working for the normalisation and even survival of different linguistic realities can be dealt with here today and can be approved. I would have liked it to be unanimously - it will not be -, I would have liked it to be by a large majority - it seems that it will not be either -. We believe that it is an appeal for the rights of thousands, millions of citizens of different nations and peoples, some with vocation and political personality of their own and others with cultural significance. It is an appeal to equality, as has been said, to respect, to signify, to defend diversity, to promote linguistic wealth and, above all, to repair the damaged, the forgotten, the unbroken, the unfortunately repressed. My arguments are not mine, they are theirs, and we become partakers of these, of the cultural agents who work for these languages. We are signatories to it, so we defend all its points, because, moreover, and on our own initiative more than once - and not only in this legislature, but also in many others - we have been concerned and raised these issues with the government in office. Throughout different legislatures we asked him for explanations, both when they ruled one or the other. We are not going to repeat questions that have already been said: the same rights as those given to the Spanishman with regard to his own language. And the languages are official, they are not co-official, they are official, according to the statutes. What is the point of recognizing a right if the ignorance of the language by the representative of the State Administration, for example, or that of Justice does not allow me to exercise it, even if we are in a place where the two languages are official? Look at the most compromising situation. Linguistic rights are of the people. In a trial, if I can't speak because the part that represents the judiciary doesn't know my language or when I'm going to get the national identity document that I have to administer, the police, nor does it occur to you not only to know it, but to study it, from whom are the linguistic rights that are unprotected, from whose are the disturbed, which are the ones that are repressed, those of the police or mine? Mine, which I know two, of course. I mean, it seems that being bilingual is a problem; what's good is being monolingual, that's what's good. The State has an obligation to ensure linguistic rights in the same way as it must to protect any other right. And, please, we do not pervert the reality - I finish, Mr President - nor distort the facts. Castilian is neither discriminated against nor in minority nor at risk. It is still the language of the State, the dominant language, the language that governs and the language that, if it had not been for clandestine use despite all the prohibitions, risk of imprisonment, fines, exile, etc., would have been almost hegemonic throughout the Spanish State. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is an initiative to support all those who defend multiculturalism, cultural wealth and the rights of all citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you come here with a proposal which, theoretically, says in your title that it is in defense of multilingual reality and linguistic freedom. False, false; neither plurilingualism nor freedom nor equity, because the PNL that you propose is a whirlwind that mixes knowledge with use, anecdotes with categories, and selectively appeals to some international agreements in what interests you, of course. They forget, for example, that the promotion of vernacular languages must be done with respect and without prejudice to the official languages. And, of course, without prejudice to the duty to learn them. Because you are not in favour of linguistic freedom or equality or anything you have said here. What they come to do here is to attack the language we have all given ourselves as a common language, which is Spanish. And let's see if they find out: it's not a legal imposition, it's a wealth we have to understand ourselves independently of the language we're officially using. The Spanish bothers you, it annoys you but very, but very much; it annoys you very much because it is the essential pillar that we have as a country, the pillar of what we have in common. And you need, in your attempt to break what we have in common, to build parallel realities with which to justify Narnia and attempts to take us to Narnia. Because, look, this comes from afar, it comes from Catalan ethnolinguistic nationalism par excellence, yes, and it is done with a question - yes, Mr Baldoví - very important that you, lords of the PSOE, have already eaten - although now you are great - with the Celaá Law, which is the concept of your own language. Because in 1933, in the Statue, you put the concept of your own language and, as you have the property to put the frame to all others, in the end the rest of the statutes have been buying it, and lately you have eaten it with the Lomlou. But this is a problem, because in your worldview, why are you doing this? Because you have the idea that your own language is equal to state, if you have language you have state, and it is useless that there are many more states than languages, since you are still in that. This own language labeling is not a baladi labeling at all, it is a labeling that is not admissible because it is xenophobic - xenophobic - and it points to a very large proportion of the citizens we live in those territories. Because, look, if you say there's a language of your own, you're telling us that the Valencians, the Catalans and the Basques that we live in these territories and that we speak Spanish speak an improper language, okay? And that is to point out xenophobicly. And they also tell us that we have to commit ourselves, and this is what you are trying to do with this GNP. And this is not tolerable because the majority - the majority - have Spanish as their mother tongue and we are as Valencians, as Catalans and as Basques as those who speak Basque, Valencian or Catalan. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it is a beastly and intolerable point of subtle cruelty that reminds us of other very sad episodes of history. And he's not innocent, and if you don't tell Laura Borràs, for example, who signed the Koiné Manifesto, where he said Catalans who spoke Spanish were involuntary instruments of linguistic colonization. Look, we in Citizens cannot tolerate this xenophobic label, and that is why we would have voted no. And you, the Socialist Party, in the amendment you have made have eaten it, eye!, you have eaten it too. Then you say that it does not matter that the Spaniards who use the unofficial languages - not the Castilian - have the same rights in all the territories. And I say: I hope so, because do you know that in Catalonia there are many children who cannot access education in their mother tongue, which is Spanish? Do you know that self-employed people who label in a language other than Catalan are fined? Do you know that in Valencia we are losing capacity and educational dominance by the impositions you are making? [[Applauds]] You see, language promotion policies can never be dogmatic, never, and it is necessary to promote, encourage and protect the use of co-official languages, of course, but it must certainly be done on the understanding that language rights are people's, not languages or territories' rights. Linguistic rights must therefore be protected with other rights. Tell the people in Baleares, where the squares aren't being covered...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u116	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u117	...because doctors don't have the language, whether they're covered or not their rights. And in this sense, I ask you: how many of you have asked the intensiveist in a UCI if he spoke Catalan, he spoke Basque, he spoke Spanish? Gentlemen, a little reasoning and, of course, with your own languages and that ethnolinguistic sectarianism we are not going to vote that yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u118	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we ask any Member from Madrid, Cuenca or La Rioja why they speak Spanish, they would answer without doubt: easy, because it is our language. Normal. That is why only from political and linguistic supremacism can one not want to understand something as easy as if we speak Galician, Catalan or Basque is because it is our language, only for us, unfortunately, it is not so normal. Let's imagine a person from somewhere monolingual in the state, let's say I'm talking about Madrid. He gets up early in the morning, if he is from early morning Spain, and can develop his whole day and his whole life in Spanish with normality. It is not the case of Galicians and Galicians with our language; on the contrary, we find ourselves throughout the day - let us not say life - with enormous difficulties and impossibility to be able to do something that for others is as normal as being able to live in our language. It is, as we say in this GNP, part of a social initiative of entities such as A Mesa pola Normalización Linguística, a question of human rights. So the question is: Is the Spanish State willing to respect the rights of 45% of its people who speak a language other than Spanish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u120	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever felt a red skin? I do, many times. Many people in this state have felt red skins in our own land. I felt red skin the day I went to translate my name into my tongue and the official looked at me with discretion and put on a hundred thousand sticks so I could translate the name. We feel red skins when an agent of authority continually tells us: speak to me in Christian, speak to me in Spanish. We feel, Mrs. Llaguno, red skins when we choose Valencian education for our daughters and the official does not know how to speak and does not know how to teach. Ladies and gentlemen, many times, too many times, many of us feel red skins in our own land. And this democracy has a debt to the red skins of this state. That is why this GNP goes to democracy, to equality, to equal rights. Some speak of separatism and the true separatists are those who do not recognize the right of the people we were born here to live and feel in our own language. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u122	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u123	Good night. I'm going to confess to you that, in preparing this speech, I had the temptation to make a small number here to go out on some zapping show, on TV3's APM, and start talking in Catalan and get kicked out. But seeing the interventions that have taken place, I think it is more interesting to explain this so that everyone can understand it without any problem. First, to record two preliminaries in the Journal of Sessions. Today, the third degree of political prisoners has been revoked and it is a genuine injustice that misses the political courage of this Government in relation to this issue. And another one. Today - it is true - the request has been granted in the European Parliament, but some thought would have to be given to see that with the level of voting that has taken place there is a political problem on the whole Catalan issue. There is a political problem, and there is also a linguistic policy problem in the State. My first words are of appreciation to the entities that have helped us to carry forward this non-legislative proposal. Article 3 of the Spanish Constitution states: The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection. The Spanish Constitution, which so many times throw us in the face. Spain ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Spain committed itself since 1992 and entered into force in August 2001. It is the States that indicate what their languages are and what actions they will take to ensure the highest degree of protection for these languages. Well, the reality is that in Catalonia, in the last five years, for example, Catalan judgments do not exceed 9% of the judicial judgments that are handed down. The reality is that in the administration that depends sometimes there are no people who can care in Catalan for people who speak Catalan. The truth is that there are rules that require the Castilian to ignore the native and official language of the territory. And the truth is that in the end, if Catalan is in the European Union, it is thanks in large measure to Andorra and not to Spain. So what democrat can assume these violations of linguistic rights? I will tell you in your words: what constitutionalist legalist can go against the law, against the very Constitution that you put so much on the table or against the Charter of Minority Languages? We ask you to reflect. Spain committed itself internationally. The sacrosanct Constitution, which you put so much on the table, in the most armored section, in the preliminary title, which talks about unity, the parliamentary monarchy and the social and democratic state of law, speaks about the languages and the role you have to play in the Spanish State, and you today, with your vote on this non-law proposal, are going to send a message. Don't be surprised if there are more independenceists every day...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u124	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u125	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Do not be surprised if there are more independenceists every day because this State, which committed itself to defending the languages proper to the territories, stopped doing its duties long ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u126	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u127	Good morning. Egun on. Good morning. They could recognize the multiple nations under the Spanish State Administration, but not. What you do - and have been trying for more than five hundred years - is to create an artificial Spanish nation, rooted in Castilian hegemony, which progressively suppresses all the others. This is where his homogenizing will is found to gradually end the minority and minority languages, without giving a single hard blow but with soft measures that are gradually putting their survival at risk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is in your hands to be led by the unitary vision of the right or to recognize and respect the multiple nations. That can be summed up in a very simple question: does it have any value for you that the Catalan, Basque, Galician, Asturian, Aragonese or Occitan language still exist? I say this because if you don't have it, it would be good if you said it clearly and didn't make us lose time and, if you really recognize its value - and I find it hard to imagine it being so - you should be able to approve this initiative driven by very different cultural entities, which ask for something as basic as the recognition of minority and minority languages and put an end to linguistic discrimination once and for all. In the Spanish State there are still languages that lack official recognition such as Asturian or Aragonese, which are at risk of being lost due to a lack of political will. There are also recognized languages in some territories but not recognized in others, such as Catalan in the Ponent Strip; either it is put to rest or the abstract territorial division that you built will make it disappear into those territories. Then we have officially recognised languages, but they lack sufficient political support; languages such as Catalan, Occitan, Galician or Basque, which continue to be threatened by linguistic discrimination. There is linguistic discrimination - I look at this, because I have to repeat it several times in this legislature - when a language spoken by a majority of speakers is imposed on a minority or minority language, not the other way around. And we can find different examples of that. I'll talk to you about Catalan, which is my mother tongue. I study at a Catalan university because I know it's one of the few where I can study in my language and it turns out I don't even have the academic resources in Catalan. Recently the students of the mir had to send all the documentation to the State Administration and could not because it was in Catalan. There are several complaints in the Valencia Country of police officers who do not allow them to address them in Catalan, when they have an obligation to understand Catalan. And so I could go all day. In the case of Catalan we find that so that no one can identify with the Catalan countries have been selling a false account that valencià, mallorqui or català are different languages, when they are not; they are simply different dialects. To this end, they have launched a media campaign, which now makes 60% of young Catalans believe that this is the case, and have boycotted relations between the Catalan, Valencian and Illenca institutions, to the point that there is no reciprocity between the Catalan media and even to the point of prohibiting the various governments from communicating with each other in Catalan. There is something else that is forgotten, and it is that Catalan is a language with ten million speakers spoken in four European states and that it does not yet have the official language recognition of the European Union, when it simply depends on the Spanish Government deciding and transferring it to the Council of the European Union. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u129	Thank you, President. I want to start by hugging Raül Romeva and the rest of the prisoners. I was with him today and with Congresswoman Mireia Vehi in an online event when she knew that her third grade was rolling. All my solidarity and, above all, our commitment to continue working for freedom. [[Applauds]] Today we are discussing a PNL that simply asks Spain to comply with what its Constitution says and what those international agreements that we have ratified send. I would also like to thank all those who have led this GNP for their commitment. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] We have talked a lot about languages and also about linguistic diversity and have said many times that this country has no future if it is not able to offer a common project to all its peoples. That is why, of course, and as signatories, we will support this non-legislative proposal. I like this debate about languages very much because, although it is only a GNP, it is very useful to unmask those who, under a supposed defense of legality and the Constitution, what they actually have is a problem with the difference and diversity of their country. Those who deny macho violence or yesterday painted, punctuating with their lies, the feminist mural of Linear City, they and their partners, are the same ones who deny the diversity of this country. They do not accept their own country that they claim to be so defending. Those who use the Constitution to deny the right to decide freedom of expression or even constitutional reform are those who then fail to comply with the Constitution when it recognizes certain rights, such as linguistics. Do you think that there are first languages and second languages, or do you accept, as the Constitution says, that all the languages of the State must have the same recognition and official status must be accorded to those languages which do not yet have it? You just have to answer this question. On the basis of this question there is a maximum: the right of the Administration to address the citizen is not that of the citizen, but that of the citizen to choose in which language it is addressed to the Administration. On the other hand, our rights are currently limited. I cannot address the General Administration of the State in Catalan. Many times in a trial I cannot express myself in Catalan. I can't watch the public televisions of Baleares or the Valencià Country from Sabadell. There are things I can do in one of the two official languages, but I am denied in the other. Why? Why in the Parliament of Catalonia can I express myself in Spanish and, instead, in the Congress of Deputies, I cannot do so in Catalan, Galician, Asturian or Basque? Behind this limitation of rights is clearly the political will of the old centralist institutions to weaken plurinationality and multilingualism, clinging like a nail burning to an idea of Spain that is already expired. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is the autonomous that governs a rural hotel in Guipúzcoa; it is the immigrants who live in Sagunt and speak valencià; it is the shellfish of the Galician ria; it is the trans women of Barcelona or the workers of the Bosch plant of Lliçà d'Amunt, who struggle not to close their businesses. In Spain they are also the Asturian miners; they are, of course, the waitresses of the Arenal Hotel in Llucmajor in Mallorca; and all those people also speak a different language than Spanish, they have the same problems, although they express themselves in different languages. Frankly, I have already lost hope among the Members of the right, I have never had it on the extreme right. That is why I am addressing the rest of the ladies and gentlemen of this Congress. It is an objective fact, it is mathematics, there is no or will be a majority of progress in this Congress without having the forces that we defend the plurinationality and sovereignty of the peoples of the State. This is a reality and must be reflected in the country that we will leave when this parliamentary term is over. This debate should be a consensus, not only in this Congress, but also in any Council of Ministers; it cannot be otherwise. I've just been president. This is a quiet debate; this debate is essentially a mirror between Spain that we were, who we are and who we should be. [[The lady]] These debates are already being resolved in other bilingual countries in our environment. They're warning you. The last elections in Catalonia have halved the result of the parties of a uniform Spain that do not take into account their linguistic diversity: from forty to twenty deputies.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u130	Mr. Mena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u131	I'm done, President. The plurinational and plurilingual future has been knocking for a long time and has come to stay. So, especially to entities, many graces, eskerrik asko, graceful workers, many graces, many graces, and let diversity live. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Salvá Verde has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u133	[[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, delenda est Carthago, said the great Caton. For I do not want to start my intervention, but by repeating the obvious: Bildu must be illegalized because she is heir to ETA, a terrorist organization that made crime, theft, kidnapping, torture and extortion her way of doing politics; because she has never repented or apologized to the victims, and because she continues to aim at the destruction of Spain and the imposition of a totalitarian ideology, opposed to democratic coexistence. [[applause]] Today she is here, awarded for the cowardice of the classic political parties. One of them, an accomplice to the establishment of the Bolinaga doctrine, which, I am afraid, will apply massively by excarcating the ages, several of them genuine serial criminals. It is presented today in this House with an obvious objective: a new attack on Spanish, because the destruction of Spanish is an important, essential element of its strategy of destruction of Spain. That from Bildu they talk about rights is a joke of very bad taste. Until very recently, to whom I did not think like them, ETA applied the shot in the back of the neck or the lapa bomb, authentic Nazi-fascism and communism, which, after all, is exactly the same. [[Applauds]] If not, see how my son's Patrol ended, which I've already taught here several times, but that's how it ended. [[shows a photograph]] And today they claim to defend linguistic rights. No one believes it. Linguistic rights are regulated in article 3 of our Constitution. Let me read it: Spanish is the official language of the State. All Spaniards have a duty to know it and the right to use it. The other Spanish languages shall also be official in the respective autonomous communities, in accordance with their statutes. The richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection. Today, in Spain, the only constitutional right that is violated daily is the right to speak in the common language of all Spaniards. In a part of Spain speaking Spanish has become a nightmare for the citizen on foot, who has no freedom of choice to educate his children in the language he wants; for the career official, limited to enter local administrations, there is no equal opportunity for all Spaniards; for the trader, fined in some autonomous communities for labeling in Spanish. [[Continue your intervention in Mallorcan.-Applause]] Several decisions of the Constitutional Court and higher courts prohibit the system of compulsory linguistic immersion in Catalan. The sentences are not fulfilled, the autonomous governments of one political sign or another ignore them, and I say: Enough! What needs to be defended is the Spaniards persecuted for speaking their own language, and I know a long time about that. [[Continue your intervention in Mallorcan.-Applause]] A total of 580 million people speak Spanish all over the world, and that the whole national territory cannot be freely studied in Spanish or Spanish is a crime. Previously they coexist with the different linguistic modalities - and I can assure you - without any problem, until the politicians arrived and we screwed it up. Today it is not possible to study and live daily in Spanish throughout the country, and I quote: Catalonia, Basque Country, Galicia, Balearic Islands and Valencian Community, where Spanish is penalized. The eradication of Spanish in education is not exclusively due to the action of nationalist political parties. In Galicia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands it was the People's Party, with absolute majority, that has legislated to eliminate or minimize the possibility of Spanish being a vehicle language. In Galicia, with the PP at the hand of Mr Feijóo, a linguistic policy almost identical to the Catalan one is applied, leaving it crushed for an independenceist policy. And let's not talk about doctors and health care, which is something I've been through. Gentlemen of Bildu, do not deceive us. Defending rights today is to guarantee the right to be educated in Spanish throughout Spain, making Spanish a compulsory language and maintaining co-official languages as optional. Defending rights today is defending the right of parents to choose the language of schooling of their children. Defending rights today is to remove the requirement of co-official language knowledge in access to the Public Service, so as to avoid discrimination of any kind. VOX defends that it is the families, not the Administration, who must choose the language in which they wish to enrol their children in the autonomous communities with two official languages. And, once again, it's not VOX that stays alone, it's just VOX. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u134	Thank you, Mr. Salvá. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u135	We continue to work on the transactional and will communicate it to the Bureau both if the result is positive and if not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u136	All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u137	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the draft order of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to include all populations of Iberian wolf in the List of Special Protection Species following the recent decision of the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity with the rejection of the affected autonomous communities, as well as its serious impact on a very important part of the livestock sector of the territories north of the Duero. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the beginning of February, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge unveiled the thunder box after voting decisively in favour of incorporating the Iberian wolf in the List of Species in Special Protection Regime, Lesrpe, which will mean that the species will cease to be kinegetic in the territories north of the Duero. This decision of the Miteco broke, for the first time in the history of a state commission in which the autonomous communities and the General Administration of the State are represented, the consensus with which all their agreements have traditionally been adopted. Castilla y León, Galicia, Cantabria and Asturias, the territories in which 95 % of the approximately 2500 wolves in Spain live, rejected from the point of view the modification of the status on the species and, in the wake of such a change, the demonstrations, marches, concentrations and democratic expressions of protest against a measure that will have important negative impacts on the extensive livestock sector and the rural environment, which feel very threatened. Paradoxically, it will also have consequences for the conservation of an emblematic species whose herds unfold north of the river Duero and we will see, unfortunately, and with the protagonist wolf, very cruel and unacceptable criminal episodes of furtivism, strains and poison. How much I wish I was wrong, but the admirable Seprona is going to have a lot of work! Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very difficult to detail the various resolutions and agreements adopted within the governments and autonomous parliaments concerned, which have been joined by many local authorities and also by virtually all the organisations representing farmers, but they are all in a very similar line. I will sum it up by referring to the extensive and enlightening letter addressed a week ago to the public, in which nothing less than ten autonomous communities and several national agrarian organizations make a historic joint appeal to the ministry to return to the scenario of consensus and dialogue and to renounce the inclusion of the wolf in the Lesrpe. The letter broadly coincides with the content of the initiative I registered the day after my inquiry in this rostrum to Mrs Rivera, which is a reflection of the frontal opposition of the places that house the vast majority of wolves in our country and also of others, which sympathize with those affected. The Miteco should not remain insensitive and impassable to the feelings of the farmers and not hide in non-binding opinions, forcing unprecedented situations in coordinating bodies between the State and the autonomous communities, where dialogue and consensus had always been the sign of identity. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment in those areas where the wolf is often attacked by cattle and farms is of great concern because they fear that the risk of the most important activity of the economy and of employment will be increased severely; a matter which is not resolved by compensation, as the Minister of Agriculture has dubiously raised, using as camel the resources of the CAP, the lure of money, and which despises the feeling of farmers towards their animals. This afternoon we have the opportunity in Congress to urge the Government to reorient its decision on the wolf, to protect the livestock sector, to reconcile the coexistence of the species with measures against rural depopulation and to vote here in Madrid, which the political parties and their representatives commit to the farmers and the autonomous communities affected. There have been a number of parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments to the motion and have already advanced that with the proposals by the People's Group and the VOX Group I will propose a compromise text, because I believe they reinforce the objective and commitment of the Forum in defence of our farmers and the rural environment. I am grateful to the Basque Group for its amendment, which would accept that it is not because of the deletion of my fourth point, with which I would like to see an area of dialogue opened up with the agricultural sector, which I think is essential at this very moment. From the socialist amendment I can only say that it is a formula for moving from lupin alert to supine evanescence. Gentlemen of the PSOE, neither in this matter of the wolf does the double language. In Asturias the very President of the Principality has declared himself in rebellion at the protection that Minister Ribera seeks for the wolf, and her socialist co-religionaries here in Congress are covering the government's campaign against livestock and the rural environment. This representation entitled 'Here, in Madrid, no longer' we have seen it with mining, road infrastructure, railways, industry, and today with an insolidary ecology that prioritises the expansion of the wolf, a wild species that is not in danger of extinction but whose danger and the damage it causes require control measures to try to limit the frequency and extent of its serious attacks on the livestock cabin, that is, the way to earn the lives of thousands of Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it essential that the Government reconsider the decision to include the Iberian wolf in the Lesrpe, as this would seriously jeopardize the viability of many livestock farms and the survival of the rural world. It is also imperative to regain the will for institutional consensus between the State Administration and the representatives of the autonomous communities with whom issues are traditionally addressed and decisions taken within the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. This break in the consensus leads to competing lawsuits with the State Administration in what would be an unusual fact in constitutional Spain, because it would be raised, in the face of the Government's thesis, by four different autonomous communities of three different political signs. In this regard, it also urged respect for the competences of the Autonomous Communities. Finally, I call for the immediate opening of an area of dialogue with trade unions and organisations representing the agricultural and rural sectors in order to try to achieve points of understanding that will allow for a secure coexistence of rural activity and species. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Agirretxea Urresti intervenes, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca has announced that he does not accept our amendment and will negotiate with other groups. We shall see what remains of the final text to decide our vote on the basis of the text to be voted on. We have a motion of inquiry that has been put forward by Foro Asturias and its representative has explained it, which is the result of an inquiry that has been made to the Minister. We are here today with this issue for two fundamental reasons. On the one hand, because it is an extremely serious and important issue affecting many parts of the State and, on the other hand, because it has been managed arbitrarily and ineffectively. So raw, but real. So here are two different issues that have ultimately led to a single problem. That is why we have tabled an amendment to amend it. We do not understand or share this debate in the terms 'wolve yes, wolf no', we refuse, and that perversion causes, on the one hand, dialogue to rot and dynamite and, on the other hand, to have to show positions of force that hinder any understanding. Wolf has always been, the human being has shared territory with the wolf, as well as the human being has fought the wolf and has also protected the wolf. And so far a way has been sought to balance this relationship, that relationship has been regularized, as has been done with other species. The autonomous communities of Asturias, Cantabria, Castilla and León, and Galicia presented an argument to the central government and surprise how, given the strong data that support the positive evolution of the wolf population, as well as the socio-economic conflictivity of the rural areas that host the permanent presence of the wolf, the Ministry has not responded to the demands to contemporaryize the process of inclusion of the wolf in Lesrpe in order to achieve greater consensus and strengthen collaboration dynamics. Not only have the demands of working, first of all, on a shared diagnosis, as would have been logical, and laying down a basis of strategy among all those who are participants and are, in turn, those who suffer from this situation, but they reinforce Kafkian votes in the Commission and step on the accelerator so as to include the wolf in the Lesrpe as soon as possible. What's this about? It seems that it is a question of establishing an ideological position, but we believe that a serious problem should be solved. In any case, the position of the Government is very tense to the already complex reality of managing a species that does not help to sustain extensive livestock activity, which is undeniable, on the one hand, one of the main supports of rural areas in a delicate demographic and socio-economic situation. Since Euskadi, the Basque Government has also positioned itself and the agricultural organizations and the outlaws as well, and it is true that in our case we have not had any serious problems, but what happens is that we do not want to have them, because one of our biggest concerns in Euskadi is that the wolf's permanent presence is incompatible with the extensive livestock model, it is. Extensive dairy sheep herding, prevalent in our mountains, is incompatible with a permanent presence of the wolf. Nor do we have a wolf population in Euskadi; it is a collective that sometimes enters and sometimes exits; it is not native to the territory, that is so. That we would like a possible and peaceful relationship between the wolf and the herd of free and unguarded mountain pastures? Yes, if possible, but it's very difficult. Certainly, we believe that the permanent settlement and presence of the wolf in these mountains of the cantabrian division will alter the already fragile economic and social balance that sustains this model, making it impossible for many of these herds to climb to mountain pastures in summer, seriously endangering the ecological degradation of habitats that will rapidly evolve into shrublands. I want to finish with a few questions. I don't know the answers, but it is everyone's obligation to reflect on them. These are questions that even the Basque Government itself has asked the central Government in order to be able to safely address this presence and expansion of the wolf to new territories. Should we understand that the wolf has a conspicuous right to return to all those territories in which he was ever present in history? Is this a natural and pre-eminent right over other general interests or public functions of the territory?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u141	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u142	The corporal. Would it be possible to limit and limit the presence of the wolf in certain regions? Where should the limit be? Do we want tensions and conflicts with the human presence to set the limit of wolf expansion? These are questions I don't have an answer for, but what I do know is that we have a kind of livestock, for example, in Euskadi, which is very worried. It's not compatible.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u143	Mr. Agirretxea, I'm sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u144	I'm done, Madam President. I had more to say, but I end up saying that we will see what the final text looks like and see if it really responds to our concerns. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u145	Thank you, Mr. Aguirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the wolf, a subspecies endemic to the Iberian Peninsula, a species that symbolizes our wild Iberian fauna and biodiversity. Aren't you really going to defend her? The wolf, indeed, has been here for a long time, many centuries, compatible with livestock in Euskal Herria and in many other places. We must see the wolf as an opportunity and stop seeing it as a threat. Obviously, the wolf is a predator and causes localized damage, but it also brings many benefits. First of all, I'd like us to adjust to science. It has been said here that there are 2500 wolves. Where does that figure come from? Two recent censuses have been carried out, in 1987 and 2014, and the two cast a similar number of herds, slightly below 300 herds. That is to say, four wolves per herd, which is what the scientific community considers, we are talking to a maximum of 1200 wolves, and there has been no positive evolution from the 1987 to 2014 census. Moreover, in fact, the wolf has disappeared in some autonomous communities; it has disappeared in Extremadura and Andalusia, and it is necessary to analyze very well the reasons that have led to this population, because the decision of the Mytico responds to scientific criteria. By the way, the same criteria, Mr Agirretxea, which also led the Basque Government to the protection of the wolf because the wolf in Euskadi is protected, and you are speaking here against the same for the whole State, against what we already have in Euskadi for the wolf. Therefore, we must submit to the scientific criterion, and what the scientists have told us is that the situation of the populations is unfavourable. That is, the wolf is not expanding, the wolf is stabilized and down and has a problem of genetic variability, which is what has made the populations of Andalusia and Extremadura disappear; not being able to cross with other specimens makes the populations ultimately not viable. So, let's leave the story that the wolf is the bad guy in the story. The wolf is an animal that generates wealth and is a wealth in itself; it is an animal that maintains ecological balance and keeps ungulates like the wild boar at bay; it is an antidote to diseases that plague livestock, such as tuberculosis; it attracts a growing tourism and, by the way, a tourism that leaves many resources in the regions. It is estimated that it leaves ten times more a wolf tourist than a hunting tourist. Ask, for example, gentlemen of the People's Party, the mayor of Villaciervos, who belongs to his party, because in the Sierra de la Culebra, wolf tourism leaves the order of 700 000 euros a year. So, let's stop looking at the wolf as a problem and let's look at the wolf, please, as an opportunity. By the way, you're defending hunting, but do you know that wolf hunting increases the damage to cattle? The wolf is a social animal, it is an animal that hunts in herd. What hunters do is decimate those herds and the loose wolves, isolated individuals, are not able to hunt wildly in nature and go to the easiest preys, which are the cattle preys. Therefore, if what you want is to defend farmers, you are defending the opposite, the effect of hunting is the opposite of what you defend. By the way, they talk about a huge problem; let's see, the wolf is true that it causes damage to 0.04% of livestock, but the wolf for decades has not killed anyone, has not hurt anyone, has not attacked anyone. For example, only hunting accidents in 2020 caused fifty-one fatalities. Isn't that a problem? Don't we bring him here? More than six hundred victims, fifty of them mortal. Isn't that what we're talking about? We're just talking about the wolf, an animal that has never harmed people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we agree to make every effort to prevent farmers from paying for wolf conservation. It is society as a whole that has to pay for that conservation, because preserving the wolf is a heritage of all, all and we all have to pay for it and, moreover, the price is very little. For this reason, we promote and support the initiatives of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition in this regard, we propose economic support to prevent the damage by being in lobe territory, to speed up the payments of the damage by helping the autonomous communities - which, by the way, are competent - to help the acquisition and maintenance of mastines and other forms of defense as electric and fenced shepherds, to encourage and support extensive livestock with short marketing channels and, ultimately, to truly support extensive livestock and coexistence with the wolf as, by the way, they are increasingly livestock farmers because, fortunately, there are more and more cattle and cattle who understand that this coexistence is possible. Really, ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow the wolf to go extinct, the wolf is a heritage, the wolf is a cultural, historical, natural wealth. Please, let's protect the wolf. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u147	Thank you, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The motion we are debating this afternoon refers to this government's crazy decision to include the wolf in the Lesrpe unilaterally, setting up an illogical and irregular vote between autonomous communities, a vote to mask the real decision of a truffle government of animalistic demagogy, a government made up of true Talibans who constantly attack the rural world and endorse absurd statements such as that roosters rape chickens, that livestock are the ones that produce climate change, or that extensive livestock farming must be dismantled and meat stopped because it is mandated by the 2030 Globalist Agenda. [[Applauds]] In VOX we have said on many occasions that it is necessary and fundamental to dignify the rural world, to respect the way of life of the Spanish countryside, its demands and its vision on the ground. We have reiterated that for the demographic challenge and in the face of depopulation, a positive ecosystem is essential for profitability and, of course, to help rural families, family reconciliation and birth support in the face of depopulation. A birth that they support in all the countries of Europe, except here in Spain, because the progressive consensus considers that supporting birth is a exploitation of women. [[Applauds]] I said this two weeks ago in the Ecological Transition Commission; it seems that this government from the city intends to turn our rural world into an inhospitable, ageing, demoralized, no activity or profitable primary sector, no agriculture, no livestock, no children, no family, no future and no wolf population. A place more like a horror film than a rural Spain with future and hope. [[Applauds]] This decision by the Government is an attack on rural Spain. Wolf populations are consolidated and expanding, their kinegetic management is controlled by the Administration, the balance was being maintained. The expansion of the wolf in the south of the Duero caused the VOX Parliamentary Group to request in several initiatives to amend the Habitats Directive and we ask again today in an amendment, which will surely accept us Forum Asturias. It is necessary to amend this directive because to the south of the Duero the attacks are multiplying by the wolf causing the Iberian pig, the cod, the lidia cattle in Salamanca or the avile in Ávila to be endangered in the dew. Everything was working more or less, with obvious shortcomings in terms of compensation to farmers and bureaucracy that would have to be improved, but increasing the conservation of the species and with a kinegetic management that gives value to it, in addition to ecological value increasing rural tourism in wolf areas for hunting or observation. To all this, Teresa Ribera and her animal partners from Podemos completely change that successful management and spit in the face of the rural world saying that the wolf cannot be managed cinegetically and that farmers and inhabitants of the rural world have to kneel before the wreckage and expansion of this species. You're irresponsible in this as in everything. They have been portrayed showing how far they are from the rural world; they have not realized what they have done to the detriment of the wolf with this foolish decision; banning legal hunting are encouraging traps, ties, poisons... In VOX we love the nature of Spain, its emblematic species like the Iberian wolf, which, like any species, occupies its ecological niche and has its place. There will be certain areas that because of the type of livestock or the orography the presence of the wolf is incompatible; in these places there will be no wolves, so clear and so simple; for the same reason that there can be no wolves in urbanizations or in the streets of our cities. Who will want their children to play or educate in fields and environments full of wolves without the possibility of being controlled? Which livestock families will remain in constant tension with the wolf in their work as livestock and their own existence, less valued than the wolf's very existence? In VOX we deeply honor those Spaniards who live...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u149	Mr. Chamorro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u150	...that 80% of our national territory, which is the rural world - yes, I finish, president - to those Spaniards who are early in the rural world because, even if they are less in quantity than those who inhabit the cities, they do a major job in favour of the cohesion of our homeland. We must put an end to this demagogic nonsense, for our rural world, its inhabitants and its livestock are indeed in real danger of extinction and we are going to defend them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chamorro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Let me just start with a little description of what is happening on my land, but that is totally extrapolable to the neighbouring territories. The Minister Ribera does not save her from the statement of a non-grateful person in Asturias, nor the Socialist President Barbón, nor even a declaration of special one-person protection, that is, a Vespre to her measure. This inefficient minister is determined to put an end to any Asturian productive sector, and the neighbours cantabrian, Galician or Castilian-Leonese do not have it easy either. First he focused on annihilating the secondary sector, our entire industry is hurt to death by its erratic energy policies, and I don't say it, there are multiple voices. I will only quote one, the one from UGT, which I understand will not be suspicious: in Asturias the sector is an explosive cocktail, which can cause industrial desertification. These are yesterday's statements from FIA-UGT manager Jenaro Martínez. And now, not satisfied with ending the industry, it intends to end our primary sector in the north, our livestock, dairy and cheese sector; in the end, we are heading towards an agro-food desert this time. They say to the Minister Ribera that his intention when he leaves the ministry, let us trust that it is sooner than later, certainly, to devote himself to giving talks around the world, we assume that it must be more profitable than Isophoton, although I certainly don't know who would pay for such conferences or talks on how to minimize human action on the environment. What we did not know was that its solution was to eradicate the human being from the environment, so simple, making it impossible for him to develop any economic activity until he has to emigrate. And, as I said, now the center of its unrelated, radical and baseless policies are livestock farmers with the inclusion of the wolf in the List of wild species under special protection throughout the national territory. In the People's Parliamentary Group, we are, of course, defending the environment; we are, of course, always going to be there; we are, of course, defending the compatibility of biodiversity with human activities; and we are, of course, defending farmers. [[Applauds]] The minister has acted unilaterally ignoring the Spanish territory and with total lack of rigour. He has ignored the opinion of the territories where 95% of the specimens of the wolf, Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and Castile and León and of the four autonomous governments are located; by the way, one of them, the Socialist Asturian, Socialist Sanchist for more information, that is, he is not a rebel baron who is rebelling against Madrid. It has completely ignored the opinion of the livestock sector and its knowledge and experience on the subject. You have ignored that these decisions led to the depopulation of our rural area. He has even ignored the opinion of his colleague in the Council of Ministers, Minister Planas, who, even if he is not the best minister of agriculture we could have, knows something about the subject. And all this complemented by these delirious solutions of their government partners, the representatives of Podemos: subsidizing farmers with the purchase of mastines. Solution of Podemos. But do you know how many bags of food you need a mastin a week? Do you know how many mastines it takes for small, scattered herds like those of the cantabrian cornice for its orography? It's true that his demagogy scares the hell out of him. Today they have been overcome by saying that it is an opportunity and a benefit. It is noted that they have no friends in the rural area, and so they will not have them, of course. Of course, the solution is not to detract funds from the CAP, which have already been scrapped, to solve a problem that you have created on your own. And why talk about the piece of paper made by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Hugo Morán, of Pola de Lena - a council with a large rural area in the heart of the cantabrian mountain range - who knows the problem very well. Citizens are fed up with the frivolity of this socialist-communist government, they want real solutions and actions that allow them to abandon the queues of hunger. [[Rumors]] The corporal. In short, we agree with this motion for a Forum and we have amended it with aspects that we consider necessary to include and with which a compromise will be reached, as Mr Martínez Oblanca has said. We only ask you to leave behind your arrogance and pride and correct, to correctly interpret the Habitats Directive, to support this motion and its amendments and to renounce the corresponding ministerial order as drafted. We ask you, please, for our livestock sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Gazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u154	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a debate for a month on the inclusion of the wolf in the List of wild species under special protection, which groups on the right are trying to manipulate and magnify. They called into question Law 42/2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, called into question the opinion of the scientific committee, endorsed by more than three hundred scientists in this country, and questioned the Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. There are no Kafkian votes in the committee; there are votes; another thing is whether they like it or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard how many of you from this forum have appealed to science and knowledge at the time of decision-making, and today we see clearly that for some of you it has been a pure pose because you only like science when science says what you want to hear. [[Applauds]] Mr Martínez Oblanca - I don't see him, I don't know where he is - says that he defends extensive livestock and cattle ranchers in the territories of the north of the Duero. By the way, we assume you're also defending herds, aren't you? For be included in your language, which does not cost work, that what is not in language does not exist, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[applause]] Involve yourself in your language. They have linked the wolf to depopulation with a lack of absolute, absolute rigor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u155	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u156	Yeah, they don't like...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u157	Excuse me a moment, ma'am. Well, excuse me. Wait a minute, please. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u158	You're very polite. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u159	Mr. Ledesma, silence, please. Mr. Head, silence, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet everyone, please. Mrs. Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u160	As I said, they have sometimes linked, Mr Martínez Oblanca, the wolf to depopulation with a lack of absolute rigour. However, Your Honor, the rural exodus does have a face, but it is not a wolf's; the face is a woman's face, precarious contracts, low wages, lack of access to resources, under-representation in decision-making, imbalance in care. This situation is indeed a problem that needs to be addressed in order to curb depopulation, ladies and gentlemen, and I have never seen you propose anything to alleviate this. Nor have I heard them propose to improve herding sanitation campaigns. Illnesses are the cause of great economic losses. Well, the wolf is a vaccine against ungulate tuberculosis and controls African swine fever that transmits the wild boar. Nor have I heard them propose anything with regard to the demand for young herdsmen and herdsmen who are for the work of the conservation of the wolf, but ask for assistance for the surveillance, for the proper management of the herds, for the guard dogs, for enclosures where to confine their cows. I haven't heard you propose any of this. Why? Because the only interest you have is hunting the wolf. That's why they criticize the model of Asturias. [[Applauds]] That's why they criticize the model of Asturias. I don't know what interests you have, but what I'm sure is that the livestock sector doesn't. If I have heard you call this type of aid that is proposed Euro lures, CAP camels, display the checkbook, quite lacking qualifications, by the way. You - or you, Mr Martínez Oblanca - have a strange and misconception of what it means to accompany farmers with just aids that are paid in time; to recognize the value of extensive livestock farming by supporting it, compensating for difficulties and reducing damage through the use of preventive and defence measures. We are talking about coexistence in the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the government is working for, and that is why we are betting on socialists and socialists. [[Applauds]] We bet on moving forward on an issue that is not resolved today because there is still damage in the livestock sector north of the Duero. What you propose is that everything remains the same, Mr Martínez Oblanca. That is why when they refer to Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente, they cling there strong, but they forget that that happened forty years ago and, fortunately, our society, although you have not yet accepted it, has progressed since then. I humbly believe that this issue should be dealt with differently. Socialists are committed to doing so taking into account scientific opinions in decision-making bodies, cooperating and collaborating with the autonomous communities within the framework of a new strategy for the conservation of the Iberian wolf, with the necessary instruments to give legal certainty to the measures to be taken...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u161	Mrs. Well, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u162	... and building a more effective and fair system for people and nature. It is the twenty-first century and the twenty-first century lights us up. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go on as we did forty years ago. I hope we can meet. The land is giving us the warning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Well. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Strong rumors]] Mr. Cabezón, you called him to order. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u164	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again an initiative is coming to this Congress that shows that this government does not negotiate or listen; it legislates, makes decisions that affect strategic sectors and then raises the consequences. In other words, the Government is once again taking decisions without any consensus, and that must concern us all. Obviously, we are aware that the government has to implement the measures it believes are necessary to carry out its work - it would only be missing! - but, ladies and gentlemen, at least in Citizens we believe that on issues with impacts as transversal and important as the one that should open us up to dialogue today. And if you do not want to dialogue with us, with the opposition, do so at least with the sectors concerned. The initiative we are debating today stems from the decision to include the Iberian wolf in the list of wild species with special protection, a decision that will have serious consequences for our agricultural sector. It is evidence that they deny, the Socialist Group goes up to the rostrum to deny it directly when it is evident; they have a serious problem. The State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity proposed on 4 February that all populations of Iberian wolf be included in the List of wild species under special protection, putting an end to the kinegetic status that it currently has north of the Duero River and, consequently, to the regulated hunting quotas that exist today. This decision was taken without consensus within the committee itself in a vote resolved by the minimum and, more importantly, with the opposition precisely from the four autonomous communities - Asturias, Cantabria, Castile and León and Galicia - most affected by the measure. Ladies and gentlemen, did you not take into account that these four autonomys bring together 95% of the population of the Iberian wolf? They don't talk to them either. In addition, this decision directly affects the rural world, the depopulation of areas already heavily punished, highly dependent on livestock activity and which have been suffering very significant economic losses for a long time from the wolf's attacks on livestock. You do not want to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and that is why you have to throw away the usual. Before the amendment, farmers in the most affected areas already saw how the mechanisms to compensate for the damage caused by the loss of livestock heads on their farms were very poor, which did not cover, by far, actual losses. There is nothing worse than making decisions without thinking about their impact. It's a irresponsibility. I am sorry to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have behaved like irresponsible for making this decision and for the way in which you have taken it. Its measure is rejected by the main livestock associations in the most affected regions. Unilateral decisions on agricultural and livestock policy, without consultation or coordination with those concerned, may, unfortunately, have become the modus operandi of this Government in this respect. My group, as a large majority of citizens, fully shares the objective of protecting the enormous animal and plant biodiversity we have in our country, and the protection of vulnerable species, such as the Iberian wolf, is no exception. Fortunately, everything indicates that the situation of the Iberian wolf in recent years, which was critical, has been improving. But we cannot overlook, ladies and gentlemen, that the pursuit of environmental objectives in a specific area often entails significant risks and costs in other sectors. These objectives must be adequately addressed. Decisions must be considered and their effects analysed in all fields. Before making decisions, talk to the sectors. We have to be objective and see what the effect of the decision is. The new protection regime for the Iberian wolf exposes the rural world of northern Duero and, in particular, livestock farms to the damage that uncontrolled wolf populations could cause. Livestock associations estimate more than 2500 attacks, 3500 dead cattle and 2 million euros in damages only in Castile and León in 2019. Caring for and preserving the species of our rural area is a task for society as a whole, a task for public administrations, businesses and all citizens. We must put in place mechanisms to compensate the rural sector, Mr Martínez Oblanca, mechanisms to compensate the rural sector, of course, and that the Miteco should also be held responsible for such damage. Not only must we see what happens to this legislation, to this new rule, we must support farmers. Our farmers have been in contact with the environment for centuries...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u165	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u166	...working tirelessly for the well-being of society as a whole. We don't have to forget them. We can't leave them behind. We can't leave them. Our agricultural sector needs us, but the Socialist Party does not have them. Prove that they are able to reach consensus because we urgently need consensus. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u168	Thank you, Madam President. The main risk to the survival of extensive mountain livestock is not the wolf, but the harmful policies, at least in the case of Galicia, developed in relation to our agricultural and livestock sector by the People's Party Government. In any case, they are also harmful policies in relation to forest management, mountain and wildlife management, especially wolf management. The BNG is in favour of exploring, as the Galician Government did from 2005 to 2009, all the possibilities of harmonious coexistence between livestock and the wolf, because it is clear that a modern society cannot dispense with the free conservation of this species and with a genetic diversity suitable for its existence, but also that such conservation cannot be at the expense of livestock farmers. This requires preventive means that discourage attacks, media that compensate for damage and, above all, proper management of livestock and wild fauna. Quite the opposite of what the Government of the People's Party and of Nuñez Feijóo has been doing in Galicia. Please note that between 2013,2014, 2015, 2016 and 2018 no aid lines for the prevention of wildlife damage or repair were even called up. It is very easy to understand, the People's Party abandons to its luck the Galician farmers because it is more comfortable to make cheap demagogy with the wolf. So, on this subject, as in almost everything, what is needed is less demagogy and more sustainable management of our livestock and natural resources. To promote extensive livestock farming in our mountains and to maintain the existence of the wolf is to recover, form and make profitable the practice of grazing, the environmental balance, the management of the territory and the fight against forest fires. A tear that beats Galicia every year well deserves that effort. Although we agree with some of the motions for resolutions, not so much the fundamental one, which, in our view, is the first, so we are not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u169	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u170	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, before addressing the issue before us, I wanted to record my disappointment at two judicial decisions that have taken place today. The first is the withdrawal of immunity from the three MEPs, Puigdemont, Ponsati and Comín, which is certainly bad news for European democracy. And, secondly, the revocation of the third degree of Catalan political prisoners. Before going into the matter, I wanted to record these two issues. Ladies and gentlemen, modern, advanced, environmentally sensitive societies, flora, fauna and biodiversity have the challenge of finding a balance, that right point between those wild animals and domesticated animals that grow on livestock farms. That is a tremendous challenge that we not only have here, but that all countries that have a wealth in their flora and fauna have. In Catalonia it passes us with the bear; north of the Duero with the wolf, and with so many other animals it passes elsewhere on the peninsula. That challenge, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge that we human beings have to make of seeking that just point, that just measure that allows us to keep the species alive in order to make that compatible with economic activities and livestock exploitation, is only comparable to another great challenge that we have here, what it is to get the government of the State to stop acting unilaterally or to approve things for the minimum. Because that debate that we are having today, here, is not the debate that was expected of this initiative; this debate that we are having here should have been held at the table where the ministry meets with the autonomous administrations to discuss this; but we are having it here, because the ministry has once again stopped discussing and addressing complex issues with those administrations that are also competent in these matters. And here came the rebound debate here with five-minute speeches per turn to discuss hunting, kinegetic balance and issues that are fundamental and that need long, dense and well thought out debates. With this, Your Honor, we are going to abstain, first of all, because we believe that this is not the place to have this debate, but that it is at the table with the competent regional administrations where that debate should be held, seeking agreement, even if it is harder and more complicated. But we will abstain, above all, to denounce that the Government has once again abused its power and authority to adopt measures without leaving them with the territories and administrations concerned. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u171	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept any of the amendments that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u172	Madam President, I have drawn up a compromise text which has been presented to the Bureau and which incorporates, in addition to the amendments by the Group of the European People's Party and VOX, the initiative of the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u173	All right, well, with those additions, you will be put to the vote. Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in one minute. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to take your seats or to vacate the Chamber quickly.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u174	We are voting, firstly, on the proposal for a law on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea by the Balearic Islands on the Spanish jurisdiction over the damage that the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and other mineral substances may cause. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 110 plus 224 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 110 plus 174 telematics votes, 284; abstentions, 50 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u175	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is taken into consideration. - THE PARLIAMENT OF THE BALEAR ISLANDS, AMENDING ARTICLE 25 OF LAW 7/1996 OF 15 JANUARY, ORDERING MINORIST TRADE. [[Corresponds to case numbers 125/000026/0000 of the XII Legislature and 125/0013/0000 of the XIII Legislature]] [[File number 125/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u176	We proceed to vote on the proposal for a law on the Balearic Islands, amending article 25 of Act No. 7/1996 of 15 January 1996 on the management of retail trade. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 110 plus 224 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 1 plus 32 telematics votes, 33; against, 71 plus 147 telematics votes, 218; abstentions, 38 plus 45 telematics votes, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-09-CD210309.u177	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you very much. Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
