ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u2	Pablo Iglesias lies more than he speaks. It threatens the welfare state, it harms the weakest, it brings us to the populism of Venezuela of Chávez, poverty, ration books, lack of democracy and inequality. He only cares about the control of judges, cops, prosecutors and spies. With him as vice president he could not sleep, like 95% of the Spaniards. Can you imagine this crisis in Catalonia with half the government defending the Constitution and the other half saying that there are political prisoners and self-determination? Where would Spain and the left be? Mr Sánchez, you said all this about your vice president and you were right, but then you lied and the government split up with him. Since then, he has continued to criticize the head of state, to attack the monarchy and the judiciary, to say that Puigdemont is an exile and that ETA has political motivations, to launch a website with the adviser to whom he stole the mobile phone to point out critical journalists and threaten entrepreneurs with expropriations and to sponsor even a convicted terrorist, two for police aggression and another for defrauding Social Security until yesterday they accused the founder of his party for irregular financing; and what is more serious, it has been weeks saying that Spain is a dictatorship in which they can even poison you. Mr Sánchez, this is what you have in your Government and it is your responsibility. When will your vice president cease? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Married, I imagine you have registered this question before last Sunday's election on February 14 in Catalonia, because with which you are falling you are talking about ceasing or resigning... [[Applauds]] Look, my task as President of the Government is to ensure political stability to focus the country and all the Executive's efforts on the three priorities we have: one, addressing the health emergency and vaccination; two, economic recovery and job creation; and, three, social justice. These are the three objectives of the Government: health, employment and social protection. I understand that you are leading the opposition and that you have to criticize the Government of Spain, but I would like you to take on a useful role of opposition with a sense of state and to tie your shoulder; of course, which is critical, but also to tie your shoulder and comply with your constitutional obligations, which renews the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court. In short, Your Honor, you have to choose: the path of moderation or the path of perdition, the path of being a useful opposition with a sense of state or of being an opposition with a rather contradictory project in which in the end what you see is your complex in front of the far right that represents VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u6	Mr. Sanchez, now that you've made them fashionable, less wolves. You were overtaken in Galicia six months ago by the BNG and a year ago by Podemos in Valencia, Cadiz, Madrid and Barcelona, and Bildu in San Sebastián and Pamplona. So a little more humility for you too. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, your government is the Marx cabin, never better said. They are faced in intestinal struggles for everything: on housing, pensions, minimum living income, trans law, masks, Bolivia, Russia, even the Sahara or debt forgiveness. They're even fighting over what Mr. Illa said about the FFP2 masks or another model. And to sustain that chaos you already have too many dishes in the air. How are you going to recompose your engagement with Esquerra by keeping your clamp with VOX and your covenants with Bildu? It has turned the variable geometry of Zapatero into an authentic Tetris or the ibuprofen of Borrell into an overdose of radicality. Not by sending Mr Illa to Catalonia, 90,000 dead will disappear, nor by sending Calviño to Brussels, 5 million people will evaporate. He knows they're going to impose some adjustments on him that his partners aren't going to admit, so follow Draghi's example or he'll end up like Tsipras. And listen to those two hundred left-wing personalities who tell you to stop that infamy now and get Podemos out of the government, and so what we're going to get is, first, to put an end to Moncloa's cage of crickets and, second, let the Spaniards get the dream back. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, Spain needs a government that guarantees political stability, it also needs an opposition that is a State-sense and useful opposition, and that is not under the influence and the complex of the far right. I recommend, Mr. Married, that you see a film by director Joseph Losey called The Servant. It is a film that deals with a traditional aristocrat who hires a servant and in principle is quite happy because the servant fixes all the problems of the house... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u10	What's the result? In the end, the servant ends up imposing his methods within the house and ends up being the one who commands and the lord who obeys. [[Protests]] So, sir, what you have to do... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u12	... what you have to do is stop being complicated with the far right and make a useful, moderate opposition with a sense of state. Opt for the moderation or the path of perdition that he was taught in Catalonia for his complex with the ultra-right. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF MR. LAURA BORRÁS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT RELATIONS BETWEEN CATALUONE AND SPAIN ARE ONLY AN INTERNAL CONFLICT? [[File number 180/00402]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u13	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u14	Thank you, President. Following recent events, does the Government in general and the President in particular continue to think that relations between Catalonia and Spain are only an internal conflict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I have to tell you that from these elections that took place in Catalonia on February 14th, there are some lessons that we need to learn. The first is that there has been a clamorous victory by Salvador Illa and the party of Catalan Socialists. [[Applauds]] A victory, Your Honor, which also has even more merit after all the infuses and slanders that you spilled on the candidate saying that a PCR had been made, that it had not been made, that it had been vaccinated, that it had not been vaccinated. In short, Your Honor, I believe that the victory of Salvador Illa and the party of Catalan Socialists is evident. That victory also shows that a powerful demand is emerging in the Catalan society of reunion and not confrontation, as you have been feeding for too many years. Secondly, Your Honor, there is indeed a conflict, a conflict between one part of Catalan society and another part of Catalan society. This is the case and we have seen it again in the election result. So what is taking place, Your Honor, is a demand for re-encounterment, for dialogue within the democratic legality that we have all given ourselves. Thirdly, in my view, Your Honor, Catalonia needs a different government than we have seen in recent years, a progressive government, a government led by the Catalan Socialist Party and also by the commons. That is what I believe he has demanded and what Catalan society is asking for. Among other issues because Catalan society has said two things: the first, which wants a left-wing exit to this health, economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic - so you do not enter into this equation, because you are a conservative party in Catalonia - and the second, a demand for re-encountering, for dialogue within the lawfulness, which logically has to transcend this blockade that Catalan society has been seized as a result of a failed government that is the one that you lead together with Republican Esquerra and that led to the elections last February 14. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u17	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u18	Thank you. Mr Sánchez, I am not going to ask you to stop deceiving yourself by saying that you are a progressive government or even saying that you are Republicans, but I am going to ask you to stop deceiving the citizens of Catalonia. Do you know what really happened in Catalonia on Sunday? That its model of country lost, that the citizens of Catalonia voted not to expolio, not to repression and not to move on. And the model of country that we defend the Catalan independence forces won. Sunday in Catalonia won the Catalan Republic and also did so with more than 50% of the votes. The country's mandate, therefore, Mr Sánchez, is very clear and consistent, and it is now in the hands of all of us, the Catalan independence forces, to make it a reality. And I'm going to tell you what's going to happen: the Catalan independence forces are going to agree, and we're going to do it out of responsibility, we're going to do it for the country and we're going to do it because this mandate is very clear. Your disastrous decisions are dragging not only the whole of the Kingdom of Spain but also the reputation of the whole of Europe, because when you come out of the media bubble of the Kingdom of Spain you see the low level of democratic prestige of your country, and a good example of this is the last international ridiculous of the European Union led by you, specifically led by Josep Borrell. When we defend the fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia we are also defending the fundamental rights of all the citizens of Europe. And listen carefully, Mr Sánchez: the conflict between Catalonia and Spain was and continues to be an international conflict, and from here we will not stop demanding every day freedom political prisoners, the return of exiles and today also freedom for Pablo Hasel. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u19	Quiet, please. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that the reasonable opinion of Catalan society, what you said last February 14th, is that you want a reunion. What he wants, precisely, is to spell out those expressions of extremism, xenophobia and hatred that are manifested in the far right of VOX, there too, in Catalonia, and also among prominent members of his own candidacy, Your Honor, which are not left behind either in hatred or in the expressions of extremism and xenophobia. [[rumors]] That's what you have to show them, too. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT THINK THERE IS DEMOCRATIC NORMALITY IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00405]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u21	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, do you believe that there is democratic normality in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u23	Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I have said this on many occasions: Spain is a full democracy. It is a democracy that is among the twenty-three full democracies in the world in a study that evaluated 167 countries. It is clear that this is thanks to the struggle of many generations that during forty years of dictatorship and during forty-two years of democracy under the Spanish Constitution of 1978 we have been advancing, we have been strengthening, we have been extending democracy. I also have to say that the Spanish Government is working not to be within those twenty-three full democracies but to be the first of those full democracies, and that, of course, implies an extension in the also democratic habits of defending, for example, freedom of expression, the right to political participation and the extension of rights and freedoms, which is what this Government is in. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u25	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u26	Thank you. I do not need to be convinced that Spain is one of the most advanced democracies in the world; explain to your vice-president of the government, and tell him, in passing, to stop saying sandwiches. I was asking if there is democratic normality in Spain because I really believe that in Spain things that are not normal in a democracy happen. It is not normal for members of the Government, from their comfortable armchairs and mansions, which have served them well to enter politics, to seriously insult Spanish democracy. It is not normal for journalists and the media to persecute and signal. It is not normal for its partners to attack the judges who investigate them for corruption - these gentlemen go to imputation per day; yesterday it touched Monedero -. It is not normal for the Government of Spain to defend criminals convicted of serious crimes and to decide, from these armchairs, who enters or leaves prison; that is not normal. It is not normal that in Catalonia We have suffered again another night of altercations; these disturbances, moreover, are driven by their vice president, by their government partners: they point to judges and radicals burning the streets; it is the pressure of Mr. Iglesias and his separatist partners. It is not normal for traders and hoteliers to ruin themselves with restrictions and then see that in the streets the radicals always do what they want. It is not normal for our democracy to be attacked from within its Government and from outside by its governmental partners, because we had never before had a populist party within the Government in Spain; but we had never before had radical separatist parties as partners of Government. Never before have these populist and separatist parties had so much power and never before had so much impunity. And it is you who have given them that power, and you are the only one who, today, as President of the Government, can stop this drift before they further harm our country. Look, there are millions of Spanish people who are very worried; worried about the very hard health situation; worried about the very worrying economic situation; worried about the desolating political situation in Catalonia and Spain as a whole. I believe in our democracy; I believe that our democracy and our country are strong and they are going to move forward, but we cannot bear to continue to wear out these attacks and that radicals continue to do what they want and you do not move a finger. I ask you, please, to react and act at once before it is too late. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u28	Thank you, Madam President. You refer to the Communist Party of Spain, and I want to say that the Communist Party of Spain, thanks also to its contribution, has been a party that has consolidated and made possible the democracy and reconciliation of the Spanish forty-two years ago. [[Applauds]] In all that radiography that you have done you have forgotten an important good, which is what we saw in the United States a few weeks ago, the danger to democracy posed by the reactionary populism of the far right; a reactionary populism of the far right that lies massively, as it did with the candidate of the party of Catalan Socialists, Salvador Illa; that divides and polarizes Spanish society by chasing, for example, young immigrants or'questioning the gender-based violence of women; and, thirdly, that discredits the democratic quality of our country, saying - as has been said in these General Courts -, Your Honor, that this government is an illegitimate government and is a murderous government. I tell you one thing, Your Honor, we all have to learn from what happened on 14 February, and, in my opinion, the pact with the far right has consequences, Your Honor, and therefore I ask you and the People's Party to break your territorial and local pacts with those who are eating them, which is the far right. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE Vice-President first consider that the fights between the ministers contribute to the democratic normality in Spain? [[File number 180/00410]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u29	Questions to the Prime Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory; question from the Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u30	Thank you, President. Speaking of breaking pacts, the first ones to break are the forty pacts that you have with the independenceists in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice President, we know that lately you have been devoting your time to stripping Jaén of the Army's logistics base and then handling all of your threads to prevent an entire Andalusian province from declaring you a non-grateful person. But, beyond his cacicades, his co-chairman, Mr. Iglesias, has dedicated himself to attacking the foundations of the democratic state he promised to defend; that is, he is the Trojan horse of democracy. There is no excuse for the President of the Government to have not yet ceased. Your Honor, the real democratic normality is to question the rule of law in our country and to do so from the government, and, in addition, to side with a totalitarian regime that attacks us; that is a political betrayal. The main concern of this Government is not the welfare of the Spaniards, because, if it were, you would all have resigned after your management of the pandemic and the economy. Their only concern is power and they are willing to compromise and pay the price; they are willing to double the institutions, to agree with Bildu on the betrayal of the victims of terrorism or to strengthen independence. That's why fighting is so common in your government; one day it's housing, another it's equality, another it's minimum living income; but neither housing nor equality nor minimum living income, the only thing you occupy and worry about is power. Madam Vice-President, do the fights between the ministers contribute to democratic normality in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, more than a question is a relief - I understand it this week - but I will also tell you what is democratic normality: that you accept - that you have not accepted it for nearly three years - the former government and this, that is the legitimate, legal and constitutional, of Spain; that is also democratic normality. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u33	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u34	Your Honor, you've been very predictable. Watch the neurons and tell them next door. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The Economist has arrived to say what we all know, and that is that we are a full democracy despite the government, because Spain has collapsed six positions in the world democratic ranking of which Mr Sánchez spoke a while ago for his abuses of power, moving from the sixteen to twenty-two. Six posts less in a year for their trophies, such as collapsing Churches in the CNI, attacking the independence of justice or placing a political commissioner at the head of the State Attorney General's Office, or the last, hiding the reports of the Council of State in the Royal Decree of European Funds. By the way, Madam Vice President, did you bring him in today? We're waiting for him; we're waiting for him. Mrs Calvo, as you know, in Spain, Andalusia and Jaén, the biggest threat to democracy in Spain is your government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u35	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I have just reminded you that almost three years ago you were constitutionally evicted from the government for corruption. [[Rumors]] In two and a half years you have lost seventeen elections, two generals and one European, and I do not even comment on Sunday. I have realized that you are constantly asking about something that is undermining between your true idea of what democracy is and being the main opposition party. How does this government do things? So, as the coalition governments do - ask your colleagues - with more complexity, representing the evolution of the Spanish political culture that goes towards this diversity, and I have told you on several occasions, but do you know what is underneath this? That the important thing is not how but what this Government does and what it has done in a year, and you have never been when we have been waiting for you to help this country. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And that's how he understands politics. See how he understands the policy he has come here today to confront two Andalusian provinces, and they have decided that the only thing they have to do is change floors. Get a centimeter, see if you're focusing on that, and it's going to happen to you, and I hope not, because you have to play an important role in Spanish politics, and you've forgotten that - when you change your seat - that even though the monkey is dressed in silk... Make sure she doesn't look cute. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: IS THERE A GOVERNMENT ACTION UNIT? [[File number 180/00406]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u37	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, at the outset - and we all remember - this government of Pedro Sánchez was formed on the basis of deception. As the president said, pacting with populism is a serious thing, because we all know how populism ends in Venezuela of Chávez - Pedro Sánchez dixit -, and in practice we are checking daily, week by week, amazed how in so many areas his government is able to hold a position and the contrary. Madam Vice-President, is there a minimum unity of action in this government?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u39	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Not the minimum, maximum. Some have said that we are the most working government in forty-two years of democracy! [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u41	Quiet, please. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u42	Madam Vice-President, I don't know who told you that, but the job you are suffering is to try to agree on two absolutely incompatible factions. I'll give you a couple of examples because I can't be very thorough. In the economic sphere, in Brussels you are committed to reforms which here are exactly the opposite of what you say and, by the way, agree with Bildu. In the social sphere, you yourself, Madam Vice-President, maintain an enormous tension with the Minister for Equality regarding what you call gender. How radical their proposals will be for feminists themselves to take their hands to their heads in the face of the nonsense of the elimination of biological sex and their replacement by that self-perceived concept of gender! You have shown yourself yesterday your division into that law that you call equality, bad call of equality, they voted one thing and you vote another; in fact, you from Podemos vote the same as the People's Party. It is a law, of course, that must be the top priority for workers, traders, self-employed people and small entrepreneurs who are seeing how they run out of income and support of any kind, and here discussing gender. In the area of pensions, you have come to an agreement with all parties except VOX to deceive pensioners, and tomorrow you bring here a law to reduce pensions precisely to mothers with children, a true law without any scruples. At the international level, his vice-president promoted a Bolivarian agenda, a unilaterally decided doctrine on Western Sahara and marked an agenda that was already having serious consequences for Spain's interest. In the institutional sphere, her vice president is also dedicated to attacking the Crown and the judges, like other members of her own government, but this week they have crossed all the red lines, Madam vice president: a democratic government cannot have a vice president who questions the democratic sphere in Spain. Nevertheless, Madam Vice-President, democracy will prevail in Spain because democracy is strong, and it is so strong that it is able to sustain all of you both in the same government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u43	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I'm the first vice president, if you don't mind. [[Applauds]] Today is the morning a little Freudian because I also guess the background. This government is an explicit government of two different parties in the field of the Spanish left that we are uniting a novelty at the national level, well practiced already at the local level and at the autonomic level, but in a completely transparent way. Our unit of action is to have general budgets, to bring forward legislation in this fragmented House, almost always well, to take decisions and measures that can be improved as everything else, but that have protected this country from the pandemic without its help. But look at what you do when you pretend to be the same as us: you are behind the autonomic governments, behind, without giving a face. You do not want to enter the governments to go free, without any responsibility and dragging the People's Party and Citizens to destroy all policies of equality between men and women in all the territories they touch. [[Applauds]] That's what you do. I don't know if it's unity, but it's certainly quite distasteful in relation to our constitutional model of equality between men and women. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRACY MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER DEMOCRACY WITHOUT FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION? [[File number 180/00401]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u45	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. I would like to know, twenty-four hours after rapper Pablo Hasel has entered prison, if the Government considers that there is democracy without freedom of expression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u47	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u48	Mr Iñarritu, it is clear that this is true of democracy itself, and particularly of a democracy well valued by experts external to ourselves on its quality and on its solvency. That's a very easy question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u49	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Calvo, not only Mr. Pablo Hasel, there is also the case of Valtonyc, the case of Abel Azcona, puppeteers, tweeters... The reality is that, beyond the self-propaganda that can be considered a full democracy, I think it is incompatible to declare a full democracy when they have a record, they have the record of artists arrested and persecuted in the world. A minister of his Government said that this denoted a lack, a democratic lack. Not from my point of view, it goes beyond, it's an anomaly, it's an anomaly that doesn't make sense. But it's not just artists. At this time there are twelve people from Navarra, from Nafarroa, who are immersed in a procedure at the National Court for a performance against the monarchy carried out in a political act. The National Police, acting as political police, considered and determined that this constituted a crime against the Crown and has led them to the National Court. Felipe VI himself last week said that there is no democracy without freedom of expression and I agree with him, rather, with the person who wrote him the speech, but see what harm you have done to him that twenty-four hours later a writer from Spanish Radio Television was purged by a label that was considered wrong, beyond saying no lies. Can you tell me whether in these years, in which we have seen labels of all kinds, with falsehoods and lies, there have been other journalists or writers purged by erroneous labels or Spanish Radio Television communiqués in this regard? You have said that you will decriminalize crimes relating to freedom of expression. Can you tell me what timetable, how they are going to do it and whether they are going to take proactive measures in favour of freedom of expression? By the way, finally, are you going to pardon Mr. Pablo Hasel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u51	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, article 20 of the Constitution must be read to you in its entirety because, if you do not read it in its entirety, what has just happened to you now happens, which is left with only half of the situation. Point one, there is not a single right in any democracy in the world that can be exercised absolutely in connection with other rights and with the exercise of all others who exercise their right to their way. Do we get it? Because in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article 20, which enshrines freedom of expression and the prohibition of censorship, there are the limits of honour, of minors and of values that are as important as freedom of expression itself. Do not make a trillary speech about freedom of expression in our country. Do you understand? Point two, this government, as soon as possible, will do a modification work that will also place us in other areas where other democracies have evolved, as simple and as good as that. And three, Mr Iñarritu, in no way is any fundamental right defended with violence, nor freedom of expression in a democracy, in no way with violence. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND Vice-President THAT SPAIN IS A PLENARY DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/00411]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u53	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, you liked that movie because it's a self-referential film, it's about you. You are the young man, the servant is Mr. Iglesias, but there is a difference, and it is that in the film the young man pays the servant and in his government they do it with public money. Mr Iglesias, I understand you when you say that Spain is a democratic abnormality, believe me, I understand you, because a government that harasses the judiciary, that puts a minister of justice and deputy of the PSOE as a prosecutor general, which is part of a party accused of corruption, yours, is a democratic abnormality; that a government silences Parliament, that has three ministers pointed out by a scandal - that of Isofoton - that defends a rapper more than a hosteler or an autonomous or that pays a nanny with public money is a democratic abnormality. It is also a democratic abnormality that his Government more defends the Okupas and then puts a civilian guard at the door of his house to defend it. [[Applauds]] That is a democratic anomaly and you will agree with me, Mr. Churches, that that is not very normal. I therefore ask you: Do you still believe that Spain is not a full democracy? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u55	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Don Teodoro, good morning. Let me first make a bibliographic recommendation, a book by George Lakoff called Don't Think of an Elephant. I do not know if you do not have the feeling that the fundamental topic of discussion in this control session is whether there is full democratic normality in Spain and what means that this is the main topic of discussion in the Congress of Deputies. Answering your question, I wish there was full democratic normality! [[Rumors]] But if there isn't, it's precisely why your party has done it to Spanish democracy. [[Protests.-An honourable Member: Hala!-Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Common May-Galicia in Common]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u57	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u58	Mr. Churches, you never answer anything. That's right, I'm grateful to you that you didn't get into the mortian accent or the poetics of my interventions today, but I'm going to tell you in prose. I will tell you in prose because the Spaniards wonder if, apart from saying you sandwiches, you work something for Spain, because what is clear is that you have a salary, but a job, what is said a job we are not yet sure. [[Rumors]] Therefore, I would also like to give you some thought, Don Pablo. The Spanish Television that you direct is dedicated to putting embarrassing labels of the royal family. For the sake of public service you could also put other labels, as recommended by your Bildu partner. When you appear on Spanish Television: Pablo Iglesias, leader of an imputed party, for example; Yolanda Díaz, that of the 4 million unemployed; Pablo Echenique, Gran Cruz a la Seguridad Social; Isa Serra, deputy of Podemos and sentenced to nineteen months in prison; Alberto Rodríguez, deputy and police striker, or Irene Montero, a minister with advisor and nanny. [[laughs]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are no labels that cover your incompetence. With thirty-six seats you can impose your vision excluding everyone, but many Spaniards today would not have voted for the Socialist Party if they knew you were going to be the vice president, because Mr Sánchez deceived them. That is certainly not a democratic normality. Spain is paying a very high price, but you are not responsible. And I encourage his followers on Spanish Television to put a label on him next time Mr.Sánchez comes out: He lies all the time, he doesn't tell the truth or... [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u59	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I deduce Don Teodoro from your intervention that you think, in fact, that there is no democratic normality, what happens is that for reasons other than us, but then I pick up the glove and we discuss what is normal and what is not normal. I don't think it's normal for Cifuentes to go out of his way and Pablo Hasel to be in jail. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u62	It does not seem to me normal for your party to block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary to continue to control the Second Chamber or whatever it takes from behind. [[Rumors]] It does not seem normal to me that your party has been financed illegally for decades, even before its founding. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u63	Quiet, please. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. I beg your silence, please. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that you change your seat, but I believe that what citizens would simply like is for you to stop stealing, because it is not normal for Don Teodoro. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, it's not normal to pay Jiménez Losantos' middle to lie about the 11-M authorship. Ladies and gentlemen, you come to the Congress of Deputies to insult and kick. And you know what? They will continue to do so for a long time and in the meantime we will continue to rule. [[Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT IS YOUR PRESENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT SPANISH? [[File number 180/00407]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u65	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u66	Thank you, President. I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u67	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u68	Thank you, Madam President. His question was what is contributing to Spain's presence in the Government. I will tell you that we are helping to manage the opposite crisis that took place after the 2008 crisis, putting the general interest ahead. [[Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u69	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, my question was not, my question is. It's a very simple question and what I don't understand is how he's not able to answer. What is contributing to Spain's presence in the Government? It is a very simple question from which the Spanish want to know the answer, the opposition wants to know the answer and this Member, of course, wants information. Because what we are clear is what has brought you personally your presence in the government: you have an official car; you have family income of more than EUR 15 000; you have a public job for your nearest circle, including your affective relationships; you have an army of civil guards guarding your private home; and it turns out that we have just learned that the Communist vice president pack included a nanny publicly funded by all Spaniards, with a high office in the ministry and a level 30 in the administration. Truly, a remuneration of 3700 euros for babysitting with public funding is a real shame. But I'll leave you something, Mr. Vice President. What was the assault on the heavens that Podemos promised? And what do we Spaniards have in return for, because it's still unanswered. I'll sum it up for you. What we have is an arsonist in the Council of Ministers. Two hundred personalities have certainly described him as having recently signed a manifesto demanding his dismissal as vice president, including notable socialists, such as Mr Felipe González or Mr José Luis Corcuera. And you are absolutely right because you are a true arsonist, whose only contribution to Spain is your constant attempts to destabilize our great nation from the government. His last great contribution, calling into question the democratic dignity of our country. No, Mr. Iglesias, in Spain of course there is full democratic normality. The threat is you because our democracy is in sulfide from the moment the Communist Party is in government; a corrupt Communist Party, accused of illegal financing from narco dictatorships. Before history will be the responsibility of the one who has appointed him and the Spanish justice will pass into history the day that disassembles him. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u71	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I don't want to miss the opportunity to remember what you posted on your Twitter account this Sunday: 'Let the land be light to you, my General. Today, more than ever, Intxaurrondo in our heart.' [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] You wrote this elegy in honor of Enrique Rodríguez Galindo, sentenced to seventy-five years in prison - he served four - and expelled from the Civil Guard for his responsibility for kidnappings, tortures and murders; a torturer, a kidnapper and a terrorist. Consuelo Ordóñez, president of the Collective of Victims of Terrorism, replied to you: 'It is of no use for me to fight ETA if it turned out to be the same thing I was fighting, unterrorist with the aggravating state. Whoever justifies terrorism is delegitimized to condemn others.' Your Honor, I do not believe that you are a political force with any kind of state height. You constantly advocate terrorism, you advocate a terrorist dictatorship by claiming your governments and you advocate State terrorism. And now I'm going to address you, Mr. Married. [[Rumors]] I told you here once that you had fed the beast and now the beast was devouring him. You will agree with me that, after what happened on Sunday, what we warned you from that rostrum is confirmed. You came to a party surrounded by corruption, races and false masters and you're going to end up as far-right payoffs. [[rumors]] [[Protests]] Pathetic, Mr. Married. [[Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT EUROPEAN FUNDS MUST BE USED TO STRENGTHENING THE POSITION OF IBEX FRONT OF SMEs AND USERS? [[File number 180/00403]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u73	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u74	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Vice President Third. A wave of contagion by COVID-19, 66 000 accumulated dead, an unprecedented economic and social crisis in times of peace; many companies have put their hopes in the arrival of the 140 billion from European funds. Madam Vice-President, do you believe that European funds should be used to strengthen the position of IBEX vis-à-vis SMEs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u75	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u76	Thank you, President. Mr Capdevila, as you know very well that the main objective of these recovery funds, of that recovery plan, is to boost economic growth, the creation of quality jobs and the modernization of the entire productive fabric. SMEs and self-employed people will be at the heart of economic recovery, as they have been a top priority in all the measures we have been taking to respond to the pandemic. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u77	Mr. Capdevila.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. We appreciate your good tone and your sincere intentions, but we denounce that the Spanish Government cannot continue to turn its back on SMEs and self-employed workers, the groups most affected by the restrictions. To date, a year later, and unlike the vast majority of European economies, it has been refused to articulate a direct compensation mechanism for those who are seriously affected by the crisis. An example of how you help: you have left all the airport trade at the stake. AENA, which has participated in 51% by the state, has been mistreating those who have rented commercial spaces, such as a vulture fund, such as BlackRock, Your Honor. Airports without flights and rentals as always, and Lucena passing the bill. And now, in the face of the arrival of European funds, his royal decree gives a clear signal of his true intentions; a real centralizing decree, Jacobin, which completely obviates the principle of subsidiarity. And this is the way, to strengthen the power of the great ones and to continue paying the duck the small ones. These European funds must be an opportunity to transform and change the foundations of a polluting, unequal and profoundly unfair economic model. Esquerra wants to defend a model of reconstruction led from the autonomous and municipal proximity, not from La Moncloa, and to this end the Generalitat will create a specific office so that the SMEs can access the funds, fleeing from the oligopolistic model IBEX 35. We agree, yes, because small and medium-sized enterprises must play a relevant role in a future distribution of these European funds, because SMEs and self-employed are the thickness of the economy and occupation, the light cavalry of the system, not cannon meat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u79	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. As you know very well, because all the government's measures have been ratified in this Parliament, SMEs and self-employed people have been the main beneficiaries of all the aid that has been articulated since March last year: direct aid in the form of payment of the ERTE salaries; the extraordinary provision of the self-employed; the transfers that we have made to the autonomous communities so that they can help these hoteliers and traders affected by the decisions they themselves take in their area of responsibility in the health field; and the ICO's endorsements. All that battery of measures which, I insist, have been an act of solidarity of the whole of Spanish society and which I believe we need to put into value. The SMEs are at the heart of the recovery plan. There is a set of investments of more than $2 billion earmarked specifically for SMEs, in addition to all the tractor impact that can be produced from the thirty components of this investment plan. In addition, they will have a very protected, very special participation in tractor projects in which they have to participate with large companies. In the field of reforms we have planned - and I hope we will soon get to consult - a law of business growth that will address, among other issues, one that I know is very dear to you, that of lateness, so important for SMEs. That is, this Government is clearly committed to SMEs. But, Mr Capdevila, I believe that the future must be built on the basis of agreement, as the President of the Government told us today, and not by confronting large companies against small ones, some citizens against others, some territories against others. Let us all move in the same direction because the recovery plan must serve to achieve more sustainable and inclusive growth throughout the national territory. Let's work together to make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHY DOES THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH IN HER OFFICIAL CURRICULUM OF THEIR PROFESSIONAL VINCULATION WITH ISOFOTON? [[File number 180/00412]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u81	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, why do you hide your professional relationship with Isofoton in your official curriculum? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u83	Thank you. Madam Vice-President Fourth.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u84	Mr Requena, thank you very much for rewording a question that you asked me in writing on 18 September. In case you forget again you can read the written answer again. There is not an official standardized curriculum, but a biographical reference that mentions initiatives, actions, the latest professional career and the performance of responsibilities in the Government and the Administration. As I say to you, if you want to save time and forget it again, you can consult it in writing whenever you need to find again explanations and other issues that I have also played in my professional and working life. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u85	Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u86	I rephrase the question because I don't believe the motivations it brings. Mrs Rivera, it was no coincidence that you hid that you worked for a renewable energy company because your passage through Isophoton was a management and legal failure. Not only did you leave 700 workers behind, but your implications at your stage in Isofoton now have legal consequences; legal consequences in which your colleagues, Mr Planas and Mrs Montero who are sitting with you today in the Council of Ministers were the necessary collaborators for you to work in Isofoton. Four months ago you told me that you had nothing to do with either the before or during or after Isofoton's decisions, but you lied to us because you also said you came to accompany Isofoton in the internationalization of the company. And what did he do? I'll tell you what, I'll propose you move to a tax haven like Luxembourg. That, Mrs Ribera, in addition to being immoral, is incompatible with the last gift of your friends, Mrs Montero and Mr Planas. I know you're not going to have the courage to tell us today why you took your way through Isophoton from your resume, but I'm going to tell you. Because you knew that Planas and Montero's loan was the last resource to cover the 80 million scam they had given to Isofoton, because the loan was made without a clean audit, because the risk analysis of the loan was known by the Andalusian PSOE apparatus that had planned a restructuring to fire workers, which was known that the company was not going to return the loan and that its company had an inadequate financing structure. But you didn't care. Tell us, so we all know, how much of that irregular loan was used to pay your salary? You were not someone passing by, Mrs Ribera, you were a director attached to the president and on February 12, 2013 we discovered that you were the brains of an irregular decision to move to a tax haven. You were the directive of a company in which the auditors of the Board of Andalusia recommended the initiation of criminal proceedings for fraud by your company. That's why you deleted from your resume your passage through Isofoton, because with the PSOE's ethical code in hand you would never have been vice president, because without the necessary help from your friend Mrs Montero and Mr Planas would never have been minister. Those are the real reasons and if you don't explain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Requena. Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u88	What you have given is a list of lies, blasphemies and defamations without any proof, without any sustenance and without any element. [[Rumors]] That is, to embarrass politics as always, as its predecessor and as so many others. If not, come with what you must bring and not insinuations and infamies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u89	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u90	She is my friend Montero since June 2018, which was the moment when I met her, in these years what I have is a professional career in a large capital where I have found highly qualified people in the field of administrations, in parliamentary groups, in the academy, in the company and in the international arena. What I have never found, except for Mr Arias Cañete, who fell off the horse when he became Commissioner, is no one in his parliamentary group who has taken the energy transition, the environment or climate change seriously. [[Applauds]] You can make the decision about what you want to be of the greatest and how you want to be remembered, if again lying, embarrassing, defaming, saying nonsense to right and wrong or taking seriously those sectoral functions and responsibilities that are part of your spokesperson in Ecological Transition and understanding the complexities, the challenges of the system and looking for solutions that we would very well be able to consensus and work together for the good of the Spaniards. [[One Member: There each.- Rumours.-Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u91	Can we continue with the control session, Mrs. Vazquez? - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WILL YOU RECORD THEIR STATEMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE VASCO GOVERNMENT IN THE DETERMINATION OF ZALDIVAR? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00404]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u92	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti of the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-JPNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u93	Madam President, before the question I wanted to raise a point of order, if I may.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u94	No, not in the middle of the control session, Mr. Agirretxea. You ask the question, and when the control session is over, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u95	All right. Maybe if the EMU had intervened a year ago, maybe a corpse wouldn't be in one place. Minister, you made these statements in the presentation of a magazine dedicated to the Armed Forces and, for those who do not know, you referred to the corpse of Joaquín Beltrán, who is still tirelessly searched under the thousands of tons of land after the tragic accident at the landfill of Zaldívar a year ago. And what is most entrepreneurship is that it has given no reason or argument for such assertion-accusation. What did you mean by that phrase? That the Basque government of the lehendakari Urkullu didn't do everything in their hands to save lives? That the land settlement work, the study of the geological and environmental situation, the security risks, the search work, etc., prior to any action on the ground were not the right ones? By the way, from a department, the Environment department, run by a socialist colleague of his. Do you know all the preventive and security work with high-level specialist professionals that had to be done before you started looking for the missing or just talking? Allow me, but I ask you to tell me now what the UME would have done that the Basque institutions and all their resources did not do. Because you personally told us a year ago that it had no sense that the EMU would travel there because it was not going to bring anything else. Therefore, why are these claims full of frivolity and sorrow that would be pathetic if they were not dramatic? Because we're talking about two dead bodies with names and surnames. Who did he want to please with these statements and, even more so, who did he want to attack, because they had any goals? The Basque Government has asked him to rectify his regrettable statements more than once and has not responded. What a lack of consideration! When you know perfectly well that neither resources nor efforts have been spared and we are not alone, the European Parliament has just argued that European legislation has been scrupulously complied with. If you want to exalt the Army and praise its virtues, look for other examples, other places, there is no lack of stands, but do not embarrass this land with petty statements. It's been over a week and it hasn't rectified. You have a chance to do it here today and now. I hope you will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u96	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the pandemic has taught us all or should have taught us, it has certainly taught me, that when there is a human drama, as has certainly happened in Zaldívar, the important thing, the only important thing is the people, their families. From that point of view, from the importance of those who suffer and those who have had a bad time, I always feel very supportive and very close to the Government which is responsible for managing a drama or tragedy, whatever it may be. Without a doubt, what happened in Zaldívar is a tragedy and a tragedy, and the Basque Government, the Basque Administration and all those who are working and have worked on it will always have my respect, my solidarity and empathy and, if necessary and when necessary, support and collaboration between administrations. But I am sure that you share with me - and much more in this parliamentary seat - that the most important thing in politics has to be humanity: thinking about people, thinking about those who suffer. I know that the Basque Government has thought about who suffers and their families. I know that you have done everything in your hand, but I believe that the important thing - and I insist that I know that you and the Basque Government, with the lehendakari at their head, share it - is empathy, support and recognition for the victims, what is really essential when there is a drama or tragedy. I know you share with me that right now all our affection has to be with Alberto and Joaquín's family. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u98	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u99	Minister, this confirms that the question I have asked you is still in the air. Why hasn't he rectified yet? Regardless of all the condolences and all the support, why hasn't he rectified yet?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u100	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u101	I would like to stress that I believe that the important thing at the moment is solidarity, empathy and support for those who work at the landfill in Zaldívar, without any doubt the Basque Government, the Basque Administration and all those who are in it, and above all the affection and support for the families of Alberto and Joaquín. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: WILL THE MINISTER SHOW IF THE ISAFOTON IS INVESTIGATED? [[File number 180/00413]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u102	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question posed by Mrs Carolina España Reina of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u103	Thank you, President. Minister, are you going to resign if you're being investigated by the Isophoton case?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u104	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Spain, by the tenor of your question, you have learned absolutely nothing. Despite the fact that the citizens over and over tell them in the ballot box that they are not doing well and that the burning land policy has no use for the citizens as a whole, you continue to base your policy on insult, defamation, misrepresentation, manipulation, the 'worst, better' and, ultimately, carrying out a strategy of weakening the People's Party and strengthening the far right. It's a real political suicide. Make him look at it. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u106	Mrs. Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u107	He's not answering. Isofoton case, 80 million euros squandered in an unworkable company linked to Vice President Ribera; that is, 13 billion of the old pesetas without meeting the requirements. According to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office - which is not nonsense - violations were known and there was serious negligence. It's a big scandal, Minister, and you were there and approved it. Possible crimes of prevarication, misappropriation and documentary falsity. Do you feel cornered by the D.A.'s office? Are you going to resign, Minister, if you're being investigated? Yes or no? Tell the truth, because he already lied to us with the mask VAT and the light VAT. Let's see if he's going to blame Isofoton for Europe too now. With the socialist government in the Andalusian Junta there was the biggest corruption plot of democracy: the ERES, 680 million euros lost without control. And you were also there as a counselor in the ERE plot and in Isofoton's, you and two other ministers. Now we understand the economic ruin they left in Andalusia, since not only were the EREs, also Isofoton and everything else: Mercasevilla, Invercaria, Jeremie funds, the Astapa case... Thousands of millions of euros lost, Minister, impoverished the Andalusians. And now, a new scandal. Are you legitimized to continue as Minister of Finance? Is that the model you have imported from the Andalusian PSOE for the distribution of European, arbitrary and Moncloa funds? The case of Isophoton is the tip of the iceberg of the scandals of the Idea Agency - stay with the name: Idea Agency -, three times more corruption than in the EREs, 3000 million euros. It is a shame that the unemployed community has been giving the money of the unemployed to friends and related businesses, and others have been spending it on prostitutes and cocaine. It's demolishing, and it wasn't four gulfs, it was a form of government. If you do not give any explanation for that unjustifiable treatment of favor to Isofoton, resign, Madam Minister, and you will spare us the shame of seeing a minister of the Kingdom of Spain being investigated by the Justice. We have a right to know the truth, Minister. Answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u108	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. You see, Mrs. Spain, how can you learn nothing? [[Protests]] The provocation will not solve the problems of the People's Party. You are not going to solve your problems with defamation, with lying, with insult, with false suspicion, with everything you have done here today in the question, Your Honor. You, with that strategy - I've told you before - know what you're going to do? You will continue to identify the People's Party as a losing party, which is what you are in. Do you really believe that it is serious that, after what the citizens have said in the ballot box, the response of the People's Party is a change of heart, to say they move from home? [[Rumors]] Is that what citizens expect after what you have suffered in the polls as punishment these days? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u110	Excuse me a moment, Minister, forgive me a moment. We have heard the question quite clearly from Mrs Spain. I believe that the same respect deserves the Minister of Finance and, if not the Minister of Finance, the citizens who are listening to us. I request silence, please, to the House. Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I was telling you, Mrs Spain, that with this strategy you will not be able to hide the problems that the People's Party has. What you need, what you have to do is get out of there, try to contribute to our country, tie your shoulder, that we are in the most important health, pandemic and economic crisis of the last century. It's what you have to do, tie your shoulder. Stop defaming, stop lying, and stop practicing that burning land policy that citizens criticize at the polls over and over again. [[Rumours.-Applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: HOW HAS THE GOVERNMENT NEGOTIATED THE PARAMETERS APPLICABLE TO VALUE THE CRITERIA FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE FUND REACT-I AM BETWEEN THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES? [[File number 180/000400]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u112	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u113	Madam Minister, how do you intend to distribute the 10 billion of the European Union React Fund among the autonomous communities we learn from the press release of 28 December. There has been no negotiation or prior information. It is not known what parameters you have used to assess the indicators that you say you have taken into account. They have not even mentioned a convergence correction coefficient that considers the per capita GDP of each autonomous community. It seems obvious that if a catastrophe affects a rich man and a poor man in much of his property, it would not be necessary to compensate both in the same proportion. This is something that the European Union Regulation does provide for. But with so much obscurantism, neither I nor other connoisseurs of these subjects have been able to replicate the data by doing simulations. That is why it is necessary for you to explain exactly what values you have taken, what are the sources and why you have chosen them. Yesterday, in the Committee on Finance, your fellow coalitions rejected your appearance to explain it, a appearance I requested because I do not believe that in two and a half minutes you will be able to explain it. We do not know whether the distributions are on account, since they have been taken from the estimates of the AIReF and have not taken into account more real data, such as those of the INE, unless you have, in the ministry or in the Tax Agency, something that we do not know. The unemployment data are supposed to be those of the EPA and not those of the registered unemployment, but neither do we know. Nor do the reference dates seem logical to us. What we do know is that lately Cantabria always has less to do with it than we estimate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u114	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. The question, Mr. Mazón, is whether the problem is in the calculations you make or in the amounts you allocate, because I am surprised that you say that you have learned of this information by a press release. There was a meeting with the councillors, and you were not, Mr.Mazon, although the rest of the councillors from other autonomous communities were. They have therefore not been able to find out about this by a press release, since we have already commented at the sectoral conference on the criteria that had determined the distribution of the REACT-European Union. But I will remind you, I have no problem: they were the same criteria used by the European Union for the allocation of funds among the Member States. In particular, a part is divided according to the collapse that has suffered from GDP in the last time of the pandemic; therefore, there is an approximation to the fallen wealth of each country, in this case of each autonomous community. Secondly, it is broken down according to the percentage of unemployment and how this unemployment gap has been widened. And, thirdly, according to youth unemployment, which has a special impact within these indicators. These are the parameters according to which the European Union and the Government of Spain have distributed the funds. They are therefore transparent criteria. By the way, Mr Mazón, I believe that the Community of Cantabria has 1% of the total funds, an amount close to its population. I don't see any inconsistencies or problems. Above all, you have all the information. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u116	Mr. Mazon.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u117	Madam Minister, of course, we Members have not had any information. And he's still not telling me the parameters. One thing is that and another is the indicators. Look, the effort that each autonomous community makes according to the characteristics of its own territory, without counting the population, has not been taken into account. You see the end result of the autonomous communities and the political signs, and it seems that there are factors that do not want to be made public. Therefore, it is imperative that you make available all the data you have handled and listen to all the comments that can be made to you. I hope that you will make a new assessment, with the real, definitive, transparent and non-estimative data, that you will take the reference dates and accept the European criteria, and that you will consider the starting situation of each autonomous community as regards its wealth per inhabitant.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u118	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I have little to add, Mr. Mazón. I have already told you the objective criteria and I have transferred to you what this allocation of resources from the REACT-European Union, which have been earmarked, almost entirely, by the Government of Spain to the autonomous communities to absorb the surplus part of the expenditure in respect of normal exercises resulting from the pandemic. I have also told you that the allocation for Cantabria is approximately 1% of the total funds, according to the population of Cantabria in relation to the national population. They are therefore accounts, Mr. Mazón, and there is no other question. I don't know what you mean in political terms. You will see in the assignment the clear application of these parameters. You may or may not share these parameters, but it seems reasonable to me, as what is at stake is to alleviate the fall of wealth and the rise of unemployment, primarily youth. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOU DISCUSSION FOR THE VALUATIONS MADE FROM YOUR MINISTRY IN MINISTER OF THE WORK THAT REALIZE THE DEVICTIM ASSOCIATIONS OF TERRORISM TO BE WITH THE SUBSIDITIONS THAT THEY RECEIVE? [[File number 180/00408]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u120	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, will you apologize to the ETA victims' associations for the insidious statements made by your ministry regarding the management of the public aid they receive?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u122	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lázaro, I would like to point out that at no point since the ministry has there been a negative judgment on the work of terrorist victims' associations; quite the contrary. In this order, we talk about the essential and indispensable work of the associations themselves to create the necessary public memory of what happened. Even the assessment, in that order to which you refer, of the development and management of grants is highly satisfactory. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u124	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u125	Well, look, Minister, I have an absolutely different perception, precisely from the reading of this document, as the victims and the Spanish as a whole have it. Look, let's contextualize all this. Otegi, partner of state: an insult to the victims; as is also the fact that you and Sánchez are massively transferring the prisoners of the gang, granting prison benefits, releasing them and agreeing to pay tribute to the murderers when they leave prison; or that in this House, and outside it, ETA heirs insult the State Security Forces and Corpses, whitewash criminal history and insult and despise the victims. And now, in addition, the Government intends to liquidate the crime of heightening terrorism so that types of this Hasel's dungeon can pour their garbage free of charge. And it was only now, Minister, that from your ministry, you should say what you say, from your ministry, that there should be insidious, veiled statements about the management of the victims of terrorism with the public aid they receive. This is done by the ministerial order of 30 December, which also incorporates a kind of evening threat to the victims, telling them that, if they want to receive subsidies in the future, they must stop criticizing their ministry's policy, show conformity with it and, in addition, invite you to its actions. Look, Minister, you apologize, you certainly won't. You will also repeat my sentences from other moments of my parliamentary life; and that is a foolish undertaking, Minister, which I am honoured with, because it shows that I have defended and continue to uphold the same principles throughout my life, while you have gone from being the legal scourge of ETA to the political masonry of Bildu. That's, between you and me, the difference. Ask the victims, and tell Sánchez and Churches to have the courage - they will not have - to explain to the victims, face to face, their dirty pact with Bildu and all the other surrounding mob. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u126	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Today I am not going to remind you of any of your manifestations in your long political career, but I am going to remind you that the time has not yet come for you to prepare your speeches satisfactorily. Proof of this is the reply speech you gave us today. He has not made any express manifestation or intercomilada to the order; he may have read it, but he has not shown it to me. If I were to read it today, I would tell you that it can make good progress, because it has not made any reference, for example, to the fact that it says how the excellence of all the projects submitted by the associations of victims of terrorism has been given prominence, within the necessary assessment to be made in that order for the Strategic Subsidy Plan 2021/2023. It has also been necessary to mention that the technical evaluation of projects is highly satisfactory. It has also been overlooked to you that the associations of victims of terrorism and foundations themselves give thanks to the Unit of the Directorate of Support for Victims of Terrorism of the Ministry, for the help for the development of these projects which they have proposed. All of this you should not have read or forgotten, but we, as democratic values and recognition of the victims of terrorism are part of our basis and principles, do not simply engage in sophistication; we use the BOE and the General Budgets of the State. We have increased aid to terrorist victims' associations to EUR 960 000 in this year's budgets because we believe in them, because we believe in the work they are doing to create memory, the necessary democratic values and the recognition of victory for the terrorist organisation ETA, in which they had so much to do. That is why we are also celebrating the European Year of Victims of Terrorism this year. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MAJOR MARKS ORTEGA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: DID IT DIRECTLY PARTICIPATE IN THE GRANTING OF ILLEGAL SUBSIDITIONS TO ISOPHOTON AS A COUNCILMAN OF THE ANDALUCIA BOARD? [[File number 180/00414]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u129	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs Milagros Marcos Ortega, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u130	Mr Planas, three members of the Council of Ministers are being criminally investigated by the Seville 3rd Court and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is already talking about embezzlement of public money. Neither Mrs Rivera nor Mrs Montero have answered; let's see if we have more luck with you. Tell me: your null defense of the agrarian sector, your condescension with the cuts of the Treasury and your thundering silence in the face of Mrs. Rivera's attacks, do you have anything to do with your involvement in the plot of Isofoton? Yes or no, Mr. Planas? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u131	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. The answer to the question raised is no. [[Applause from the Socialist Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u133	Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u134	Minister, the court and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; we haven't invented it ourselves, and it's not the first time. You allowed EUR 80 million to go to a bankrupt company that you then hired Mrs Ribera. You were also in the government that took the money of the Andalusian unemployed, ruined Andalusia and are ruining the Spanish countryside, and we will not consent. Mr Planas asked you again: Does your abandonment to the agricultural sector have anything to do with your concern for the judicial matters in which you are involved? Why, if not, would you allow farmers and farmers to raise taxes and cut their money? Look, out of the 140 billion euros that Moncloa will distribute at his will thanks to the invaluable aid of VOX, to the agriculture, the alms, 1000 miseros million, while to Environment, 12,000; coincidences of life. Tell us why you will allow the Spanish countryside to be humiliated and denied, why you continue to deny the 5 billion CAP cuts. Doesn't it defend farmers and farmers when they literally attack wolves? What do you owe the ministers of finance and the environment, investigated, like you, in Isofoton? Mr Planas, if you have something to hide, if you do not give explanations of this unjustifiable treatment of favor to Isofoton, of this systematic abuse to the Spanish countryside, we will join in the request of farmers and farmers. Listen to them for once and resign. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u135	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Marcos, I think you are the spokesman for agriculture in the People's Group. We have three sessions of this legislature and this is the first time you have brought an initiative to this plenary. [[Rumors]] You either don't care or you don't want to know.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u137	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u138	They do not want to know that 47 724 million euros will arrive for farmers and farmers in the period 2021-2027, the same figure as in the period 2014-2020. Two years ago you said that 30% less; a year ago, 10% less; now you go for 1.9%. Don't worry; I'll explain it to you in the Committee on Agriculture. In December we adopted Decree-Law 35/2020, with 600 million euros for the primary sector, for farmers and livestock farmers in the reduction of modules in the singular objective estimate; you, without knowing. This government is going to execute 563 million for sustainable watering; you, without knowing. But it is true that you are more comfortable in something else; you are more comfortable in trying to defame and slander the members of this government and all those who do not agree with you and not working for the Spanish. Your performance is limited to the photo of a gentleman with a piggyback in his arms, that is the contribution to the primary sector that you have made in this legislature and, by the way, electorally has not gone very well with it. [[applause]] The Government's commitment to farmers and farmers in rural areas is therefore absolutely firm. We will also prevent you, with your immobility and resistance to social change, from preventing the generational renewal and participation of women in our rural environment, which is so important for the whole of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u139	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent questioning of the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the second vice president of the Government and minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, to ensure the exercise of journalism in freedom and without political interference. For your defense, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, Mr Iglesias, if we have to be here today, this is bad news for Spain in particular and for Western democracies in general. They are already in important positions of Democratic Governments who do not believe in the Western model and Western democracy that we have given ourselves; it is already in the Government of Spain who does not believe in Spain, who believes that they must destroy our democracy in order to comply with many of the affirmations and announcements made by the new populism and made by Mr. Iglesias himself, those that Pedro Sánchez took his dream away. I recognize Mr. Iglesias' sincerity in this matter, he has contradictions in others, but Mr. Iglesias knows a lot about communication and propaganda, something that has also been key in his party at very important times, and he fights for the control of the media; he knows perfectly well the importance of controlling and managing the media: Give me the news. The problem is who brought you here. Democracies are in danger when one side of the ideological board has the temptation to govern with whom it has ideological affinity, but it does not believe in the system and does not believe in democracy, instead of reaching agreements with whom it defends a different doctrine, but it does believe in democracy and it does believe in the rule of law that we have given ourselves, in this case, in Spain. It is much more important, gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen of the PP, to share a conception of the rule of law, of respect for rights and freedoms than being socialist or conservative. You, lords of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have been wandering decades when for electoral reasons you first agree with the nationalists and now you incorporate the populists of both extremes as preferences. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group today calls on the Vice-President of the Government because he has not done so by the President of the Government, who should have called him to order. It is the President of the Government who should have already called for the cessation of Pablo Iglesias when he denigrated Spanish democracy, when he points to judges and when he encourages the persecution and hunting of journalists. Because the Government is a collegiate body, and when Mr. Iglesias points out to judges journalists, he does so on behalf of the Government of Spain, he does not do it on behalf of Mr. Iglesias, and if nobody corrects him, it is you, each of Mr. Iglesias' colleagues in the Council of Ministers, who are responsible for what Mr. Iglesias does and says. It is true - this I am going to say I think it is a question that we would have to remember more often - that the People's Party cultivated and raised Podemos, the left golem to try to charge the Socialist Party; and it is true that the Socialist Party responded by creating and cultivating the right golem, VOX, to try to charge in this case the People's Party, and now we have two political hommuncles that are beating the foundations of our freedoms. People's Party and Socialist Party toyed believing that, like Dr. Frankenstein, they could control the creature, and here we are, they have played with fire and now the flames surrounded the building of freedom; two tremendously illiberal movements, flaws, holes, but with popularity and technology, because they believed that you created them, but some are children of chavismo and others are children of an algorithm. There is a fundamental difference in this matter: We may be in the government and VOX is not. Mr. Iglesias, I'm a citizen's spokesperson on the Health Commission. There we receive information permanently and we are very aware of the drama of the Spanish people, and in this task it is in which my parliamentary group is absolutely turned. Previous questions were about health, recovery and aid to the economy, but while we are working here to save lives and contain the economic collapse, you, who have, among other things, the Social Affairs portfolio, have dedicated yourself to attacking and denigrating Spanish democracy. What have you done against the pandemic, what have you worked on? You are the most useless minister in the face of the pandemic and, eye, I remember that you have created a ministry of consumption, and competition is tough. You have devoted yourself to activism, to something else. While all the health workers, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Army, many officials, some of your colleagues on the Council of Ministers, parliamentary groups, with greater or lesser accuracy, we are trying to avoid major evils, you are dedicated to being the scum of democracy, you have questioned Spanish democracy very seriously. This doesn't surprise me if we consider the models to follow. I am not going to put myself here to make appointments or remember the past, but you have shown sympathy for the Cuban regime and for gunmen like Guevara or for dictatorships like the Venezuelan one. In the meantime it has compared - this has especially bothered me - Puigdemont with exiles fleeing from war and Francoism. While you were saying that - which I also saw live - I automatically thought of Antonio Machado dying of pneumonia and pain in a pension in France. Lord Churches, you know that is not so, do not retort in this way the pain of the exiles. We can - not only you, everything We can - have parasitized and used the pain of others; if it is that of exile, that of exile; if it is that of the dispossessed, that of the dispossessed. I remember when here, in this very rostrum, a fellow sitting there said that people had to light candles to warm up because they couldn't afford the light. Now what? Can you pay for the light now? Do you now remember those people who had to light candles to warm up? You have also increased your offensive against the Spanish press and journalists. Why? Because he wants to silence those who are uncomfortable for you. Some say you want to silence the press because they denounce the corruption of Podemos. Yesterday we knew by press the imputation of Currency by companies screens that you mount. Those who support these theories believe that the leitmotiv of their attacks on the press is to hide the many miseries of Podemos and the shortcomings of the government to which you form a very weak part. I don't believe it; I think the above is temporary. I believe that you are attacking the press on a fundamental issue: you know that there are two things that are born and die at the same time, the newspapers and democracy. Democracy without political parties is possible, but democracy without journalism is not possible, and you know it. That's why you want to charge journalism and impose propaganda, that's why you put together a pamphlet called The Last Hour, a pamphlet 'actiprop' from which to point out and coerce those who feel they should be the first to fall into the Spanish press, all at the same time that the government is launching a project to combat fake news. When you approach the bollometer to your flyer, it's going to burst. You, like VOX in this case, want to eliminate the informant. We can and VOX attack the press to be Podemos and VOX who speak directly to the citizenry and be able to intoxicate me in absolute freedom, without anyone to control them, because both have misery and shame to cover, both are afraid of freedom and critical thinking, two of the immediate fruits of free journalism. Journalism is interested in freedom and irritates lies; populism is weakened by truth and lies are covered by it. That's why you put journalism on target. If a journalist pulls something against Podemos, he will come out in The Defamated Last Hour, pointed out, and then be lynched on the social network. If a journalist is critical with VOX, they will come out and tell them that they must quit a media outlet by putting emails or phone numbers in the editor's office. It is no coincidence that, in addition, it is then lynched into networks using very thick terms; they only have to see the timelines of VOX bots, forgive pleonasm. Moreover, it is no coincidence that it is a liberal party that brings this question here today. Mr. Churches, I often don't like what I read in the newspapers. I'm from Citizens, I've got the hardened leather collar already. What am I going to tell him! But it's just that I don't have to like newspapers. If the newspapers liked politicians, something would be doing the newspapers wrong. There are editorial lines, yes; journalists have ideologies, yes; are members of this House the ones who have to validate what a journalist writes? No, it's citizens choosing who they want to read and who they trust, who determines what means exist and what journalist wins, who wants to report it. It is the Spaniards, without political guides, who always decide. There's nothing patriotic, gentlemen of VOX, filling the net with bots, throwing lynching at their hosts. Don't hide now, as you usually do, whining after your voters. Am I insulting VOX voters? No, I point out to you, that you plan these paraphernalias, these social media lynching strategies to members of other political parties and also journalists. He pointed out to you and to the mob you use against those who denounce your mistakes and flaws. There's nothing patriotic about blinding the Spaniards and making them just trust their propaganda. Intoxicating and clouding the judgment of the Spaniards is not something a patriot can be proud of. They respect the Spanish idiosyncrasy, of which they all say they know, the great journalistic tradition of Larra or Galdós. Don't change Larra and Galdós for Bannon and the spin alt-right doctors How unpatriotous that is! It is no coincidence that it is a liberal party that brings this question to Mr. Iglesias today. Nor is it a coincidence that every time there is an illiberal drive with authoritarian hues, the first thing I intend to silence is the press. Any coup d'état, any dictator, the first thing he does is close the media and set up a propaganda machine. Today we are in a very delicate situation, since Moncloa, at the press conference of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Iglesias said that the insult to informants should be naturalized. The insult is the euphemism of much more; the insult seeks coercion, the remark; it seeks that the press today does not report that Monedero has been imputed, that it informs us of the false invoices of the works of its headquarters, and other issues that I will not mention here for not diverting or disturbing the debate. They want a journalist to report on those things, to have some serious consequences. They want you to think about it and that, if you have to choose between reporting on cloudy matters or something else, that you know that, from choosing information about Podemos or about VOX, will be pointed out and frightened, your photo will be published - they have done it on networks -; come on, think about it well. Attitudes like this, pursuing journalism and pointing out journalists not to denounce their miseries, are the beginning of the death of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I thank you for the tone of your speech. Let me propose - you say it is liberal - that I listen to my speech in a liberal spirit because I think you can agree on many things with me. I am very grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to reflect in the parliamentary seat, in this rostrum, on something enormously important about what is hardly ever reflected in the seat of popular sovereignty: the media power and the role of the media power in democracy. It is not customary for debate in this House and, in general, it is not customary for debate to take place in the most relevant areas of political discussion as to the role of the media in shaping democratic societies. It is, in fact, a taboo issue that seems to be forbidden to talk about, and I think that is the symptom of a lack of our democracy that needs to be overcome. Democratic normality is also, Your Honor, that we can talk about all the actors who have a relevant role in the development of politics. I therefore believe that it is indeed very good for you to give us the opportunity to speak here today about the media powers. And it will allow me to make some reflections on the role that media powers are playing in Spain with our democracy. It is clear that there is something that everyone understands, and that media power has a determining role in the development of democratic processes in our time; it has always been so, but in societies as mediated as we live much longer, and let us not say in a context of pandemic and restrictions of physical gatherings as we are living. I give you a data, during the months of March and April 2020, during the confinement, the historical record of television consumption in Spain was recorded. How is this not going to be a matter of political reflection on the part of citizens' representatives? This determining influence of media powers on public opinion and democracy is expressed in many ways. The media powers to a large extent decide the agendas, the topics that are spoken of and the issues that are not spoken of; they decide which voices and opinions can be heard by citizens and which ones are not. Here, after all, the voices that are heard are decided by the citizens; in the media powers it is not necessarily so. They even decide, through the enormous links they have with the audiovisual and publishing industry, a good part of the films and series that are being filmed and even the books that are being published. That is, they decide much of what you can see, hear and read in this country. I propose a very simple exercise, which can make any of you or any citizen who is listening to us from your mobile phone, which is to study or look at how media powers determine the agenda by simply entering the web of a newspaper and doing a word search. It can be seen how many times certain matters are mentioned and how many times others are not mentioned. I have done the exercise to prepare the answer to your inquiry on the El Mundo newspaper website and the results are very striking. The word Venezuela has 17 376 results. Do you know how many results the word evictions has? It has 1668 results and expression rotating doors, two words, 486 results. And this not only happens in digital newspapers; it also happens on television and even on public television. I give you some data from the Civil platform on how many times certain words have been mentioned in Spanish Television's TV news from 2014 to today: Venezuela, 3663 times; Maduro, 2717; ETA, 2433; evictions, 244; Lezo, 153; revolving doors, 21. Impressive, isn't it? I believe that anyone who listens to this data can understand the enormous capacity of media powers to define what is being talked about and what is not being talked about. And I think I say something obvious when I said that one of the main causes of the extreme right-wing boom is not what political parties have done, it is the normalization of the extreme right-wing agendas in the media powers. If we are talking about certain issues, of course, we are setting the way for certain political forces to succeed. On the other hand, media powers have historically had and continue to have an enormous capacity to exert pressure on political actors. Do you know who said this very clearly on TV, live? The President of the Government. Pedro Sánchez, in a memorable interview with Jordi Évole, Salvados, said that certain media powers - and the president of the government mentioned the Prisa Group - had pressured him in 2016 so that he would not reach an agreement with us. It's awesome! A newspaper, a communications company, with the most listened radio in the country, telling the socialist candidate: how do you think about reaching an agreement with Podemos, we're going to give you but good. And Pedro Sánchez told it on TV, live. I believe that you will recognize with me the enormous power to protect the democracies that have media powers and that this at least deserves discussion and reflection at the headquarters of popular sovereignty. Your Honor, media power is a real power, it's the fourth power; people recognize it. But do you know what the difference between media power and executive power, legislative power and judicial power is? That there is no element of democratic control. After all, you and I sit here because millions of our citizens have voted for us; after all, how a government is elected or, even, how from popular sovereignty, with mechanisms full of flaws and full of problems, the governing bodies of the judiciary are conditioned, at least there is a sort of democratic foundation. But what are the mechanisms of citizen control over such immense power? It is also a business power concentrated in few hands, mainly in the hands of banks, large companies and vulture funds. In Spain, moreover, liberal principles do not apply, there is no free competition; there is basically an oligopoly in which there are two large media groups, Atresmedia and Mediaset, which according to Barlovento Communication data, reach 80% of the consumer audience and absorb 83% of the advertising market. This is trembling. You will say: this is full democratic normality. Well, look, that media powers cannot be counterpowers but rather media arms of economic powers, I think it deserves some reflection. I give you an example of how these media branches of economic power press for the government and for this House, which is the seat of popular sovereignty, not to pass certain laws. A few weeks ago, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, whom you quoted, Alberto Garzón, announces a decree to restrict the advertising of bookmakers. What did the media bosses do? They organized to try to boycott the norm. What are the media arms of the real estate employer going to do to prevent this government from complying with the agreement we signed and there is a law governing rents? Press, press, press and press, when no one has voted for them, so that representatives of popular sovereignty cannot do what they have committed to do signed in a document. It is a danger for journalism that the media system is dominated by banks and vulture funds, has consequences on freedom in the exercise of journalism. Because then, do you think there's no implication in the fact that banks own television? Do you think a journalist can write badly about a bank if the bank is ultimately the owner of the media for which it works? How do you think the professionals - who are ultimately employees of the television bank - will talk about what banks do? How do you think they'll talk about the parties that always defend the interests of the bank? What is more, how will they talk about parties whose sources of financing are loans from the same banks that own television? Do you think a party is free when it has debts with banks? That a party can do something that affects the interests of the banks if those banks, in addition, are owners of the televisions that will define the opinion of the citizens about those parties? It is very important that you have made an inquiry because I dare say that almost for the first time in this rostrum you can talk about these things. Your Honor, media powers are the most important spaces of political socialization, it is above all through them how people are educated politically. Do you imagine that all schools in Spain were owned by the banks? Or that the banks decided the curricula, the subjects, what is explained and what is not explained in class? This is what happens to much of the media in Spain. Please note that in a report by the Madrid Press Association - which I say is not generally very favourable to my political formation - it was said that most of the professionals, 56%, claim to have received pressure from the managers of the environment in which they work. There is very little talk of this, of the pressure that managers put on journalists, and more than 56% say: I have been pressured. In addition, there is something enormously striking, which is territorial bias. The close links between these powers and the media make the process of concentration of the communication market in the capital almost simultaneous. This concentration gives excessive prominence to the events that take place in Madrid and the opinions of the Madrid area, while not even by far the same attention is paid to what is happening elsewhere. I do not think I am lying if I say that there are many citizens in the Canary Islands, Castile-La Mancha, Cantabria or Extremadura who, when they put on a state-wide television channel, see that Madrid is being talked about permanently. Let us again use the counter of the Civil platform on how many times certain words are mentioned in Spanish Television's newscasts. The word Madrid, 519 times; the word Andalusia, 79 times; the Basque Country, 65; Malaga, 36; Bilbao, 29. I give you another data, mentions to autonomous vice presidents in Spanish Television: Ignacio Aguado, 63 mentions; Monica Oltra, a mention; Juan Pedro Yllanes, zero mentions. I think there is a lack of public television in Spain that is not just a Madrid public television. In short, Your Honor, and I am finishing, I believe that it is evidence that it is necessary to democratise the media powers in Spain so that there is more plurality - this is pure liberalism - in private media groups and that there is more public media that, I see, should not be transmission belts of political parties with institutional power but be regulated through public competitions, as we have always advocated for public broadcasting. And also for community media to exist, because the right to information is a right of citizenship, as established in the Constitution, and that means that it cannot be just a privilege of millionaires, as it is now. In this country...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u143	Mr. Vice President, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u144	I'm done, Madam President. There's been a media slum in this country. Do you believe that the things that have been said about us have not influenced the elections and that later, in court, they have proved to be false? It's over now. Your Honor, although the media powers give us very hard to say what I'm saying here, I assure you that we will continue to tell the truth about how power works in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u146	Mr. Iglesias, thank you for your answer and for the preparatory work you have done for this inquiry. You have made a statement that concerns me again, but that I recognize that I am not surprised. You asked who controls the media, who controls them. Do you think we have to control them from here? Do you think you have to control yourselves from the government? That is the fundamental difference between a liberal party and a deeply liberal party like yours. The fundamental difference is that in my political party, in Citizens, we believe that control over the media is exercised by citizens, listening, reading or buying what these means produce. There are means that have sunk because they were neither heard nor read nor bought. There are means which remain and which are very successful, means which, for example, do not publish today the word Neurona, which have an objective public and which are legitimate. I'm not going to attack them and I'm not going to mess with them because they don't, because they have an editorial line exercising the free right to journalism. It seems very good to me that there are means to support you and your political theses, it seems very good to me; what I do not think is that there is an express means, as a media arm of a political party, that points to a journalist when he publishes something that you do not like or that points to a judge when he judges for something that you do not like. Because, in fact, you exercise a clamp from the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, very serious - and here I call again the Socialist Party, please, to correct its partner in government - and, on the other hand, the pressure of the leaflet The Last Hour and social networks. We see it every day; it's not just you, it's VOX, too, but it's true that you're in government. You're in the government! The serious thing is that it is done from the Spanish Government! A parliamentary group has the right to teach the paw of what's coming, but you're in the government already and you taught the paw and now you teach, I'm not going to say what you teach, but you've already shown yourself fully how it is in your quest to control the media. Mr. Iglesias, the media landscape has very different models, there are means that are very good and very read, which I read from one area and another. I really like journalism, I'm in politics for reading journalists who have called me to political mobilization. There are means that are owned by a journalist and there they are. There are means that are owned by banks, yes, and there they are too, but they depend on whether readers and listeners support them or not. It is because of the viability, it is the market, it is the freedom of choice of the citizen who determines that a means remains or not. That is the great difference between an illiberal party and a liberal party. We believe that the Spaniards are smart enough to determine which means remain and which ones do not; we believe that the Spaniards should be able to choose, but not that the political power, and less so from the government, determines when a medium is viable and when not, when a journalist is pseudojournalist or alleged journalist, as you said, simply because he was messing with his party. That is not normal in a mature democracy! Your Honor, I am a member of a free party. I don't know if Mr. Sanchez was being pressured or not to do what he said he was going to do, which was not to agree with you. I don't know why he was pressured if he spent all the time saying he wasn't going to do it; what they would say to him is, "All right, Peter!"; what happens is that then he took everyone to the garden. As I was saying, I am a member of an enormously free party, enormously free. I have had a very free president and I have a tremendously free president, and I guarantee you one thing - I guarantee you because I'm lucky to have met you both personally - that no one can think of trying to pressure you because you're ready. Here the pressure is pressed, and even a real liberal party cannot be pressured because the foundation of a liberal party is precisely to be 'impressible', that is, not pressible. I want to finish with something constructive and that I know that you and I share for what I have read to you; first, journalism is the craft that unveiled the Watergate, the child abuse that wonderfully counts Spotlight, the LAGs, the Gürtel and the EREs, this was highlighted by journalism. And I finish - I'm sorry, President - with something that I know you're going to like and you and I share: it's the trade that has given us books like Chaves Nogales's Agonia de France, Tribute to Orwell's Catalonia; it's the trade that has given us When yunque, yunque. When hammer, hammer, of Augusto Assia, Hiroshima of Hersey, the columns of Camba or the costumerism of Josep Pla; the journalism that has given us films as new moon of Howard Hawks,The fourth power of Richard Brooks or All the men of the president of Alan J. Pakula.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u147	Mr. Díaz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u148	I'm on my way, President. I want to tell you, Mr. Churches, that you have little to do by pressuring the press. The press is much more than you and that I, you will lose and you will not be able to silence the Spanish press, others did not get it in the past. But I am ashamed that the Spanish Government is making attacks on journalism. Stop your attacks, respect democracy and, if you are not able to control yourself, resign. Gentlemen of the PSOE, Mr President of the Government, if Mr Iglesias continues to do so, Caesar.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u149	Mr. Díaz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u150	Madam President, thank you for your generosity. I'm sorry I spread out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u151	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I'll give you one thing, Your Honor. It is true that you have not always been pressured, and proof of that is what happened to you. There was a banker who said he needed a right-wing Podemos, a bank Podemos, and it has been said that his political formation was pampered by the media for a long time. Do you know when that changed? When Albert Rivera did not accept pressure to reach an agreement with Pedro Sánchez and prevent Podemos from entering the government. Ask Albert Rivera if he changed his relationship with economic powers and his media arms when he did not do what he was told to do and to what extent the media's decision to make certain economic powers can be decisive for the fate of a political formation. You are the best proof of that, Your Honor. You're liberal, but I don't know if you know much about marketing. Speaking of the last hour as a pamphlet or as an armed arm, I think it's going to get the number of subscribers to increase exponentially. I have a feeling that what bothers you about the last hour is that it's a medium that has founded someone who was in Podemos, because suddenly it's started talking about the last hour because it's a digital that founds a person who was in my party. However, what do you think that Francisco Marhuenda, who was deputy of the People's Party and chief of staff of Rajoy, is the director of La Reason? Or that a director general of the Socialist Party and adviser to President Zapatero be the director of ElPlural.com? Or that Juan Tapia, the current editor of El Periódico, was an advisor to the Minister of Economics Miguel Boyer of the Socialist Party? Or that Cristina Garmendia, who was Minister of Science and Innovation with the Government of Zapatero, is a member of the Board of Directors of Mediaset? Or that Felipe González sits on the editorial board of the Prisa Group? Do you know what the difference is? That in the last hour they're left-handed. In the last hour he writes a journalist who was a National Human Rights Prize and who was for many years correspondent of Spanish Television in many countries. His name is José Manuel Martín Medem. He was invited to a television show and there was a media outlet, El Mundo, who pointed out to him, saying, "How can you invite this character to television?" He is a journalist with an indefatigable career and with prizes, an international reference. What's the problem with this journalist? Which is left; which is left. Because in this country being a journalist and being left-wing is expensive: they kick you out of some chatter, they kick you out of some TV shows, you're under pressure from political leaders and also from media leaders. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u153	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u154	This is the truth. Why did they throw out The Tertulia of the Chain Being to Ignacio Escolar? Because he talked about Mr. Cebrián's connection to the Panamanian papers. That's how it works, Your Honor. You say with a naivety that pretends to be liberal: No, newspapers work if they are profitable. But how many newspapers are profitable in Spain, Your Honor, apart from sportsmen? [[Applauds]] There are very few means of communication that are profitable. Some even openly recognize that they live on institutional advertising. Or how have power structures been generated in certain territories? It's not profitable, Your Honor, it's not profitable. That is why some understand that there is no problem in losing money if that can have media influence. One of the fundamental problems of our democracy is that power is not shared. Because, Your Honor, democracy is not simply a set of procedures, but power is distributed and not a minority that enjoys all power. And a society in which only billionaires can have large media is a democratically limited society. The owners of the media have more power than you, who have been elected by the citizenry, and even have more power than I, who am vice president of the government. And you know he paints much less than those of Atresmedia or the owners of Mediaset; even I, who am in government. Tell me, with your heart in your hand, that seems to you democratic normality, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the Government. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to enable the Government to clarify its position in respect of the request to cancel THE PUBLIC DUE MAINTAINED BY THE ECB, WHICH HAVE REQUESTED THE TWO MAIN PARTICIPANTS THAT REPLACE THEM. [[PSOE AND UP]] [[File number 172/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u156	Urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Government to clarify its position on the request to cancel the public debt maintained by the European Central Bank, which has requested the two main parties - PSOE and United Podemos - to support them. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u157	Good morning, President. Dear Vice President, thank you so much for being here to attend to this inquiry. First of all, I want to say a few words earlier because I have been listening for 24 hours to real moral and intellectual defiances about Pablo Hasel. Pablo Hasel said something like that he would toast every time a pepper was shot in the back of the neck. Mr. Santiago, is that a democratic abnormality, is it a moral abnormality, is it a bad taste, is it a rise in crime, is it incitement to crime? Can everyone who came down here and put on the vitola of brave men to defend Pablo Hasel tell me? They're gonna kill us? Are you going to toast? Will you toast, Mr. Santiago? [[Applauds]] No, I understand you don't. Be careful when he comes out to defend certain cowards, because I thought that when Hasel went to college it was to study, not to take refuge in being deprived of liberty. By the way, yesterday I heard barbarities, I heard calling prevarication judges, saying that the Constitutional magistrates are a corrupt elite. I would ask, as an institutional courtesy, that these things should not be said in this House and that they should not be said because they break with the institutional balance and the strength and entropy of a democratic system that has been functioning over the past forty years. Please, let's be respectful, we can have ideological differences, but that's not it. Madam Vice President, forgive me, but I've been listening to these things for 24 hours. [[The Lord]] You come here today and do not rent your profit, do not even condone your appearance; you really come almost at the request of part, because you have not been the author of the statements that have been made today nor, of course, of the manifesto that was signed by some people very close to you. On the theory of political responsibility and the theory of identity of opinions, the truth is that I am sometimes perplexed. That intellectual unfolding that your government president suffers when he is president and when he is not former president, which leads you to say completely different things; that intellectual unfolding that leads some members of the government to act freely and to express their opinion, and that someone does not do so as vice president of the government... Mr. Iglesias, what you have just done here is one of the greatest attacks on freedom of expression and the media. [[Applauds]] You're not a reviewer; you're not a reviewer. It's just that every time he talks, he says there's a total democratic abnormality. But let the media hear it, please! Let them hear it! As I also intend, if it is possible in this House - and also out of courtesy and through parliamentary dialectics - that when questions are asked they be answered, because I have been here 24 hours listening to questions that do not get any answers. We are going to try, Madam Vice-President, within our capacity - which we have - we are going to try to make this a question-and-answer exercise and to make it work as parliamentarianism and not as the assembly of that collegiate body which claims to be the Government of Spain, of this country. That said, one thing you have introduced, Madam Vice-President, is egalitarianism; I have no doubt. They said that no one was going to be left behind and they got it right, because there's no one behind, we're the last ones. Of course, they have been right with egalitarianism, fully, we are the last in all the great indicators and, moreover - and I am telling you this in all appearances and interpellations - it is that we do not change. I could have the dream right now of becoming Pablo Iglesias, I could do it. And speaking of cinema, you are a mixture between the life of others and the hand that shakes the cradle. That's right, the hand that stirs the cradle with public funds; a horror movie and a thriller where we don't know who's playing each of the roles but we do know they get public funding. But I will tell you one thing: when we come here and tell him that we are the last, I could have an ideological dream, I could have an ideological movement and turn to Marxism in twenty-four hours. I'm going to convert to Marxism today in 24 hours. Because if I turn to Marxism in twenty-four hours I can't be the last of the whole European Union, I, Marxist. Lord Churches, truly; I, Marxist. Besides, you know that in that we could even share some ideas; you know that you and I could talk about many things. But it's just that even turning me to Marxism didn't stop being the last. We have been applying communist socialist recipes for a year and it turns out that we are the last of the European Union as a whole. Look, there are two major problems for liberal democracy: populism and technocracy. You fly between populism and technocracy, but please ask that if we are really aware - it is an empirical finding, a material evidence - that we are the last, change the economic policies we are doing. And don't do economic anatomy again, which I've already heard again about pulling your shoulder and shaking your hand. Listen, let's do something different: attend to some of our requests, our 1700 amendments and everything we have come to put forward. But no, Madam Vice President, that was not the case. And why hasn't it been so? Because our Government constantly calls for the incredulity of physical operators, of commercial operators, of markets, yes, of national and international markets, since every time you make statements or sign a manifesto you remove all the equilibrium and all the stable concepts that may exist in economic matters. Look, we have gone into the crisis badly, we have told you many times - you are the economic vice president of the government - we have entered without fiscal margin. And I'm not saying that they don't work, because I know that ministry very well and the officials are working impeccably, but the problem is that the leadership that there is does not match the one that the Spaniards need. Don't talk about work, talk about realities and, above all, about results. Madam Vice-President, if discretionary political measures are taken to intervene in economic activity and we are the last, is there a need for a minister? Let the technicians come here and explain what they're doing. In the meantime, let it be the technocracy that rules or populism that rules, gives me absolutely the same, because we will see that the results are, of course, the same. We got into the crisis badly. You know that we entered with a budgetary misadjustment that did not allow us to have a fiscal margin to address needs and to be able to choose companies in a systematic way to make them competitive and effective. You know that. It will also pass into history as Fernando Simón - although it is already getting old, almost like the Jersei carried by Fernando Simón - with that famous phrase that the impact of the crisis would be transitory or unsignificant. Look, we're here and we're still the last of the European Union. He knows perfectly well that we are the worst country in the European Union. We have destroyed 125 billion euros of national wealth, we will close with a budgetary imbalance of around 123 billion euros in 2020 and we have a loose debt, with an increase of 23 points in the last year. This is the real result. Yes, of course public spending has increased, but, of course, budgetary balances are not guaranteed. Furthermore, we remain unanswered about what you are going to do right now to ensure the European Union's fiscal consolidation requirements. Here we were all more or less calm, knowing that this was not going to change, that this was not going well, and you there with your ghosts of the past, of the present and of the future, like Dickens, until a moment comes when the signature of a manifesto takes place. She is not a ballad, because she is signed, among others, by the president of her party, Ms. Cristina Narbona, and the Secretary of State of Mr. Iglesias. I have been a member of the government, and if I sign a document or express an opinion - Mr. Iglesias, you took advantage that you are here - being vice president and holding a public office, you will acknowledge that I tend to identify that opinion with the public office, not with personal ego; if not, there would be an obvious problem. When you take on a political responsibility, what you think at nine o'clock is the same as what you think at nine o'clock in the morning, there can be no intellectual dislocation; otherwise, there would be a systematic problem. I therefore understand that when his Secretary of State signed that document, he does so as a Government, not in his personal capacity. I understand that this will be the case, because I obviously do not suffer from this type of intellectual dislocation. The president of the Socialist Party is not part of the government, but is the opinion of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Otherwise, I would really lose faith in the theory of individual responsibility. This is an ontological concept of intelligence and the imputability of the allocation of concepts and notions. If so, Madam Vice-President - and this is the key - and since this cannot be a democratic anomaly, do you or do you not agree with the text of the manifesto? And it has already spoken, but I want you to say it in Parliament. Do you think we have to ask or rather demand? Because they are all demands of natural law; here we are born as a kind of natural privilege that we have the honor and we have, in principle, the preternatural right to be able to demand that our debts be forgiven. So, do you agree to demand that we be given all the funding we have received, or are we going to receive, as a result of the economic crisis, to return our fate to our hands? That's nice, that's nice! It is an almost Che Guevara phrase: we will return our destiny to our own hands. Amazing. I'm going to give you our position, which I think is very sensible. Firstly, it knows perfectly well that it is illegal, which is contrary to Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Now, speaking of cinema, this is like Inseparables but it's gonna end up like Crash, Cronenberg's movie: suddenly it's gonna blow up the car and see where everyone comes out. But, well, it has already happened in history, especially in French politics, and this will end up happening here just the same. Can you tell me whether you are prepared to propose a reform of Article 123 of the Treaty on European Union, with the aim of making an express amendment, with the aim that, under the monetary policy of the European Union, the public deficits of the various Member States can be monetised? You know perfectly well that this is a moral risk problem of an economic treaty; you know perfectly well the loss of reputation credibility that we will have if we accept such measures; you also know the source of political conflict that generates between prodigal and nonprodigal countries. Nor do I know very well what concept he has of prodigality. Seeing the speeches I heard a moment ago, I no longer know what prodigality is. But you know perfectly well that, if the debt is forgiven, the European Central Bank would have to resort and operate automatically with a third, almost half, of its net liabilities right now. And in order to be able to compensate and stabilize the resources of its liabilities, it would have to mobilize approximately one third of the assets; thus, it would generate an imbalance situation. And I say one more thing: this is not a party that you don't pay; because all the parties - and you know it very well and, in that sense, I have professional esteem -, all these financial parties, have someone who will pay them; obviously they will pay them. And you know who would pay them? They would be paid by the European Central Bank's banknote and reserve holders. But it will be good if you explain it to the Secretary of State of the Lord churches, who does well by staying here because he already receives the explanation and can address himself directly to the Secretary of State; we all really understand what is there. But it would be good if he did not tell anyone else that, in addition to cancelling the debt, what needs to be done is to continue spending and, moreover, to continue spending ineffectively, compulsively, abruptly, as hitherto. In other words, in order to try to alleviate the situation which has practically led us to put ourselves on the verge of bankruptcy, we have to repeat and clone the same economic policy measures. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, it is very simple, the question is very direct; look, and I ask you not to assemble - and it is over - but parliamentarianism: do you support the Petitum, support the content of the manifesto signed by the President of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Secretary of State of Mr. Iglesias? Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-Mr. Santiago Romero asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago, when the debate is over, we shall talk. Thank you. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u159	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Garcés, as I say to you every time I come up here - and I feel like it bothers you, but I really believe it - at this moment I think we all have to be quite focused and united in what really matters and get 2021 to be the year of recovery at this moment of great uncertainty. In the third quarter of 2020 we have already seen an intense revival of the Spanish economy, the positive trend continued in the fourth quarter and, Mr Garcés, I really tell you, you have to change the speech because, in fact, the European Commission's forecasts for 2021, which were published last week, place Spain as the country that will have the greatest economic growth in the whole European Union in 2021, and this positive trend is going to continue in years to come. So I think that you have become a little outdated in your perception of what the economic analyses and forecasts are for our country, and these forecasts are based in part on the economic policy response that we have given to this pandemic since March last year, the robust and effective package of public aid that we have launched since March, which has been adopted by the Government and ratified by this Congress itself and which has been and is being effective in preserving the basis of our productive and social fabric. I am referring to all these direct aid to businesses, to jobs, to the family income that we have been putting in place and that we have been adapting to the circumstances and to the evolution of the pandemic and the economic situation over the months; the guarantees of the Official Credit Institute, with its more than EUR 116 billion of credit; the important public support given to workers, to the protection of employment and to enterprises by paying the salaries of workers covered by the ERTE; the payment of social security contributions, the extraordinary benefit of the self-employed, the extension of the incapacity for work... These three measures alone amount, as you well know, to more than EUR 40.8 billion of direct aid which has been provided and which has also been approved for this year. To this must be added the social protection network, the expansion of unemployment coverage, the minimum living income, the moratoriums on the payment of contributions and taxes, the moratoriums on mortgage and non-mortgage loans; all these measures have also injected liquidity directly into the citizens and businesses of this country. In total, 20% of the gross domestic product mobilised to support and protect the productive fabric, workers, jobs and incomes of our country's families. To respond with determination and effectiveness, as I said, we have been adapting the measures, we have extended the period of deficiency, the period of expiry, we have extended and strengthened all these measures. As you are well aware, we are now working with the financial sector and the Banco de España to continue to take measures that can alleviate the financial burden of viable companies, we are taking advantage of the new Community framework so that we can give greater scope to the autonomous communities that are better placed to give such direct aid to entrepreneurs, to hoteliers, to the world of restoration, to traders, who are affected by the decisions made by those same autonomous communities in the field of health. And all this, Your Honor, is very direct, very real and very significant aid to the Spanish population as a whole to protect our productive fabric, which, as I said to another Member this morning, I think we all have to put into value because it has a very important impact on our country's deficit and public debt. Indeed, with regard to the Autonomous Communities, in 2020, as your Lordship knows, EUR 16 billion was transferred to them, and this year we agreed to allocate another EUR 8 billion so that they can have funding and cope with expenditure in the health and education fields and also help businesses, and all, less an autonomous community, have already informed the Minister of Finance that they will allocate this money precisely to provide direct aid to traders and hoteliers affected by their decisions in the health field. All this economic policy at national level has been reinforced by action at Community level, the coordination of fiscal and monetary policy and a fundamental role of the European Central Bank, which has had a very different response from that of the previous financial crisis and which is playing a key role in maintaining financial stability in debt markets and thus providing the Member States with the right framework to take all these decisions that we have had to take since March. Only between 2020 and 2021 the Public Treasury of the Kingdom of Spain will have to issue 15 billion euros to respond to the pandemic, an amount that is additional to the usual financing needs in our country. However, the position of the European Central Bank is allowing us to access on favourable market conditions, a financial stability whose best reflection is the risk premium, which remains around 60 basis points; nothing to see, Your Honor, with the 668 basis points reached in 2012, in the midst of the financial crisis, when the response from the Community level was very different from the current one. That is why it is essential that we maintain the direction of economic policy at national and European level with a good articulation of monetary and fiscal policy that drives job creation, boosts growth, which also continues to support the action of multilateral debt relief and financial support programmes for the most vulnerable countries and thus accompany an economic policy at national level, which I believe can be described with one word or two words, better said: effective and responsible. That is the economic policy we have been doing for over two and a half years. Thanks to the good behavior of the Spanish economy in the second quarter of last year, today we have had the good news that the public debt ratio at the end of 2020 was set at around 117%, I insist, thanks to the good behavior of the Spanish economy and, let me say it here - you yourself have talked about the excellent officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation - thanks to the excellent management of the Treasury of the Kingdom of Spain. That's why we closed 2020 with a debt ratio that's below the government's forecast for last year, below the forecast we even had for 2021. Once again I must say that reality confirms the Government's prudence in all its forecasts; we have seen it with activity data, we have seen it with employment data, with the unemployment rate and now we see it with the public debt ratio. The economic policy of the Government is being effective and responsible. The increase in the public deficit and public debt responds to the need to take extraordinary measures to respond to an absolutely extraordinary situation, as all countries in our environment have done, because in the face of a crisis of the magnitude that we are experiencing it is essential to give a strong response to protect the productive fabric. We must maintain these stimulus measures as long as it is necessary at a time of as much uncertainty as the current one. I'm telling you clearly, Mr. Garcés, because you're talking about spending increases. No, no, we are taking measures to protect the productive fabric, employment and income of families and, frankly, I think that we have to continue to do so during the hard weeks that we still have ahead. The position of the Spanish Government in this regard is very clear in all European debates. This very week I said it in the Eurogroup. Fiscal and monetary policy must continue to act decisively and co-ordinatedly to support economic growth and job creation as a priority in 2021, because economic growth is the greatest guarantee of reducing public debt levels in the future, when we recover sustained growth. What is beyond doubt is the commitment of this government to budgetary stability, to that responsible economic policy to which I have referred, which we have been launching since June 2018 and which we continue to firmly support. We cannot forget that this debt that we are assuming today to respond to the pandemic will be paid tomorrow by our children and grandchildren, who are also one of the most affected groups by this social and economic crisis when they had not yet finished recovering from the damage caused by the previous financial crisis. As the President of the Government said this morning, the priority now has to be very clear to everyone: to protect health, to protect employment and social progress. That is why, rather than focusing on the level of debt, we must ensure that this collective effort that we are making turns into greater opportunities for progress for the younger generations of our country, and for that we need to have very clear economic policy priorities this year. First, continue to control the pandemic and advance the vaccination process. Secondly, continue to support the families, the self-employed, the workers and the companies to cape these complicated, hard weeks that we still have ahead of us, as I told you a moment ago. And, thirdly, quickly implement the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan on the basis of both the State General Budgets and the Royal Decree-Law on Administrative Acceleration, two absolutely fundamental tools - and forgive me for saying it again, Mr. Garcés, but I really think so - two tools that I think should have been unanimously supported by all the parties in this House, including yours, Your Honor. This is what we are focusing our efforts from the Government on, on these clear economic policy priorities, and, ladies and gentlemen, as I have clearly said in relation to the specific question with which you have closed your question, the rest of the debates that do not add up to this collective and shared objective seems to me to be neither proprietary nor productive; they are artificial and sterile. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to make a projection that's a fiction, I'm going to put myself in your office on Friday or Monday, which is when you tell your advisors how we have to answer questions and parliamentary questions, and the game is next. This is like children's play, you can't say either yes or no or the opposite. The creation of sterile debates does not provoke us, it will have been caused by the president of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party or it will have been caused by the Secretary of State of Mr. Pablo Iglesias. [[applause]] But I insist, Madam Vice-President, that it is essential that in the parliamentary game, in the political control game, we have the capacity to ask and you to respond directly. You know the game very well, that game is very simple, almost more basic than that of Salvador Illa, which was already basic, which is: shoulder with shoulder - you do not strive - we have worked hard, we have made multiple proposals that have been consistently ignored, and when we have agreed we have supported it, Madam Vice President. So let us not lie, let us not hide the truth in that way. First that. Secondly, they say we say fragmentary data, and then I'll use the famous 'Give me a point of support and move the world' syndrome. If we are the worst in all the economic indicators of the European Union, why do you insist on seeking a path of light? I understand, it is your obligation from the point of view of your position in the Government, but you too have to face, I insist, your own ghosts, who are the ghosts that are right now in the Council of Ministers. I am grateful that Mr. Iglesias has stayed here, at least Mr. Iglesias will have heard what he had to hear. After the greater attack on the media that I have heard in this rostrum, after yesterday's attack on freedom not of expression, freedom of walk, personal freedom, freedom of the Democrats, it turns out that we are now coming here and we are not being answered. Vice President, I'm going to try again, but it's an exercise already almost of psychological exhaustion - we continue with the cinema -, The mechanical orange. For the Malay drop, answer yes or no. What does it mean to answer yes or no? Do you or do you not subscribe to the position of the president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Secretary of State for Social Rights, Mr. Jordi Sevilla, who has been Minister of Economy, in the famous manifesto? [[applause]] I too know that a balance must be maintained between fiscal policy and monetary policy, it is not we who break that balance precisely, it is you. Can you, who is a reputed official, tell me what impact these statements have on the European Commission? Do you know what crisis of identity, reputation, representativeness we have when we hear those things? Because you, regrettably - indeed, not leasing your profits - are attached to a government vice president who goes for free, who is an anomaly in himself, and not because of his political thinking - everyone can think what he wants - but because he doesn't know where he is, because he thinks he is still an opinionator, and every time he thinks he produces a major crisis in our system, in our public system, in our economic system, a reputational crisis. It's not you, Madam Vice President, I know. That is why I ask you as responsible for the area to at least deny the largest, to avoid that small debate that will force your advisors and you when you review the speech and answer us directly. I don't follow anymore because, if I don't, I'm going to step down from the rostrum considering this doesn't matter. I ask the question again, and if it comes here and says yes or no we avoid child's play. Do you agree with the manifesto signed by the president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mrs Narbona, and the Secretary of State for Social Rights? I'm going to set an example for everyone to understand, those who don't know about the economy, anyone who goes through the street. The other day Mr. Bal set an example that I liked very much and I used - excuse me, Mr. Bal - in some media talking about the Okupas. It's true, when someone is taken off their wallet they say: no, you don't stop me because I'm vulnerable. This is the same thing. Here we have a Vice-President who does the same thing: I can enter the house because I am vulnerable, and they will also declare me vulnerable, and I will already seek the material legal status of vulnerable, and I have no responsibility or imputability whatsoever. But besides now, after I do that, I'm going to go to the bank and I'm going to say he didn't pay the mortgage. What am I paying the mortgage for? Because fate is mine, I want my destiny back. Condon I mortgage it, take the house and become the owner of my destiny again. Spain 2021. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u162	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u163	Thank you, President. Three elements to answer the question, Mr. Garcés. First element. I insist, I will not contribute to sterile debates that do not respond at all to the current priorities, to what really matters to the Spanish citizens. To this I dedicate my days, to this I dedicate my work and to this I devote my time in Parliament, to talking to the Spanish citizens and their elected representatives, who are here in this House, what really matters, what we have been doing, what we intend to do and economic policy priorities for the future. I think this is important, but it is clear that we do not have the same order of priorities as you and I. Second point. I don't know what you mean when you talk about representational, identity, reputational crises. I do not know very well what it refers to, because it is clear that Spain is a solvent, reliable country, which honours its commitments, which has great respect for both our partners, the governments of the rest of European countries, as well as for the rest of the partners and multilateral institutions, of the financial markets, as I have pointed out in explaining the state of public debt. Today we have had good news in this regard, thanks to the good evolution of the Spanish economy and the excellent management that is being carried out by the Treasury of the Kingdom of Spain. So I don't know what you mean or what kind of doubts, confusion you want to sow with your appearance. The third point is that I also do not understand your insistence that we are the last. I just don't know what you're talking about. Are you talking about economics or about election results? [[Applauds]] Because I don't know that self-flagellation insistence that contributes. I do not share your vision of Spain at all, I have to tell you. And it's not looking for a light, it's that I think Spain is a great country, it's that I think we're going to go ahead, that we have a lot of assets, that we have a productive fabric and flexible companies, that we have a solidarity society, strong, cohesive, that's going to go ahead, that's superimposed on adversities. I believe that we have taken the right economic policy measures since March, which you have endorsed in this Congress and which we all have to value. I believe that we will continue to act with determination and ambition to respond effectively in health, economic and social terms. And I think we can recover the path of economic growth that we were on before the pandemic and lay the foundations for more sustainable and inclusive growth. What I can assure you is that that is what the government is in. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Santiago Romero asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Santiago. On the basis of which article do you ask me to speak?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u165	Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, for a personal mention made by Mr Garcés. I understand it must have been a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u166	You have one minute to make strict mention of the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u167	Yes, he has mentioned exactly what he hopes Mr. Santiago will not offer if a serious crime is committed against him. I do not appeal to Mr. Garcés to any rule, because he has every right from the rostrum to enjoy his inviolability and to say even any dislatement or barbarity, but I do appeal to his education, to his respect for my person, to his seriousness, and I ask him to withdraw any personal mention to a supposed joy that I would have if any serious crimes were committed against him.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO COMPLETE ALL THE SPAINS WHO HAVE BEEN PROHIBITED TO WORK. [[File number 172/000076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u169	We turn to the next item: Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into what measures the Government is going to take to compensate all Spaniards who have been banned from working. For your defence, Mrs. Rueda Perelló has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u170	Mr Díaz, of Citizens, in his speech has devoted more time to defaming VOX than to questioning Churches; another opportunity they have wasted. Minister, since the first unconstitutional state of alarm was decreed on 14 March and, subsequently, the second state of alarm on 25 October, millions of Spaniards have been denied a vital right, the right to work. With its decrees, the Socialist Party, Podemos and the rest of the complicit parties have granted this negligent government the power to dodge parliamentary control and to decide on the life of the Spaniards; a concession that our compatriots are paying dearly, dearly, with their death and ruin. Spain led the rate of contagion for every 100,000 inhabitants, our health workers had no way of protecting themselves and left in the residences those elderly people who died alone without being able to say goodbye to their loved ones. This crisis, originated by the Communist Chinese virus and aggravated by the evil government, has plunged us into the deepest misery and depression. Just read the headlines: the collapse of the profit of Spanish companies doubles that of the rest of Europe; Brussels fears a wave of corporate bankruptcies in Spain. At a rate of 16.4%, Spain leads unemployment in the European Union and we have the highest youth unemployment rate in Europe, to which we must add child poverty and social exclusion. I could go on, but you know what? You'd better visit the neighborhoods. I give you what you will see: queues of hunger, closed shops, establishments that in their blinds have 'transmitted', taxi stops without customers, buses stopped in the garages because they do not have tourists to move, car rental companies in bankruptcy, sealed hotels. You will see that and, if you have a little empathy or a hint of kindness, you will feel sadness; sadness because behind each closure there are broken dreams, decades of effort and there is a lot of sacrifice because for a long time they tried to stay afloat. Behind each closure there are layoffs, thousands of layoffs, ruin and misery. The lies and erratic decisions of those who rule increase the cemeteries and queues of hunger. We have in the government a Sánchez who does not recognize the number of deaths in Spain by coronavirus, to whose relatives and relatives we send a affectionate embrace. [[Applauds]] We have a Sanchez who in May said that the minutes of that committee of experts were going to be published, and we are still waiting; a Church voiced about social justice and workers' rights, that all it does for them is condemn them to unemployment from its watchdog established in hatred and confrontation and that it is responsible for those elders whom we do not forget. Sánchez said he won't deal with Churches and now there are many Spaniards who don't sleep, and that's what Sanchez said he wasn't going to sleep. It is the Spaniards who do not sleep because they do not know how they will pay the payroll, the rent, the mortgage, the taxes, the ERTE, and do not know how to do at home to disguise, because, instead of going to work, they have to go to the queue of hunger and they have to disguise in front of their children. This executive is the most opaque and disloyal to all Spaniards, and that happens when the lie is the most loyal companion. Sánchez and Iglesias are experts in lies and the lordships of the PSOE and Podemos, together with the independenceists, separatists and philotetras, are complicit in accepting and justifying them. This government is occupied by its war: workers-entrepreneurs, men-women, right-left, power-red clientele, cover corruption, chair distribution, discriminatory ideology and a green agenda. They justify their incompetence by saying they close to protect us; the worst government at the worst time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, do you still think that our motion of censure was not justified? VOX was the first to expose real solutions to real problems, and we were called xenophobes and alarmists when we spoke a year ago of border control, mass testing, PPE. Of course there is a virus; a virus that has attacked Spain more because of its negligent management. Of course Spain must protect itself, but it cannot stop. No public administration has the right to prohibit any economic activity, when they are not compensated for expropriating the right to work. [[Applauds]] We have a government whose star measure is that: banning the Spanish from working. They condemn hoteliers, merchants, hoteliers, travel agencies, beauty centers, gyms, nightlife, culture - museums, cinemas, theatres -, taxi drivers, VTC drivers, discretionary service; a government that abandons the entire value chain of commerce and tourism. But of course, Minister, how will they defend them if they have as their government partners the alpha male and the communist Garzón, that what they do is attack by saying that it is a sector with little added value? Restrictions and mobility is the only thing they know how to do. The shift politicians of the Government and the autonomous communities and cities do not solve the massification of transport at peak hours and seem to obviate that the virus not only attacks from curfew hours. Those politicians who make their lists and decide what the essential jobs are, forgetting that the Spaniards need to work. For VOX all work is essential because you know what we stand for, it's the bread of families and they want bread, not crumbs. [[Applauds]] Minister, we want to know what steps the Government will take to compensate all Spaniards who have been banned from working. Are you going to compensate them for expropriating a vital right? Germany, France and Italy took action and took less than a month. Italy did not allow more than a week to pass between the publication of hotel restrictions and the approval of subsidies to bars and restaurants. The main European countries have opted for strong corporate protection, with the aim of avoiding the destruction of business fabric and the destruction of employment. They have chosen to cover fixed costs - in the case of Denmark -, to subsidise as a result of the fall in billing - Australia, Germany or Italy -, the fall in VAT to stimulate demand - in the case of the United Kingdom - and tourist bonuses - in Greece -. Here we've been waiting eleven months for an effective plan. So this government, if it decides anything now, will be late. Spain's hospitality - you know, I told you clearly in your previous appearance here - needs direct help and does not justify the government putting it in the hands of the autonomous communities, because they are aware that this generates inequality. Months of inactivity have had a very negative impact on the economy and hope. According to the Banco de España, one in five companies will be inviable and representatives of the hotel industry say that they have already closed 100,000 companies; we will lose almost one million jobs; 30% of the shops will close; 70% and 50% of the agencies in the night leisure; we add transport and other sectors. They're getting into an unsustainable situation. Tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick-tick. You don't hear him, do you? It's the time that passes, it's the red numbers, it's the agony and the despair. The Banco de España states that the volume of companies with viability problems has increased, the risks multiply: losses, insolvent companies. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand that, so I'm going to explain it to you in a very simple way. If they forbid them to work, they have no income; if they have no income, they cannot meet their expenses, business or household expenses; and if they have no resources, they condemn them to misery and hunger. From the classes of mathematics for progress we have moved to basic lessons of common sense for socialist and Puemite politicians, who yesterday, by the way, voted not, along with Republican Esquerra and PNV, to measures to protect night leisure, travel agencies and trade fairs. Then they'll say they're worried. [[Applauds]] There is an important risk for Spain, there are many small businesses that have no liquidity, autonomous ones that can no longer. The crisis plagues the middle classes and increases inequality. The tails of hunger are the result of the failure of public policies and the solution are not minimal income in the style of Venezuela; the solution is employment and liquidity, which we have always defended because we want a nation that can prosper. Closures? Last week we heard the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. It confirmed that low contagion rates in the hospitality sector make the restrictions imposed clearly unjustified. In the car it is explained how 80% of the infections have occurred in the private sphere and not in the hotel industry. It argues that it is best to prevent the generation of serious unjustified economic failures as a result of the total closure of the establishments. Something that has always defended VOX. They should be aware that VOX has urged the Government to promote, on the basis of the decision of this court, the necessary measures to ensure the immediate opening of the hotel establishments, indemnifying them for the loss of income for the obligation to close their business. [[Applauds]] What are the measures of this Government? I take the job away, you can't pay the rent, but I allow you to occupy houses; I forbid you to work, but don't worry that you still charge the ERTE and, if not, then go queue to eat. But thank me because the minimum life I'm guaranteeing, the maximum not, the minimum. I'm not going to raise taxes; oh, no, I am, I'm going to raise them, but it's called redistribution. I raise the price of children's milk, light, tuition fees, but thank me because above you are contributing to the common good. I'll close your business, but you pay me taxes, which I have to keep ideological chiringuitos. What if, instead of putting their hand in the pockets of the Spaniards, they eliminate chiringuitos and subsidies to their media friends, those who cover their shames? What if they cut the barren ministries, that we have the government with more ministries? What if we save the 450 million of the ministry of inequality and the 100 million of the new official cars? I could go on, but I'll finish. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the services sector, which is so much under attack, is a sector of great added value. There are great professionals. In the hospitality, for example, a waiter not only serves you a coffee, much more, you rejoice the day with his good days, with a what, how you are, with that cheesecake, served with that smile that we perceive, although we cannot see it through the mask. Ladies and gentlemen, you must look with your eyes and with your heart. Thanks to the professionals of this house and to all the hoteliers of Spain. Thanks to all those who work in the services sector. This is the humble recognition of the VOX Parliamentary Group, because they are people who understand the service to all others as mission and as a way of life. Because there is nothing more noble than the one who decides to put his life at the service of others. Serving is helping each other with a collaborative attitude. So the next day you think 'poor added value' take into consideration the motto you say at the entrance to the Madrid School of Hospitality: It's not worth who serves, it's worth who. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u172	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rueda, you come up here and say contradictory things. It goes up to claim aid from this government for the sectors most affected by the crisis when you and your parliamentary group have voted against protecting the employment of millions of Spaniards; they have voted against the flexibility of the ERTE; against, Your Honor, the extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed people; against extending the deficiencies of the ICOs; against, in short, protecting, as I say, the employment of millions of workers and protecting those SMEs and self-employed people that you now defend. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Your Honor, your party has acted against the general interest, it has acted without providing any measures to combat the pandemic and the economic and social crisis. Moreover, they have used it to make the crisis a continuous confrontation with the Government. They have acted, as I say, against the government, rather than defeating our common enemy, which is the virus. Mrs Rueda, ladies and gentlemen, you all know firsthand the assessment of the pandemic at national and international level. The first thing I would like to make clear is that the health of all Spanish people is a priority right now. Without health, Your Honor, there is no economy that works and the evolution of the data shows this. Each time the incidence of the virus is out of control, this has an immediate effect on economic activity, as high-frequency indicators such as card spending or mobility show. But also the pandemic is forcing all countries in our environment, the autonomous communities, to take measures to control the evolution of the virus and no one, no authority, likes to order the closure of any establishment, Your Honor, but sometimes it is necessary to avoid contagion, to avoid further hospital pressure and therefore more dead. You talk about the deceased and the doctors, but certainly the strategy, which is, by the way, endorsed by the World Tourism Organization, is that things don't work out if we don't actually meet that priority. Therefore, when you go up to the rostrum, don't talk about contradictions, talk very clearly about how you want to control the pandemic and how you want, in fact, to turn this control back into an economic recovery. Look, from the beginning of the pandemic one of our priorities has, of course, been to protect the health of the Spaniards, I told you, but also to protect businesses, workers and family incomes. And we will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen, until this crisis is over; a very different way of dealing with the crisis that the previous government had. We have had almost a complicated year from the health point of view, but also economic and social, and the important thing, Your Honor, is that we now have to work together to make 2021 the year of economic recovery and employment. And I would like to highlight three priorities that will mark the Government's action this year and which also inform how to address the recovery of our economy. The first priority is, Your Honor, to control the pandemic. The rapid and effective deployment of the vaccination process in both Spain and Europe and in our main issuing markets is undoubtedly essential for our economy to recover as soon as possible. In Spain, as you know, more than 2.6 million vaccines have been supplied and more than a million people have already completed the vaccination schedule, the two doses. It is certainly good news and a fundamental element in seeing how our economy is also recovering. Moreover, if anything has taught us this crisis, Your Honor, it is the value of solidarity and also the importance of having strong and effective public services. The second priority we are working on is that our productive fabric is protected, avoiding a structural impact on our economy and our society. We will continue to help businesses, employment and family income as long as necessary, as we have been doing for almost a year. But, from the first moment and from the moment the pandemic broke out, as I said, we have reached out to all our productive sectors, we have brought to these Courts important measures that deploy an ambitious safety net, evolving through the pandemic and ensuring, Your Honor, that the necessary measures were taken to address the most affected sectors. The different packages have mobilized an unprecedented amount of resources to ensure liquidity, but also, as I said, to protect the productive fabric and employment. So far we have mobilised more than EUR 40.8 billion in direct aid. The State, Your Honor, pays every month - and I think it is important that you listen to me, Mrs Rueda - the payroll of thousands of workers in this country through the employment regulations you have voted against, but also, Mrs Rueda, the Government pays every month the extra allowance for those self-employed, those hoteliers, those travel agencies and that discretionary transport which, as I say, receives that allowance every month. But also, Your Honor, we have included, as you know, the temporary inability to cover the various situations arising from the COVID and have extended the benefits for unemployed workers and fixed discontinuous workers. As I say, there has been a mobilization of resources and direct aid of more than EUR 40.8 billion. You said that responsibility should not lie with the Autonomous Communities. I do not know whether it is because you are supporting governments in autonomous communities that have not put any measure or aid to these sectors that you are defending today. To date, 116 billion in loans have also been mobilised in support of the productive fabric, in addition to the exemptions from social security contributions not only to workers who are not carrying out their activities, but also from the summer to which they are working and, therefore, also giving an additional injection to companies throughout the reactivation phase. In all, Your Honor, we have mobilised more than 20% of GDP in direct aid and liquidity measures, and we have done so also within the framework of the social dialogue, which I would like to thank for being put at the service of Spain and at the service of the Spaniards not only to protect health, but also employment and business. Your Honor, this is a direct and real income injection for citizens and I think it is important to put it into value, because these are resources that we are paying all Spanish taxpayers, which we pay with our taxes. Yes, Mrs. Rueda. For what? To support businesses, to support the self-employed and, ultimately, to support the most affected sectors. That is why we certainly need to value public policies and services. Our priority, I believe, is clear: to protect the productive fabric and employment and to prevent the pandemic from having a structural impact that will undermine growth and increase inequalities. We are all aware that, despite the vaccination process, there are still months to go, and we must therefore continue to protect and support the hardest hit sectors in order to consolidate vigorous growth in the second part of the year. He had no doubt that the measures were being effective. Your Honor, you were referring to some press headlines. Clearly you have taken the hecatombe and the catastrophe, but this very week the European Commission, as you know, has published the winter forecasts and, with all caution and with great uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic, the Commission expects the Spanish economy to be the one that will grow the most in the year 2021 throughout the European Union and that this positive trend will continue in the coming years. [[Rumors]] Last, Your Honor, the third priority will be the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, a plan to boost growth and job creation that is already going to deploy since 2021 a whole series of investments and reforms that lay the foundation for the transformation of our productive model and allow us to move towards that economy - yes, Mrs Rueda - more sustainable, more equal and more socially responsible. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u173	Excuse me, Minister. I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u174	That is why we will count on the 2021 General State Budgets with 27 billion euros of investment in priorities that we will develop with a road map of transformative reforms to modernize our economy and increase our growth potential. In recent weeks, we have seen, Your Honor, an enormous interest on the part of all public administrations, companies and social partners, who have sent us hundreds of proposals and responses to the public consultations we have launched, which confirms, Your Honor, that the priorities of the Recovery Plan are aligned with the whole of society. They do not seem to be aligned with the priorities of your parliamentary group. I conclude with the main ideas of my speech. First of all, we must continue to control the pandemic. We need to move forward and speed up vaccination and to strengthen the security and confidence that are so important for economic recovery. Secondly, we must continue to protect our productive fabric and employment, especially in the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and boost growth and recover the jobs lost during these months. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must take advantage of the opportunity provided by European funds not only to promote recovery, but also to address the process of transforming and modernising our productive model so that it is more competitive, more sustainable, more inclusive and, yes, Your Honor, more egalitarian, because gender equality is also part of the project not only of this government but of society as a whole. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Rueda Perelló. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u176	Minister, you've told me contradictory. The truth is that I cannot allow it, especially when you speak from the government of treason and when it is you who contradict yourself. He said: They voted against. And I say to him: Yes, we have voted against all that is not good for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And they know, they know, and they try to discredit us, but they can't. He has also talked about measures and it turns out that you consider direct aid to the ERTE, those ERTE that do not arrive and whose processing is chaos. More than EUR 116 billion of financing through ICO lines, but that is called indebtedness. And the sector is also very dissatisfied because it turns out that banks raise interest rates to these ICO credits. They've forced them to finance themselves and they sell it as a victory when it's a betrayal again. Vaccines don't arrive. He has referred to them and that is his responsibility. Effective measures, work. I encourage all those who govern to read the more than 6000 initiatives recorded by the VOX Parliamentary Group during the first state of alarm, with real and very effective solutions. [[applause]] On 31 March, we presented ten measures under the Protejamos España programme which were based on employment and liquidity. If they had carried them out we wouldn't be as we are now, with those dead people and those Spaniards in the queues of hunger. I would also like to thank these magnificent 52 VOX Members, because they have done an immeasurable job, a job based on experience, professionalism and technical profiles. And, really, I told you once in a Commission, all our initiatives are registered and we put them at your disposal. They just have to read them and copy them, it's very simple. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, he was talking about these European funds, but these European funds - like this Social Communist Government - have priorities: gender ideology and sustainability. And gender ideology and sustainability - which is what is often also done in tourism - do not feed, do not provide liquidity. They also constantly attack the services sector and the tourism sector by talking about a failed model, but the model that fails is that of the current government, with each of the initiatives that sadly are approved in this House and with each of the initiatives that they approve wherever they govern. [[Applauds]] He was talking to me about the headlines. I have no interest - none, believe me - in choosing the worst headlines. It's not our style, but it's that you open the news and that's what you see. Today we have heard that the Spanish public debt has risen to its highest level since the Cuban war, after reaching 117%. I wish I could bring you good headlines but there aren't. I don't know where you guys are looking, I don't know if it's gonna be any of your friends, I don't know. Finally, I want to tell you that when you attack us, you do not attack us, you attack the millions of Spaniards we represent, and we are more and more every day. Although they attack ours, with stones, with insults, and slanders, like the one we live in this House today, they make us stronger because every day we have more reason to continue working, to fight against their ideology, to fight against their roller that they want to impose on us, to fight against that cosification that they want to do to us women, to fight against that poverty that they want to impose on all Spaniards, to fight against those measures that are done from offices, without taking into account the real needs. [[applause]] We always tell them: we want real solutions to real problems, but if they don't know what the problems are because they look the other way, because they try to make it up and because they lie again, they won't be able to solve them. So to these 52 magnificent deputies of VOX and to all the elected offices - I congratulate here the new elected positions in the Parliament of Catalonia because at last the voice of many Catalans will be heard and will be raised in a brilliant way - I thank you, because it is seen that the only parliamentary group, that the only option, that the only social, political, economic and patriotic movement is VOX. They just have to see the work we do every day and what we count from this rostrum. We will fight you and your lie. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u178	Thank you, President. Mrs Rueda, after listening to you again, I repeat what I said to you before: your party has contributed absolutely nothing to combat the pandemic and the economic and social crisis. Its strategy since the beginning of the pandemic has been confrontation with the Government, and the worst part is that it uses the virus to confront the Government rather than combat it. When the single pandemic management command was established with the first state of alarm, we were accused of violating fundamental rights and encouraged demonstrations against the Government and against the state of alarm. The leader of his party came to say: there are reasons, more than ever, for protesting against the government that ruins us. They voted against the extensions of the state of alarm and filed an amparo application with the Constitutional Court, Your Honor, which was rejected by not proceeding against a rule of law. Therefore, it does not speak of a state of unconstitutional alarm, because the Constitutional Court itself has given them the answer. But let's go to the bottom, Your Honor. What are VOX's proposals to get out of the health and economic crisis? Look at the contradictions they have: they ask us for more help and vote against the most important ones when we bring them to validate this plenary; they have voted, as I have said, against protecting the employment of thousands of workers, against the ERTE, from the benefit for self-employed, from the deficiencies of the ICOs, from the mortgage moratoriums; against, sir, guaranteeing the supplies of electricity, water and gas for vulnerable people. You do generate the queues of hunger and not us, who fight them. I do recognize that they had a hint of lucidity in the face of the irresponsibility of the People's Party, when they abstained in the validation of the Royal Decree-Law on the speeding up of European funds. It's the only thing, Your Honor, they've done well in what we're in the legislature. But when we go to his idea, everything is diluted in proposals without consistency. You are asking for taxes to be lowered constantly, without taking account of the economic cycle; you are asking for taxes to be lowered to the richest and, at the same time, you are asking us to spend more on aid to sectors and also to control public debt. This is the square of the rule circle, less taxes, more spending, less debt. It's impossible, Mrs. Rueda. I'm an economist and I've been teaching about this square for many years, which, as I say, is impossible. You can't be more contradictory at the same time. Gabriel Zucman said in a recent interview something that I fully share: the taxes that you want to lower those very rich that you defend or we end up paying them others or the government has to cut in education, health or infrastructure. There's no more, Your Honor. What we do know is that your party, as I said, has contributed nothing during the pandemic; what we do know, Your Honor, is that your party's priority is not to fight the pandemic, but to confront the government and, of course, to dispute hegemony on the right of the People's Party. You turn the plenary of Congress, and you have done so again, into a battlefield, where hystrionic and sterile debates are taking place, and when the important issues - yes, Your Honor - come along, the issues that allow us to protect millions of companies, millions of jobs, give that vital minimum income that is addressing a great structural problem that is poverty, there they are profiled, they vote against and, no doubt, they are irresponsible. As I was telling you, all the actions we have developed since the beginning of the pandemic are allowing us to protect a solid base of industrial and business fabric, cushioning the negative impact of the pandemic and avoiding deep structural effects that would jeopardize our recovery. At the moment, we have already recovered more than 70% of the employment destroyed; we have incorporated more than three million workers who were in ERTE and, no doubt, the three priorities - as I said - in which we are working are: speeding up the vaccination process, continuing to protect the most vulnerable sectors and putting in place the investments associated with European funds. As I said, these are our priorities. And I end with a piece of advice, Your Honor, the pandemic has to force us to agree, to dialogue, to meet again. I hope that we will be able to find and provide solutions to a health, economic and social crisis and continue to contribute so that, indeed, women continue to incorporate our wealth and talent into an economy - yes, Your Honor - that needs women to arrive at the end of the month. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u179	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u180	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group, on whether the Government is planning a turn in its territorial policy and, in particular, on the conflict with Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u181	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Four conclusions, almost four obviations after Sunday; and there my intervention will be centered. The first, that of Catalonia no longer only goes from independenceists or unionists, self-determinationists or autonomists, sovereignists or Spaniards, republicans or monarchists; at the moment when eleven deputies of the far right enter,, of the extreme right of fascism-Applause, applause, fascists - in the Parliament of Catalonia, this already goes from fascism and anti-fascism, as has always been, especially in Catalonia, especially in Basque, but as never before, at least in Catalonia. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Fascism already has a political arm in the seat of Catalan popular sovereignty. Fascism, therefore, does not understand borders and is as inoculated in the Salamanca neighborhood of Madrid as in the Sarrià-Sant Gervasi neighborhood of Barcelona. A fascist is a fascist, speak the language he speaks, was born in Madrid, Barcelona or Timbuktu. And what does the most progressive government in history do about this? For, look, in five days, only five, a Spanish Television worker has been fired for a label; Cristina Cifuentes has been acquitted for cheating - quiet -; Pablo Hasel has been imprisoned for raping; the police have beaten and fired with real fire in Linares; the Government delegation has authorized a Nazi hand' in Madrid, and the Supreme wants to re-incarcerate our comrades and comrades savagely imprisoned. [[rumors]] In five days; in five days. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, in the end, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, feed these people by silence, as silence; yes, yes, by silence, as silence; or, worse still, by collaborating, as you sometimes collaborate. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that apart from Twitter - which is very well tweeting very angry - they have the BOE, they have the BOE. To tweet when one can legislate is not solidarity, it is cynicism - cynicism - and not to criticize when something is wrong is not institutionalism, it is medievalism, as it is. Second obvious. The independent and anti-determinist lefts have won - they have won -, we have won and add, as never before, and that forces them, forces us, mandates us, condemns us to understand us, and Republican Left as the winner of this bloc wants to assume and assumes the leadership of that majority and wants to bind all the independent, sovereign and self-determinant lefts around it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communs, ladies and gentlemen of the UPCs, let's try and do this; let's make the left prevail once and for all on a broad front, once and for all in the Government of the Generalitat and, please, let's stop keeping pace with those who had won so much that they thought the country was theirs. Third obviousness. Let me bar you home. On Sunday, a whole speech, a whole way of doing and a whole strategy within independence was reinforced and strengthened; a speech, a way of doing and a strategy that has won the largest electoral cycle of its history to this party, my party, in ninety years of history. Let's believe it, we're nobody's servants. Let us therefore face a new cycle, a new horizon in which no more is said than an independentist by the mere fact of being an ethnicist, nor in which no more is said than the son of an Andalusian is said to be a colonist; no more against anyone. Ethnicism is ethnicism if you have the homeland in your heart. And fourth obviousness. Independence has won by more than 50% of the vote. In the Parliament of Catalonia there will be 74 Members of Parliament unequivocally independent, and in the Parliament of Catalonia above all - I stress, above all - there will be 82 Members of Parliament unequivocally in favour of a dialogued and agreed political solution to the political conflict between Spain and Catalonia; a majority, an undeniable reality, and there are no TVs, there are no judges, there are not enough cops to deny, and above all, it mandates you. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I ask you a question: What will Mr Illa do as head of the opposition in Catalonia, what will he do? Will he act like Citizens? It's a bad business: from 36 seats to 6; from winning the election to almost getting into a van. It's a bad business. Do politics, leave the jail and do politics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u182	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u183	I'm done, Madam President. Fiscalia or dialogue table? Prison and lies or negotiation and pact? We, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition of the Catalonian Parliament, are not going to disappear; neither are you. Let's do our job and do politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u184	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lord Rufián, get used to it, there are eleven, but it will be twenty-two, thirty-two, until we remove them. [[Applauds]] Get used to it. The motion presented to us by the friends of the stones, the totalitarians, those of the threats, those of the insults, is summed up in one consideration: that the Government of the Spanish nation must kneel down to negotiate with them an alleged right of self-determination, break the nation and trample the Constitution, no more or less. But to come to that conclusion, you are developing through your motion an explanation of reasons that I will allow myself to read in front of all of you, because it is the best mirror of hypocrisy, lies and fanaticism to which you may have reached in politics here, at the seat of national sovereignty. I begin by reading: Catalonia has been living since the referendum on self-determination... What referendum on self-determination? That wasn't a referendum, Mr. Rufian, don't lie. That was the prelude to a coup d'état; they attacked the National Police and the Civil Guard, disobeyed court sentences and trampled on the Constitution. [[Applauds]] I keep reading: One of the most complex periods in recent history due to the repression suffered by the Spanish State... Mr. Rufián, in Catalonia repression is suffered by parents who want to educate their children in freedom, traders who want to label their shops as they please. [[Applauds]] The repression is suffered by all Catalans who feel proud of Catalonia, but also of Spain, and want to speak in the mother tongue and cannot. The repression is suffered by parties like ours, who try to make a free and democratic campaign and do not leave their minions. I keep reading: Despite everything, the independence claim raised by a large part of Catalan citizenship... You haven't heard what happened on February 14. You separatists have received one in four votes from the entire Catalan electorate, one in four votes. Don't let him know! You say: The project of the Catalan Republic, as happens in democratically mature societies... Look, with regard to the Catalan Republic project, I won't go too far and repeat that mythical phrase that a mosso d'ésquadra said to a violent October 1 protestor: The Catalan Republic doesn't exist, asshole! [[Applauds]] With regard to democratically mature societies, I believe that you have had a lapse here. He is referring to Maduro's dictatorship because democracy and maturity in what is happening in Catalonia is far, far away from reality. I'm still reading. They say that this diversity of views does not threaten democratic coexistence in Catalonia. Of course, in that you are right, if it is those who threaten democratic coexistence, it is you, it is the CDRs, it is those who throw stones, it is those who spit, it is those who insult, it is those who violate the laws, it is those who disobey the courts. [[Applauds]] Those are you who threaten democratic coexistence. I'm still reading this pearl. [[The Lord]] It says: they are building a participatory, tolerant and active society from respect for freedom of thought, expression and political participation. But what respect for freedom of expression and political participation there was on 14 February! I can tell you how in the 5,000 kilometers I've traveled you threatened me, insulted me, how you've attacked our candidates. What participation, what freedom of expression there is in that propaganda machine, which is TV3 and RAC! But what are you talking about, Catalonia or your dreams?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They have no idea and, moreover, they lie. [[Applauds]] You say in the last paragraph of this exhibition - you don't think it's very long, much you haven't worked, it's half paragraph -: Faced with this complex reality, there is a wide and cross-sectional majority of about 80%. But what do you mean 80%? Of the entire electorate in Catalonia, in addition to the separatist parties, it is exactly 26%. But don't lie, man, don't lie. Half of them go to vote in the elections, and of them those who vote for them - don't you tell lies - don't even reach one of four Catalans. We continue to read, already to finish and not bore your lordships too much. They say they bet on a peaceful exit - the people of pa while throwing stones - and democratic - referendum of self-determination as a respectful response to human rights and international treaties according to democratic principles - but do you want to tell me what they have to do with human rights, democratic principles and international treaties threats, stones...? They're burning Barcelona because they've served a court order. The only thing I give you the reason for everything you have said in this House is when you said that more and more workers are voting for VOX. Get ready, because there will be millions of workers. [[Applauds]] I'll end up telling you something. National sovereignty resides in this House. In the Spanish people, according to article 1.2, it is where sovereignty resides, and Catalonia, like any other beloved region of Spain, is a part of the Spanish people. Therefore, remember, Catalonia is more than a nation, more than a nation, it is part of a great nation called Spain. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u186	Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Firstly, I would like to condemn the acts of street terrorism that took place yesterday in many parts of Catalonia. Secondly, I wanted to tell all those who came out in this rostrum, yesterday and today, to defend Mr Hasel that they might have a little empathy, because one of his phrases is that he enjoys every time ETA blows a pepper's head off. [[Applauds]] Even if it is only because in this House there is with us the sister of two people to whom they blew their heads off, a little empathy could be had. From there, Mr. Rufián knows, as all Esquerra knows, that there is not going to be a referendum on self-determination. If there can't be! What is not normal is that we have a minister of public or territorial administrations as we might call him not present here at the seat of national sovereignty. One day we talk about this, the self-determination of a part of Spain, the minister is not here! The Government is missing, that is the problem here. You know that there is not going to be a referendum, because the future of Catalonia, in addition to deciding it by the Catalans, we decided it by the Spanish as a whole, and you know it. That is the problem, which they know and continue to feed the issue. And they keep feeding it because the Socialist Party lets you feed it, but at some point someone's going to look bad, or the Socialist Party or you. You can't fool everyone all the time, and you'll know what you're doing, but you know that this referendum is never going to happen, get on with it. I do not enter in majorities or minorities, that no, that no, no matter, it will never occur. In other places in Spain, they tried with their weapons and they couldn't. You try it in other ways and you'll never be able to do it, make it clear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u188	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u189	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr. Ortega Smith, I think you're very nervous. I suppose the fact that in every people you have gone to, the people respond as they do should not be very pleasant, but calm down, because in Catalonia anti-fascism is a settled value and is a value directly linked to democracy and, moreover, to independence which, by the way, has won the elections again. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, there are not many people, but they will listen to me. These are the thirteenth elections in which independence wins. They can imprison us, prosecute us, threaten us, as the Prosecutor's Office does, with the third degree of the prisoners, they can continue to persecute us. Mr Simancas says that we are going down, but the truth is that the UPC is not, and the truth is that independence is not because we have exceeded 50% either. They take the reality into account, they have a referendum, because, according to the CEO, it seems to them that there are Catalan political prisoners to look at more or less 50% of their voters. In fact, his new minister, Mr Iceta, before the elections said that if there was more than 50% in Catalonia, we would have to speak politically. Make a referendum, put the ballot box, because - look - there is a very clear reading of the Catalan elections, more independence and more left, but there is another very clear reading, unionism stays with these people, it is increasingly right, more rancid and more conservative. So put the ballot boxes on. To the Lords of Podemos. Abstention, talking about a referendum on self-determination? Are you going to go further with the PSOE? More? The PSOE treats them badly. The Spanish government treats them badly and is not a good business in Catalonia. To the gentlemen of Esquerra. A motion? Does that mean we all assume the dialogue table isn't working, right? We agree, let's get to work: referendum of self-determination, universal basic income, amnesty and ecological transition. That's what our people have said. I ended, Mr President, with a few words from Joan Margarit, who left us yesterday, poet dear to all. I end with a few words from Joan Margarit, because for the referendum, for basic income, for amnesty and for the ecological transition, we will need disobedience. He said: 'Freedom is when dawn begins / on a day of general vagation'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u190	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u191	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. This morning he listened with interest to the conclusions drawn by the President of the Government from last Sunday's elections in Catalonia. It is true that each and every one draws his own conclusions, but I have been surprised that, in an exercise of negationism, among the conclusions he has mentioned, he did not say that independence has won these elections not only in seats but also in votes, which is something that until very few days ago, very few months ago, he pointed out as a handful when listening to independence. Now we see that the extreme right mentions the census. Of course, if you look at it and compare it to its results, it would be poor and ridiculous results. It is true and must be mentioned - another spokesman mentioned it already - that it is bad news and that the entrance of the extreme right is also dangerous, taking into account the dissolution that has practically been made of the Citizen Party and that much of those votes have gone to the extreme right. Mr Sánchez mentions on many occasions the surveys, statistics, rankings, which he likes very much, but, as the spokesman for the UPCs rightly mentioned, there are three clear consensuses in Catalonia that are repeated over the years and that I believe Mr Sánchez is forgotten, and one is that the citizenry is against most of the repression. Three quarters of the citizenry criticizes this repression and calls for sit and talk. Similarly, three quarters or more of the population defend a republican system and are against a monarchical system. But it is also that three-quarters or more of the population claim to own their institutional future, that is, decide to vote on how to organize Catalonia constitutionally. And, of course, this last point is the one that has triggered a wave of repression and now they not only have an unresolved political problem as there are so many in the world, but they also have a repressive problem. I was telling you last week that I am sure that most of you are ashamed to have political prisoners, to be ashamed that the last presidents of the Government of Catalonia have been persecuted and that there are dissidents in exile. They began a controversy by saying, "No, these exiles are not comparable to those of Francoism." No, I don't think so, because if a dictatorship has political prisoners and exiles, it goes into the realm of hope, but if an exemplary democracy has political prisoners and exiles, I think it is much more serious. By the way, once the Illa effect has passed, we now have the Fiscal-Illa effect. They couldn't have made that decision from the D.A. last week, could they? They didn't want to interrupt Mr. Illa's campaign. What seems incomprehensible is that you, so far, have not put in place those mechanisms of deactivation of repression. Because, of course, this goes from two systems. They have the Turkish system, which Mr Erdogan uses with the Kurds, denial, repression, political prisoners, exiles. That is true, always in the name of democracy and the Constitution, because no State recognizes political prisoners. Moreover, there are more ultra sectors than Mr Erdogan; there they have the Grey Wolves representing the extreme right in Turkey and they are also in other countries. And then they have the Western system in which, in the face of territorial and political conflicts as many as there are in the world, there are States that have decided to solve them through the democratic principle by negotiating and establishing voting mechanisms. Here are the examples of arch mentioned from Quebec, Greenland, Northern Ireland, Scotland. They are all different from each other and have different constitutional systems, but in all of them a democratic exit has been sought. Said a man from the far right Navarra that there's never going to be a referendum on self-determination. Yes, that was also said by Mrs Thatcher and ten or fifteen years later Mr Tony Blair arrived and the Good Friday Agreement was established for Northern Ireland's citizens to decide their institutional future and own their future. This is a democracy and it is only resolved by giving citizens the word, so I encourage them to take the western road, close the Turkish road, that Erdogan road, and seek a democratic way out of the political conflict that has not Catalonia, not Euskal Herria, but that has Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u192	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u193	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be straight and brief. I am going to refer to the operative part of the motion, to the part that is actually voted on on negotiating a referendum on self-determination. The Basque Nationalist Party has always defended and will always defend Catalonia's right to self-determination and I fully understand the desire that it can be reflected what Catalonia's will is with regard to its future through this instrument, as we also want that to happen one day for the Basque people. That being said, I am also not very clear on the meaning of today's debate, especially in the sense of putting to the vote an issue that is certainly going to be rejected by this House - more than certainly - and which seems to me to be a key element in the future. I don't think this week or next week, but it's a key element in the future. That is why I also want to say that I was surprised by Mr Illa's statements - I think they were yesterday or before yesterday - in which he stated that what had to be focused on was the real concerns of the citizenry. And it is true that we have to focus on that on the part of any politician or any politician, but the real concerns of the citizenry are not the real concerns of oneself. Although one thinks that there are some things that are not important and that citizens do not care about that, there are certain issues that are repeated over and over again in the institutional, political and electoral spheres. And there is no doubt that this issue is a matter of concern in Catalonia, which is a subject that is there and that is a subject on which the questioner gets support and, therefore, does not remain outside the realm of the real concern of the citizenry. You have to attend to the performance and what comes out. I believe that what was missing, yes, and from the first moment - at that first moment I will refer, before October 1 - was dialogue and there was distrust among the political forces. Today I casually had in my hands the newspapers of July 7, 2017. I can pick up El País, for example, on July 7, 2017, and with the cover it will be enough for them, because on the cover it appears on one side that the socialist spokesman, today ministering in the government, claimed that the Socialist Party would never support the implementation of 155. That same day there had been a meeting between Mr Sánchez, today president, and then President Rajoy, in which the socialist leader urged the government, Mr Rajoy, to dialogue and if not, he said - they can read it on the front page itself, they do not need to go to the inside pages -, 'do not refuse to present initiatives... in search of solutions', including constitutional reform. Well, that in the end was left in the water of drunkards and what happened happened, I said it before and I repeat it again: it lacked dialogue, there was distrust. At that point, to the fact that all the forces have to be moved, but also to a real concern of the citizenry, this discontent at the national level in Catalonia should lead to that initial point of the current President of the Government himself who said that initiatives should be presented, that they should be pro-active, that there was a political problem, in search of solutions, including in his case the constitutional reform. Therefore, I do not rule out any elements. I insist, I believe, that your vote here today and now is not going to contribute much and more than it is likely to be rejected in a majority, which I do not think is positive either because, I insist, this will be an element that can sooner or later be an important instrument in the search for solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much. And of course, I said it at the beginning and I repeat it again, we will always vote on this question in favour of the right of self-determination for the people of Catalonia, as we want it for the Basque people.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u194	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u195	Thank you, President. In the first order of the day that is formed in this House after the Catalan elections, what is the first problem for the Catalans for Esquerra? Is Esquerra here a proposal to deal with the thousands of deaths in Catalonia? Is there anything left to improve vaccination in Catalonia or to avoid corporate bankruptcy? No, no, What is the first thing that Esquerra asks on the agenda for the first plenary session after the elections in Catalonia? The pardon or amnesty of the president of Esquerra Republicana, that is the program of Esquerra for all Catalans. They also bring the right to secession, that euphemism of stealing from all the Spaniards a piece of their country and isolating the Catalans in a smaller country which, moreover, would be dominated by a political class of authoritarian and corrupt or very corrupt court and which prioritises their personal interests to the generals, as we are seeing here today. The nature of a party is known for its actions in the past. Esquerra is clear from the beginning, very clear from her birth, about her feelings towards Spain and the other Spaniards. Many times I have ascended to this rostrum to narrate what Catalan secessionism has done in the past. They know that. Obviously, I am going to address the Government, because Esquerra is going to the Government, and I am going to address the socialist part of the Government, because we already know that Podemos is independent, nationalist, secessionist and whatever it takes. For Iglesias, too, Puigdemont is comparable to Antonio Machado. Well, I'm not gonna waste any more time talking about them in this sense, because I want the Socialist Party to listen to me. You claim your story with your lights and shadows, a very long story, with correct and mistakes, with good things for Spain and with bad things - or less good - for Spain. You claim the Second Republic and socialist political leaders of the PSOE and leftists of other parties. I've seen them come up here screaming Indalecio Prieto very loud. Have you read what Indalecio Prieto said about the Republican Left and its president? Have you read what Largo Knight said - who also shouted very loudly here - about them? Have you read it? Have you read what Negrin said about these gentlemen here, or are they just shouting their names? Because it is also historical memory to read these gentlemen, to learn from them and to act as a result of those readings. 'Companys is crazy, but crazy to lock up in a madhouse,' Indalecio Prieto. Read more, read Los Diarios de Azaña, which also quote a lot. Today Mr Rufián has said that this goes from fascism and anti-fascism, in a trivialization of what fascism is. I'm not suspected of sympathizing with VOX, but they don't channel fascism. Does Miquel Badia ring a bell? The only contacts with fascism in the world, apart from Franco obviously, during the Civil War in Catalonia were contacts of Catalan secessionism. The only contacts with Mussolini's Italy were by Miquel Badia, founder of the Catalá State. And I wouldn't tell you here today - because I know you wouldn't or some of you wouldn't - if we hadn't had the Youth of Republican Left just recently celebrating the figure of this guy, who went to negotiate with Mussolini the sale of Catalonia to Italian fascism. Do you know what the problem behind all this is? Do you know why we got here? Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you carry Spain. This Spanish anomaly that the left could be nationalist, when nationalism in most countries is right, is due to the idea that the Socialist Party of Spain mainly has. Gentlemen of the PSOE, there is nothing more social, I have told you a thousand times, that it is a country, nothing. Are you going to pardon them? Are you going to give priority to those who have wanted to break this community of rights and freedoms that is Spain? Lords of the Socialist Party, more prepared socialists than you could not tame nationalism, do not believe that you can do so. There is another option, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, there are other parties with which they can negotiate the future of Spain. All I'm worried about is that you know all this I've told you and that you're really kicking the can while you're in the Moncloa. But tell the truth, don't talk about getting anything back because, if you keep this up, we'll all lose here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u196	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u197	Thank you, President. Before we begin, all support for Pablo Hasel. In fact, we are in a country where you can end up in prison or exile if you criticize the police or the monarchy, if you make a referendum or allow a parliamentary debate, but instead, you can go unpunished or even become the third force of the Congress of Deputies if you burn a president's doll in the town square, if you threaten 26 million people with death or if you exalt fascism. And for this you are most responsible because comparing, as the President of the Kingdom of Spain did this morning, to the Catalan independence forces of the Government with these fascists, is to whiten these fascists. So put your batteries on a little bit, do something more than tweets because they're in government. And I'll start. This Sunday in Catalonia, and our colleagues in Esquerra and the CUP have said, not only has independence been won again, but it has been strengthened and exceeded 50% of the vote. Unionism, on the other hand, as the partner of the CUP said, has not only fallen, but has been radicalised towards the far right, more than 50% of the inhabitants of Catalonia have voted in favour of a Catalonia State, they have voted in favour of rethinking our future, changing it, offering new and better opportunities for all the inhabitants and workers of Catalonia. They have voted in favour of overcoming the crisis in which we are immersed and doing so with the tools available to the States of Europe of the twenty-first century, which are very different from those used by the Government of Spain, dragging everyone into an even harsher economic crisis than it is in other countries of Europe. And I'm going straight to the point. The question is clear: Do you want the most progressive government in history to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and Spain or not? If the answer is yes, then today the most progressive government in history, PSOE, PSC, Podemos and Comunas will vote yes to the motion presented by the companies of Esquerra, a referendum that is also supported by 80% of the citizens of Catalonia. If you do not want to resolve the conflict, if you want to continue to cover up and ignore it, then you will not vote yes to this motion. And if you do not vote yes, then it will be you who are responsible for the broad track being the dead track. I really hope to be wrong, but to date this Government has had no real intention of resolving the conflict with Catalonia. Yesterday Jaume Asens said that it did not seem serious to him that this motion is presented today. So, Mr. Asens, when do you think this is the best time to resolve the dispute between Catalonia and Spain? Because I remind you that political prisoners and exiles have been in prison and exile for three years, and there are over 3,000 reprisals. I'm telling you because you're in the government. We ask you to stop trading with all this, to be useful and to act at once. We warn you that we are not here to go on motions every week ad aeternum asking for a dialogue that does not arrive. The theory is very nice until the practice arrives and the first response of the State to the roundabout and new independence victory has been to resort to the third degree of political prisoners. And the prosecution has done it, which I remind you is headed by the former Minister of Social Justice. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] I'm done, President. This Sunday was more than endorsed the way to plant face, the way unchecked, the way that the pants ended up falling before those who have decided that the territorial unity of the Kingdom of Spain is much more important than the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia. With the technical tie, the message is also clear. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Together we will continue to look forward to hearing the proposal and the response of our colleagues to the clear mandate of the people of Catalonia. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u198	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u199	President, ladies and gentlemen, to the spokesman for Citizens, Mr Díaz, I will tell you that I have seen you a little lost in the history of Catalonia. I think you've been a little stunned after the rapapolvo that the Vice-President of the Government, Pablo Iglesias, threw at you this morning. Just one thing. Do not put Antonio Machado in your mouths, because I still have the memory of you leaving the Catalan Parliament because you did not want to condemn Francoism. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, I thought that today we were coming to discuss a motion on the referendum and had prepared some notes for me, but it turns out that no, that we are still in the campaign and that you have come today to criticize us. Mr. Rufián, anti-repressive lessons, none, because I remind you that your Government, the Government of the Generalitat, continues to exercise the charge and continues to call for prison sentences for the independenceists detained by the Mossos in protest demonstrations. Yeah, yeah, 20. It is denounced by Iridia and many other human rights associations. You are the best on Twitter - particularly you, Mr. Rufián - but in an anti-repressive struggle when you are thirty years old behind your back you will already come to tell us stories. Then I will remind you that you in Parliament wanted to send the 15M to jail when you did not object to the appeal against acquittal - yes, Mr Rufián, just like you were not yet in Republican Left, but that is so - and that you have been ruling with those who have called us coups, which is what Mr Torra said. Therefore, anti-repressive lessons from you, none. And they tell us about Hasel. What have you done for Hasel? What has the Generalitat done? Yesterday we saw the charges of the Mossos d ́Esquadra and there are two people wounded by foam bullets. Don't teach us any lessons. What have you done for Hasel? When we learned of the sentence, the first thing we did was make a legislative proposal and yesterday we said that we would submit a request for pardon. Why didn't you do something like that? They could have done it. The tweets are yours and the demagogy is yours too. Because you come here to confuse what is of the state and what is of the government. Learn a little more from your colleagues and our colleagues in Bildu, who are very clear about what the State is and what the Government is and how the State works, especially you who aspire to build a State and to independence from Spain. I think that before independence from Spain they should be independent of Junts per Catalunya. I've seen you very upset with Mr. Canadell, but I asked you: will you make sure you won't make Mr. Canadell president if Mrs. Laura Borràs is disqualified, convicted of corruption? Are you going to rule with those who call us settlers? The truth is that I would like to know this answer because I believe that today, with his intervention, criticizing us for the subject of Hasel precisely and for the anti-repressive struggle, they are marking a path. I believe that the way to the ballot box, following the verdict of the elections, is clear. There's a clear majority of lefts... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u200	Your Honor, one second, please. I pray, please, silence while the spokesman intervenes because there is enough noise. Please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u201	I find you very indignant, but you have outraged me first. I had here an extended hand speech to you, because that is the idea - I think the mandate of the ballot boxes has been clear, we have to understand the left forces - but you here today are marking your priorities, criticizing those who treat us as settlers but then it seems that you do not want to distance yourself from them. Mrs Nogueras, I think that before we go to the polls - we agree on that, that we must go to the polls to resolve the democratic anomaly that Catalonia has been living since the Catalans went to vote and the Constitutional Court, controlled by the People's Party with a president with the card of the People's Party and with the expired mandate, broke the territorial constitution - will have to go to the table of dialogue. I think there is no alternative to that, either it is negotiated or it is negotiated. And, frankly, I think Catalonia has clearly supported both the choice of dialogue and the social exit to the crisis, which some sometimes want to counter or separate and which the ballot boxes have shown to go together. Let us make a left-wing government, clearly committed to dialogue and seize this historic opportunity. We have the votes, we have the tool, which is the dialogue table. Now it is not enough for politics to be useful again and, therefore, it is the moment of politics in upper case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u202	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Betoret Coll.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. After this couple fight, let's try to focus on the subject that Mr Rufián and Mr Esquerra were bringing today for debate in this Chamber. Mr. Rufián, of everything you say in the motion that brings to debate today, I can only share and agree on that part where it says: Catalonia lives the most complex period of recent history. So far, I repeat, so far, because the rest of what you say is simply false. This complex situation, far from having its origin in the cinematographic script that you have written and that you systematically repeat, has its beginning in the adoption by Parliament of an agreement for the holding of the illegal referendum, against the opinion of the lawyers of the House and disregarding all the warnings made to them at that time. To this fact followed the dream of the creation of a Catalan republic and, as a result of that dream, which you used as a road map, a series of unfortunate events took place that caused Catalonia that we all knew to be currently broken and ruined socially and economically. Yes, Mr Rufián, you and the rest of the independenceists have transformed modern Catalonia, which was at the forefront of culture, economic and social, into a genuine heritage. I'm going to give you some data, though it gives me the feeling that you and your colleagues are going to give the same thing. About 6,000 companies have left Catalonia since 2017. Since that same year, Catalonia has grown less than the national average and 30% less than Madrid. In 2019, Catalonia's GDP grew by 1.8%, while Madrid's grew by 2.5%. To this must be added the social breakdown, which has meant that families and friends stop talking for political reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, politics has never done so much harm to society. At this point, I wonder: this from the referendum, the republic and all this serial that you have assembled, has it not been to hide the economic chaos, the disaster in management, the waste and the ruin that independence has brought to Catalonia? If you were honest with the Catalans, I would simply admit that they have betrayed Catalonia for a dream, although I am convinced that you are not going to do so. You also raise in your motion something that you say does not pose a threat to coexistence. Are you seriously telling us this, as if everything we have seen in Catalonia had never happened, neither the carnals nor the social confrontation? You are the hand that wiggles the cradle of radicality. They propose something that is illegal, it was in 2017 and remains so now. They speak of the right of self-determination of peoples, which is a basic principle of international law created with a clear objective, to allow the process of decolonization - here is the key - of peoples under the control of a foreign power. It is obvious that Catalonia is not a Spanish colony. Catalonia, although it bothers you, is Spain and all of you are Spanish, even if it weighs you. [[applause]] But this must be combined with reasons of constitutional legality. Article 1 says that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state governed by law, and it is therefore illegal to propose a referendum by a party for that party to vote exclusively to separate itself. If we add to this article 2, which speaks of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, in relation to article 9.1, which enshrines the principle of constitutionality, we can only conclude that, again, this is a manifest illegality. You are again lacking in the truth when you speak of a democratic and peaceful solution to the political conflict, and I say that you are lacking in the truth because there is no political conflict; what exists is a group of people in Catalonia who claim something that is illegal, and that cannot be linked to the concept of conflict, but rather to the concept of crime. For this reason, it can only be concluded that you live in a huge lie, which has a huge social and economic cost to all Spaniards. In conclusion, I will tell you that you, the independenceists, are primarily responsible for what is lived in Catalonia, but you are not the only ones. The other responsible for what is happening in Catalonia is the Government, which is constantly giving way to independence: the dialogue table, the amnesty of imprisoned politicians, the proposal to decriminalize the rebellion, the reduction of sedition penalties and the exclusion of Spanish as a vehicle language in the education of the children of Catalonia. And they are responsible for giving the word that, again, peaceful coexistence in Catalonia is broken and Spain's credit is damaged internationally.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u204	Mr. Betoret, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u205	I'm done. That is a massive irresponsibility and even more so being in the government; a irresponsibility that, without any doubt and unfortunately, we will pay all the Spaniards, especially those who are in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u206	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u207	First of all, Mr. Díaz, when you speak of Indalecio Prieto and Largo Caballero and you speak of memory, we do not forget that you want to erase your names from the streets of Madrid, that you have erased your monuments and that you want to erase the plaques in memory of the victims of Francoism. [[Applauds]] We do not forget; you want to erase your memory and your words. The truth is, when I saw the motion, I thought we were gonna talk about it. I have listened to Mr. Rufián and he has not spoken of the motion he presented; I imagine he takes it for granted. And he's been talking about the elections, which I think is what he's worried about. So, I had prepared an intervention that was: Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, no. And here I would finish my intervention. Because two weeks ago - remember - here we discussed, agreed and approved to reconvene the dialogue table that we had agreed unconditionally. I remind you, we agreed to a dialogue table without conditions. And Esquerra the first thing he does, after these elections, is to put a condition that is contrary to what he defends in the explanatory statement of his motion, which I will read to him, that of two weeks ago - it has not been so long, two weeks!-: The Republican Parliamentary Group considers that both amnesty and the right of self-determination should not be proposed by a parliamentary group in a motion in the Congress of Deputies. Two weeks and they go and propose it! What's going on? Is that change of position a consequence of Columbus's photo of independence? Was that the condition they were given to sign that document? Look, work for the reunion; do not seek confrontation; they will find us in dialogue, which is what we want to do. What's more, I say to you, how Salvador Illa committed himself to bringing together the table between Catalans and the table of dialogue in the central government for the reunion, in Catalonia and Spain! If dialogue is the only solution to the problem! Do not put conditions in the dialogue. Why do they change positions? This campaign, for you, I think it has been difficult; as difficult as recognizing that Salvador Illa won the elections. In the end, he acknowledged it in his speech. He says: he won the elections, like Mrs. Arrimadas, and then he will go to the opposition. Look at you, it's so hard to say: congratulations, you've won, but we're going to seek agreement between political forces so that your victory doesn't come to a good place? Simple. And for that, we've seen, you've come here, you take the votes of Juntas, of Communal and of the CUP, when you still don't have agreements. Look, they've taken less votes than we have. It's okay, it's democracy, it was already remembered the other day; for that, the citizens vote. Unfortunately, they have voted less than at other times; perhaps because they are less concerned about the situation in Catalonia, because they believe that things are on the right track. That's why people are not so scared anymore and mobilize less. But, look, I'll tell you very clearly. We, sanitary cords against socialists know many, where we win. It began with the photo of Columbus of the PP, Citizens and VOX in Madrid, in Andalusia, and it has continued, from what I see, and now you announce the photo of Columbus of independence in Catalonia, where we have also been the most voted force. Lords of Esquerra, do not make the mistake of ruling with the right; do not make it. Look at what you're telling them. You've been ruling with the right for ten years, don't make that mistake, because the xenophobics have them in Spanish and Catalan; there are them everywhere. Gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, I will tell you one thing very clearly: Don't you realize that pacting with VOX for power crumbs feeds the monster that will eventually devour you? There were two paths with VOX, Merkel's and the easy one. You, as always, took the easy, the path of perdition. Merkel's was to give up legitimizing the far right, a long but useful way for your country; but you have preferred the short, and that is bad for Spain. Abandon the path of perdition, repent of your sins and rectify, you are still in time. Mr. Married said: That PP doesn't exist. That way there will be neither that PP, nor that PP, nor any PP. You're wrong, you'll be devoured by VOX. Mrs. Arrimadas, they betrayed the Catalans and the Catalans. They asked for the vote, they got it, they took it and they left, and they used those votes borrowed to agree with VOX and PP. Today the Catalans have regained their votes and given them to us because they endorse the policy of dialogue proposed by the Socialist Party. In these elections the non-independence Catalans have given their support to the path that marks Pedro Sánchez, which is dialogue, which is understanding, which is the search for agreement, which is to seek solutions to problems, not to make them bigger, which is what you have been doing during this time. Dealing with the devil, gentlemen of the PP, is selling your soul to the devil and changing democratic principles in the government is denying your past, like headless chickens. Really, rectify.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u208	Mr. Zaragoza must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u209	Correct, that mistake is bad for Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u210	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u211	Hum! No, no, [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u212	Okay. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, MR MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA, ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CORONAVIRUS COVID-19 VACUNATION CAMPAIN TO TRY TO IMMUNICATE THE SPANISH POPULATION IN THE LESS POSSIBLE TIME AND FRENCH THE SECOND TRAGICS OF THE ACCOUNT. [[File number 173/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u213	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the development of the vaccination campaign for the coronavirus VOC-19 in order to try to immunize the Spanish population in the shortest possible time and to stop the tragic consequences of the infection. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the control session of the last plenary session of the Congress, I had the opportunity to ask the new Minister of Health, Ms.Darias San Sebastián, about a matter of priority and absolute emergency for Spain, as is also the case for the rest of the world, the immunization of the population against COVID-19. Once the European Union received the first vials from several pharmaceutical laboratories and distributed them to the 27 member countries, vaccination began in Spain at the end of December, eight weeks ago. The objective of the campaign is to achieve group immunity to curb the aggressive contagion that since the beginning of 2020 has caused and continues to cause so many deaths, pain and suffering, and that has also disrupted the normality of our daily activities, including the economic slowdown that endangers or has already destroyed the livelihood of millions of Spanish families. [[Rumors]] It is enough to point out that, although the president of the government, irresponsiblely, gave up the virus last June, we continue to suffer the terrible consequences of a second and a third wave of contagion with a very high lethality that has the ICUs under great pressure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u216	Also, very aggressive viral variants are spreading that scientists, to whom we recognize their dedication, are also trying to investigate to find remedies through a new generation of vaccines designed to better control coronavirus mutations. In the interpellation I asked Mrs. Darias that her ministry will lead a national vaccination plan, and that is what she urged in this motion. Ladies and gentlemen, since there is a complete coincidence in dealing with this counterclockwise career in order to move as quickly as possible towards the goal of immunising 70% of Spaniards, I think it is appropriate that the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, should exercise the leadership, design and implementation of this national plan, which should be a point of union in pursuit of the public health objective that we need to achieve as soon as possible. In my motion I also called for monitoring, through a committee of experts, the implementation of that national plan and, in the event of incidents, deviations, errors and delays in the pharmaceutical supply or different immunization needs in the face of new variants and viral mutations, making any adjustments to the vaccination schedule that we need to make in Spain. The campaign offers doubts, even here, in Congress. Yesterday, with the support of the Socialist Group and the United Nations Podemos, the first step was taken to establish a committee of inquiry into the vaccination campaign against COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for an inquiry does not seem to be overstated either when yesterday the Council of Ministers also approved the additional purchase of twenty-one million additional doses of the vaccine manufactured by the Pfizer-BioNTECH consortium in the face of the setbacks of other pharmaceutical laboratories. In this respect, the problems in the supply of vaccines, the main bottleneck, are known, as the President of the European Commission herself, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, has explained in recent days, recognizing the Community's mistakes and the excessive optimism about the production of vaccines, which leaves a question mark on the behaviour of some pharmaceutical companies that have not fulfilled their delivery commitments, despite the enormous financial effort made by the European Union in its successful strategy of centralised international purchasing, to which Spain joined in June. There are also initial limitations in the administration of certain risk groups defined in the early stages of the vaccination campaign, both because they are very vulnerable and because they belong to essential health and social health sectors, so that the quality of care in the treatment of the sick does not fall. It will also be necessary to adjust the administration of certain vaccines to the age ranges for which they are intended and which are not the result of possible side effects or contraindications, but that clinical trials have been conducted in people of a given age group. In any case, vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency are absolutely reliable. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the updated data provided through the website of the National Strategy for Vaccination COVID-19 in Spain, today, within stage 1, which is due to end this month, 1097 000 people are already vaccinated, that is, for the next stages the rate of vaccination will have to be multiplied, and for a great many, in order to reach the target of 28 million Spaniards over sixteen years at the end of September, that is, in seven and a half months, an extra period of eleven weeks to which President Sánchez himself announced publicly, in another irresponsible propaganda exercise. I urge, in any case, that the implementation of this national vaccination plan, its possible incidences and changes in the vaccination schedule of dose administration, as well as new immunization needs in relation to aggressive variants, should be monitored by a committee of well-known and recognized experts. Also in the light of transparency, a subject unknown to this Government, should be added those proposed by each of the parliamentary groups to participate in the meetings of the committee and be able to present their professional approach and also have access to as much information and data as they require on the development of the national vaccination plan. I conclude, Mr President, by thanking the three parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments to this motion and its spokesmen, because they improve and refine the final objective of this initiative to guide the Government on a vital issue - I stress it, vital - for all Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u217	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Díaz Gómez is speaking by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u218	Thank you, President. This good motion as a result of urgent questioning by the good Member Martínez Oblanca will count on our support. In addition, we have come to a compromise that I believe is very constructive and incorporates some of the measures that Citizens have proposed. But I wanted to reflect on the vaccination plan with a story I met a few days ago. It is a family of Malaga - where I am from -, a wonderful family of those who are happy to know that they exist; the parents, Rafa and Toñi; the children, Sonia and Antonio, very confreres, and Sonia has Down syndrome. Like many people with Down, Sonia has a heart condition that makes her particularly vulnerable to COVID-19. Their parents, if they can, are not going to work, and if there is no other remedy, they do so with extreme caution. Just like your brother and school attendance, they try to avoid as much as possible contact with anyone. By the way, how important are brothers in families where there is a person with Down syndrome. In short, a family that has practically paralysed all its activity at the high risk of one of its members becoming very seriously ill if infected with coronavirus. They still don't know when Sonia is going to be vaccinated and the days go by and the situation gets worse. This is the first thing I want to say here, that despite all the rumor and pomp that was given to the national vaccination plan, there was no advertising. I recognize - it is good to recognize the good things - that we are vaccinated better than other countries, but much worse than other countries that are doing very well. It is not enough to say: in this we are not the last; this time it is not enough. We find it increasingly difficult to meet this target of 70% of the vaccinated population in the summer. I wish you could, but it doesn't seem possible. A very worrying issue in the vaccination plan is the fact that private health personnel are being marginalized. We're listening to some very worrying things. Have Podemos's phobias been rooted and imprisoned in the Ministry of Health to discriminate against private health care providers? Are they at less risk? Are they less sanitary? There are also problems of lack of vaccine supplies, it seems that the European Commission is going to solve them and that the arrival of more vaccines is already imminent. At the door of the arrival of more vaccines, I want to tell you some good things that have been done elsewhere. The example, as in many other things - and I am sorry for some anti-Semitic tern that has sounded these days and that we have heard in the streets, although I think it is better to cover some things; when something smells very bad, in this case it is better to treat the freak as freak - apart from the anti-Semitic pus, we have it in Israel, which is doing an exceptional vaccination campaign and from which we can learn on this occasion. They combined efforts, took this issue as a national security issue from the outset and joined the whole world. It is true that in Spain, for example, there were many problems when it came to relying on the Army to disinfect the streets, because we already know that one of the conditions in Esquerra to support the state of alarm was that the uniforms of the press conferences were withdrawn and in the CUP directly called to cough on the face of the soldiers who disinfected the streets. But let us learn from the Government of Israel, which has generated a great deal of confidence in the population; they trust their Government, they trust to be vaccinated; they have succeeded. Moreover, they have a high level of digitization - there we should have learned too -, they are able to manage the information very well and that all administrations speak the same digital language, not as has happened here. By the way, one very interesting thing, the drive-in vaccination, inside the car. That is an issue that the Government should consider. What do we propose? Let us learn from these measures and, moreover, get wet telling them that we believe that we need to have more collectives. It is necessary to have private health in its entirety, which collaborates with the public at the time of vaccination, with the dentists who have offered to vaccinate, with the pharmacists, with the veterinarians, with some people who, with little training added, are able to vaccinate, also with the Army, which has personnel prepared to vaccinate, and to do so in all kinds of facilities. You have already seen, in governments where Citizens are going to start doing, for example, near here, in the Metropolitan Wanda people will be vaccinated. Let's go that way, 24 hours a day and seven days a week. Don't get carried away by the phobias of your preferred partners. Here they have Citizens, if they want to count on us for it, because we have no phobias but a great family that are the Spaniards. We will support the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u219	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u220	With venial, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A fiasco, a catastrophe, a disaster, thus described the European Union's purchases of vaccines by the MEP and president of the Socialist Group, Mrs Iratxe García; a fiasco, a catastrophe, a disaster. We welcome, contribute and support this initiative of Forum Asturias, because the government's vaccination programme is nothing more than the management of misery, and this misery is due to the European Union's incompetence to negotiate with industry, while Germany is negotiating the manufacture of Sputnik V with Russia. How different Israel!, which it bought massively, advanced in spring and 76% of the population has already received a vaccination. How different Chile!, with massive purchases and taking advantage of its strength position to do clinical trials. What has the government done? Nothing. The Spanish Government failed to convince the European Union that the distribution of vaccines should not be by the population, but also by the severity of the epidemic in each country. And we have bound our destiny, ladies and gentlemen, to countries that do not have the same problem as Spain. A government and a European Union that has been so obscurantist in its negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry that this is the contract with Censored and Spotted AstraZeneca. [[Show a photocopy]] The consequence: Spain is inert, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the epidemic that the Wuhan coronavirus launches to us, with new, more contagious, more virulent variants that generate more disease and kill more, and to top it off the South African variant is resistant to one of the three vaccines available. The government, which is ultimately nothing more than a vaccine carrier, a Delivery, a Globe, an Uber - well, the Glovo thing feels better - presumes that it is vaccinationing, but has nothing to presume because it cannot evaluate the rate of vaccination by giving absolute numbers, not even by the incidence with respect to the number of inhabitants. [[applause]] No, ladies and gentlemen, the rate of vaccination has to be measured by calculating it with a quotient that takes into account in the denominator - I explain to the Lords of Podemos - the severity of the disease, the incidence per million inhabitants and even the new cases per week. [[applause]] The more infectious mass there is, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the more viruses we have in the population, the greater the possibility of mutations. Therefore, there will be more mutations and the virus will win us because there will be more resistance not only to vaccines but to drugs. I think you've understood. [[Applauds]] Up to 16 February, 2624 512 doses have been put in place, representing 51,000 doses per day. To get vaccinated at 70% of the population we need to increase speed by 9.4 times. The Spanish Government has failed and Europe has failed. Therefore - and here is our proposal - Spain has to go to the market to obtain vaccines, vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency. And we have to make all the resources, public and private, available to this vaccination; we have to make all the establishments, all the resources, even the Army, how not, but we also have to have one thing: truthful and transparent information in effectiveness and in adverse effects. How do you do that? With a national registry that takes into account efficacy and adverse effects. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Seneca tells Medea: Cui prodest scelus, is fecit, the one who benefits from the crime, that is the culprit. The slowness of vaccination favors the dictatorial objectives of the Government; on the contrary, speed is the means of liberation of the Spaniards not only from the disease but from the oppression of a government that has us - and, at worst, wants us - prisoners and infected. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u221	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u222	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank Foro Asturias and, specifically, Mr Martínez Oblanca, for the opportunity of this initiative, which allows us to talk about an issue that concerns all Spaniards, such as the COVID vaccine, and also to thank him for having accepted our amendment. Of course, we will vote in favour of the initiative. Many of the Spaniards wonder: when am I going to get vaccinated? Difficult response because Spain does not have a vaccination plan or enough vaccines. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to have a very special memory for the people who are now passing the disease in a hospital, for those who have already passed it - with the multiple consequences of COVID - for the relatives who have not been able to say goodbye to their loved ones and for the healthcare professionals, who are the most infected in Europe, already more than 126 000. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we Spaniards have hope for the vaccine. Science has opened up hope to thousands of people in the world and in Spain. In more than a month and a half we have only one million people with full vaccination, and thanks to the fact that the autonomous communities have had to reorganize their vaccination plan and without the help of the Government. This shows that we have seventeen vaccination plans because the ministry, which has to be at the head of the pandemic, has delegated responsibility to the autonomous communities. We are seeing how the Spanish, depending on where they live, have access to the vaccine without conditions of equity, and this is a consequence of the fact that there is no real vaccination plan. On 9 February, the Ministry of Health again updated the COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy in Spain, which the President of the Government in this House said had been published in the BOE and was a lie. We already have three versions in a month and a half. One of the changes has been to increase vaccination groups, of course not clearly and delegating responsibility to the autonomous communities. We currently have three authorised vaccines, with different efficacy, logistics and population profiles in which they have been tested. And we also have commitments to fulfil with the European Union: to achieve the vaccination of 80% of healthcare professionals, social assistance professionals and over 80 years of age and, of course, to ensure that in the summer we have vaccinated 70% of the population. [[Show a chart]] We're hardly going to get it if we only have a million people immunized and we have to immunize more than 27 million people. At the rate that we are going to take three years to immunize; at the rate that we are going to do neither on March 30 nor in summer. But Minister Illa also told us that in Spain we would have vaccines for everyone. And yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the acquisition of 28.8 million additional doses of Pfizer vaccines. But what is the government hiding from us? Do we have or don't we have vaccines? And then how are the vaccines that we now have updated responding to the new variants that circulate? Do I have to take a dose of memory? We know from clinical studies that the AstraZeneca vaccine does not seem to cover the South African variant well. Ladies and gentlemen, vaccines are the only hope that will enable us to tackle this long pandemic path. In fact, it's the only possible way. We must vaccinate as quickly as possible and continue to control the transmission. This is only possible if we have a single vaccination plan, groups perfectly identified to be vaccinated and a closed schedule. The current reality is sadly another, we have seventeen vaccination plans, despite the fact that the Government in this House has repeatedly denied this reality. Under these circumstances it is necessary to carry out a rigorous check on vaccination in Spain, and what better than this House to carry out that check with the input of real experts. We do not need advertising campaigns from the Government of Sánchez or XXL stickers; we urgently need more doses of vaccines now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u223	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Martínez Oblanca, with regard to your proposal, I have to say that we agree with the concern about the situation in which we are in and that it is an important objective to achieve the majority immunity of the population as soon as possible, but we do not share the path we are proposing. We believe that creating the role of party advisors in a Commission is not the solution. We are still in a situation of extreme gravity, and what we need to think about is to review and strengthen the strategy in the four pillars that we have marked in the fight against COVID: we need to narrow contact with the virus, we need to strengthen and intensify prevention, we need to strengthen the health response, we need to improve social and economic measures to alleviate the fall in economic activity and, of course, we need to redouble efforts for vaccination. It's the great hope, but it's not just worth it, especially for the rhythms we face. That's why we can't trust vaccination. The concern of the population - I agree - is increasing. We have the data from the Cosmo survey made public last week, in which we see that the concern of the population is increasing. With regard to the previous four waves, it is already 67% of the population that is telling us that it is very concerned, very much, about the condition that COVID may have. It is an increase in concern for one's physical and mental health, and concerns about the consequences of confinements are somewhat diminished. It is a logical fear of a situation in which very high incidence figures and very slow rates of vaccination continue to exist. Therefore, what we have to do and I propose to you, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is to put new objectives in the strategies. This stage needs to be addressed by strengthening strategies and equipping these strategic lines with new objectives. I will propose two basic objectives; one is with regard to vaccination. We believe that in order to speed up vaccination we need to use new suppliers. The bottleneck we have in the lack of doses. And especially what we have to achieve is the development of vaccine production capacity in the State. In this negotiation of new doses, we need to build our own production capacity with the aim not only of reaching the population of the State, but also of helping the entire world population to gain access to that vaccination. These vaccine patents must be released, production liberalization agreements must be reached and every means put in place to enable the majority of the population to reach that vaccine. That is why it is important to strengthen and renew the special and urgent plan for the supply and production of vaccines. We should even contemplate the temporary nationalisation of those European pharmaceutical companies that speculate on vaccines and fail to fulfil their commitments, if necessary. With regard to the vaccination plan we have a doubt, why is the vaccination strategy not being respected as planned? Why is vaccination, for example, of police forces being prioritized now when we have half the health force and the population aged over 80 without vaccination, when it was already planned that these groups would be priority targets? If we have a vaccination plan in which we have identified priority groups, let us respect them. As far as secondary prevention is concerned, there is also another objective I think we should look at: the management of descalation. It is important to focus on reducing the rate to a cumulative incidence that makes it possible to track and track cases in order to isolate them. At the moment we cannot allow 400 contagions per 100,000 inhabitants in fourteen days to be thought of already in descalations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u225	You must finish, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u226	With a rate of 100 contagions per 100,000 inhabitants, we could start thinking about descalation and normalization; in the meantime, it is not possible. So what I'm proposing is a change in the objectives of short- and long-term strategies. The strategy cannot consist of doing more of the same, the majority of the population so demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u227	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u228	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and everyone on this journey that is already taking a long time. Mr Martínez Oblanca, a pleasure, this is the first time I will discuss with you from this rostrum, even if it is to tell you, how I will tell you, that our parliamentary group is not going to support the initiative you are proposing. And we are not going to support it because you are asking for a vaccination plan and there is already a strategy, which is also multilevel and in which different institutional areas are collaborating. There is a European strategy, there is a state strategy and there are vaccination plans and a strategy at sub-state level in the autonomous communities, which are also implementing multi-level governance strategies. This is the first time that a comprehensive unified strategy has been proposed at European level. If a year ago we had been told that this was going to be the case, we would have said that it was unthinkable that all the States of the European Union would agree to make a centralized purchase, to negotiate vaccines with one voice, to be able to invest huge amounts of money in research, and to ensure that what was done under normal conditions in ten years could be done in a single year. We would have valued it as an almost unthinkable success. Does that mean we have no worries? At all, there are problems and concerns. That global strategy has been moved to a state strategy to which you have referred. Here it has been said that it does not have to be updated and you ask in your motion to update it. At the same time, however, we have heard spokespersons criticizing the third update. We consider a virtue that, in an absolutely changing and dynamic situation, has to be continuously updated because it is incorporated into new priority groups, because the vaccine portfolio is being updated. From the global we go to a local plan, where there are precise actions and each autonomous community has human resources, an organization of its health system, and adapts that strategy at its local level. [[The lady]] We have a great challenge and it is the immunity to which we have all referred, to reach at least that 70% immunization in order to achieve the immunity of the flock. We have a concern about the new strains and the mutations that are emerging. We have hope, progress in the vaccination campaign. We have a problem that is the shortage of vaccines. We have a concern about the breach of contracts. We have seen that contracts have more tarnished parts, more dark parts than clear ones and that they can be seen. We must continue to work with three fundamental lines of work: one from Brussels, which has exercised that command in order to be able to make a collective negotiation of Europe. We do not believe that the European Union has failed; as I said at first, if we were to be told a year ago where we would be able to work together, we would not have believed it. Now one of the lines is that from Brussels there is pressure to actually deliver all the doses of the vaccines that were contracted and can be hired more. The second line of intervention is that industrial tissue has to be boosted so that the production of vaccines is increased and we can access more doses. And the third line is to continue enhancing research with antivirals, more vaccines, more treatments. We have to keep working on that line. I've got 30 seconds left and I'd like to talk about attitude. I believe that first of all, in the face of a campaign of an extraordinary dimension that perhaps in future must also be faced, in the face of an aggressive pandemic that we had never known, there are three keys to being able to work with a positive and proactive attitude. We have to work, of course, with unity, which does not mean that it is with one command; we have to work with institutional loyalty; we have to work collaboratively.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u229	Mrs. Gorospe, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u230	Yeah, I'm done. And to collaborate is not to impose, to have the form of command unique or of order and command. Collaborating is based on the principle of reciprocity in order to share experiences and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u231	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u232	Thank you, Madam President. The problem of vaccination in the Spanish State is obvious. Current data indicate that only one million people - i.e. just over 2% of the population - have already received the two doses of the vaccine. The bill is easy: at this rate, the Spanish State would take six years to vaccinate the entire population. Attention, not six months, as envisaged by the Government, but six years. This is absolutely unacceptable. The repeated announcements that difficulties will be overcome and that cruise speed will soon be reached are never verified. On the contrary, every week we find new information on the delay in the delivery of doses of vaccines that slow down the vaccination process. The dramatic thing is that, in the meantime, as a result of the inefficiency of public administrations, we continue to lose human lives. That is why the proposal to draw up a vaccination plan seems to us not to solve the problem. For starters, were there no vaccination plans so far? We want to assume so. The competent administrations had months to anticipate and prepare this moment so that the immunization of the population would be done quickly and effectively. Unfortunately, it's not like that. That is why, beyond something fundamental such as strengthening the public health system with the incorporation of all the necessary personnel and means, we understand that what is needed is a radical shift in the policy of the Spanish State in the acquisition of vaccines and amending the error they made from the beginning by following up the European Union and limiting the acquisition of large pharmaceutical companies of what we can call NATO space. Already in September, at a time when the World Health Organization indicated that six vaccines were in phase III, the BNG warned, through a parliamentary initiative, of the error of placing all the eggs in the same basket and we proposed to diversify, by contacting other laboratories to carry out tests of their vaccines in the Spanish State and thus to have first-hand direct data on their effectiveness and safety, because of these six vaccines the Spanish State had only negotiated through the European Union three: that of Pfizer, that of Moderna and that of AstraZeneca. The other three were Chinese, but since August another vaccine, Russian Sputnik V, had been tested. None of them had been interested either in the EU or in the Spanish State, and the question is why? The BNG then denounced that, in addition to the health interest, there were other less humanitarian factors behind the search and purchase of vaccines. On the one hand, the economic interests of large laboratories and, on the other, geostrategic decisions of States, which turned this race into a kind of new cold war in which world prestige and hegemony in science and research are at stake. But, in the opinion of the BNG, it is a irresponsibility, a huge historical irresponsibility that countries with the most resources on the planet compete instead of cooperating to find a global solution to a global problem. It is clear that in the face of a pandemic that has already cost 2.5 million people on the planet — 66 000 of them in the Spanish State — the search for and acquisition of vaccines cannot be approached from a purely economic or much less geopolitical perspective, but must be done from a health and humanitarian perspective. It is not acceptable, either politically or morally, that certain economic and/or geostrategic interests can weigh more than the lives of tens of thousands of people. What we need are effective, safe and readily available vaccines. The country of origin is absolutely secondary. That is why in January, and already in view of the fact that we were right, we again presented an initiative in the same direction. We were right because we were also able to see how the major pharmaceutical companies in which the European Union relied were engaged in speculating and doing business with people's health and lives, failing to comply with the contracts signed, selling their production to the highest bidder. Fortunately, it seems that both the EU and the Spanish state, given the evidence of the failure of their strategy, are now opening up to explore new initiatives such as the Sputnik V. It would be good if, with all the appropriate scientific controls, with the approval of the European Medicines Agency, they would not delay further because we are talking about saving human lives. By the way - it has ended -, this crisis has evidenced issues such as the need to have public pharmaceuticals but also, and above all, has evidenced the inability of the capitalist system to manage effectively and socially and emergency criteria...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u233	Mr. Rego, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u234	Finished. ... in which even in extreme situations the great interests of pharmaceuticals prevail. In that regard, the Spanish Government should explain why it had voted against the release of patents on vaccines, which would make it possible to apply them throughout the world more effectively and easily. I think...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u235	Thank you, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a vaccination plan, it is the National Immunization Strategy. Changing the word strategy by plan doesn't solve anything. I also do not think that appointing advisers on the part of political parties can do anything. The National Strategy for Vaccination against VOCID-19 has been and is a priority of the Ministry of Health of this Government. It aims to reduce morbidity and mortality by COVID-19. It is a country-wide strategy and is governed by an ethical framework that includes the principle of equity, with a technical basis that takes into account the European framework. It's in a public document that everyone can read. It is a dynamic strategy - of course it is dynamic - a changing reality and, as a result, it has to adapt continuously. But having a vaccination strategy does not prevent problems. As vaccines arrive, there is enormous care pressure in primary care and in hospital care. Mr Martínez Oblanca always follows, respects and admires the People's Party's policy, but the People's Party's health policy of cuts is responsible for the health pressure we are suffering right now. The pandemic has taken us very weak because of the policies of the right, which are your policies, yours. [[Applauds]] Vaccination strategies must be combined, and that is essential in any vaccination strategy, with preventive measures such as masking, social distance and the different degrees of restriction carried out by the autonomous communities. The strategy adapts to a changing reality. But the strategy cannot foresee everything. How do you think a mayor or some health director who's not on the front line, even a bishop, is going to skip the shift? Let's see who can establish that. The development of vaccines is a great achievement that has been achieved thanks to the tenacity of the scientific community, but we all own scientific thought. Scientific thinking is a public good, but it seems that at the moment it is kidnapped by the pharmaceutical industry, and that is dangerous; it must make us think. Mr Martínez, the speed with which the virus has been found is not something unthinkable, as you say in the document, but something logical. Basic research on vaccines has been well developed for many years. If vaccines are not developed and created in their final model, it is because the pharmaceutical industry is not profitable. The pandemic has now forced industry to develop several vaccines against COVID, but the production of vaccines is mainly financed by public money. The pharmaceutical industry is always financed by public money, either with the direct help of the States or implicitly through early purchase and many other formulas. Despite State assistance, vaccines are reaching a lower rate than expected. We have a public health system capable of vaccination very efficiently, but we do not have all the vaccines we need right now. This slow rate of vaccine production is directly related to the business model behind vaccines, in which the company that holds the patent controls production and distribution, speculating with them. How are these problems solved? They are not solved by creating a committee of experts appointed by the party. They are solved by releasing patents. They are solved by creating a public drug production company that frees us from the slavery of private companies that produce according to profit criteria. It is normal for such companies to function like this, because companies owe themselves to their shareholders, that is their essence. They are resolved by assuming that the pandemic is a global problem that requires global collaboration, effectiveness, cooperation, solidarity and equity. There are two projects in the European Union that advocate the release of patents, such as the right to a cure and the request of Doctors Without Borders. Will the European Union support these projects? Is the European right going to approve these projects? I'm telling you, no. Conclusion. We have a vaccination plan...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u237	You have to finish, Mrs. Medel.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u238	Yeah. I wanted to name the State of Israel, because it has been said here that it has worked very well. I don't know if you've read the Israeli minister's statements. It's a real shame. The one who pays the most takes the vaccines - that's what he said - and he also said: let's buy a few more for the Palestinians. That's, like, the phrase that comes in the press. To take it as a model, I think it's a little strong.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u239	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u240	We shall vote not on the motion, because what it proposes is either being implemented or contributing nothing to the current situation. The fundamental problem is not the vaccination strategy...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u241	You have to finish, Mrs. Medel.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u242	...is the lukewarmness of the States... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u243	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u244	Mr Steegmann, do not misunderstand the words of my colleague Iratxe García - whom, by the way, I thank you for quoting -. With the necessary criticisms, but with a constructive spirit and with institutional loyalty. Those are his words; learn from them. [[Applauds]] Welcome, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the concerns of the Spanish Government; you are late, but at least you are. I say this because the National Immunization Strategy was adopted at the Interterritorial Council in November last year and has been updated on three occasions. It is a living document; you have it here and you have it on the ministry website. [[Mr Martínez Oblanca shows a document]] The vaccination strategy is one of the priorities of the Government of Spain to contain the pandemic, because vaccines save lives. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I do not want to tell you with this that you have not read it, but perhaps you have paid little attention. Your Honor, I have read your motion with great interest, and the truth is that I see some misinformation in it, which I will try to clarify throughout my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go into detail, I would like to remind all the people killed by COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time in the management of the pandemic. Although the cumulative incidence has decreased, the figures are still high. Therefore, today, our best weapon to contain the pandemic, in addition to the restriction of mobility in the current terms, is vaccination. Spain is one of the countries where it is most vaccinated, and we will reach 70% vaccination by the end of the summer. According to the latest report, there are 2914,755 doses distributed among the autonomous communities. A total of 2624,512 people in the first doses have already been vaccinated and more than 1 million people have been vaccinated on a full schedule, i.e. almost 42% of the doses received; it is more than 1 million people. Vaccination - as you know - began on 27 December in Spain and throughout Europe, and in Asturias, its autonomous community, the percentage of people vaccinated is headed. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months earlier Spain had joined the European Vaccination Strategy, which guarantees equitable access, addressing a joint purchase and achieving more favourable purchase prices. Access to the vaccine is a right that has all the citizenship and, therefore, the Government of Spain works tirelessly and approved yesterday - as some of you mentioned - to acquire 20.8 million vaccines from Fisher Biotec. Stop using vaccination to confront. By the way, they are vaccines that are bought with the 1000 million euros item recorded in the General Budgets of the State, to which you voted not; but also voted not the PP, also voted not VOX, Citizens and also voted not the BNG. Faced with this useless opposition to Spain, the Government has assumed its responsibility and is guaranteeing that citizens can have access to safe and free vaccines. Because we must not hide our commitment to universal and free public health, at the time of its use, in order to ensure equity, and this is possible thanks to the policies of different socialist governments. Mr Martínez Oblanca, for several months now the meetings between the Spanish Medicines Agency, the Ministry and the European Union have been constant so that the autonomous communities would be prepared for vaccination. You should know that with the aim of implementing the National Strategy for Vaccination COVID-19 in Spain and coordinating the administration of vaccines, a group for the comprehensive management of COVID vaccination was set up several months ago. This group is coordinated by the Ministry of Health and the General Secretariat of Digital Health, it is composed of the technicians of the department, the Spanish Medicines Agency and the coordinators of the autonomous communities. They have already held more than sixty meetings and this whole process was launched in an increasingly effective way, despite its complexity and the urgency of the times we manage, and this is an example of how co-governance works. I'm finishing up. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I have to say that we are constantly working with experts in all areas with the Autonomous Communities, both for the elaboration and for the continuous improvement and updating of the strategy in all the necessary aspects, including those in which you propose, if the Committee on Public Health considers this to be the case. Within the framework of the vaccine presentation, which is made up of experts from the autonomous communities, experts from the ministry, a working group was set up consisting of vaccine specialists and specialists and experts from different fields. In addition, once this development began, there was integration between that working group and the submission of vaccines. Similarly, the presence in the Public Health Commission of those responsible for vaccination in each of the autonomous communities was facilitated, thus ensuring the highest level of consensus. In short, the vaccination model in Spain is ethical, technical, scientific and consensual, and therefore our vote will be no, but I ask you to tie your shoulder, to work, to make a useful and loyal opposition to Spain and to stop using this pandemic to confront. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u245	Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u246	Madam President, on the basis of the approaches of the three amending groups, a compromise amendment has been drafted which I shall immediately send to the Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u247	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Government can explain the steps it is taking to resolve THE FINANCING PROBLEM - CURRENT AND FUTURE - OF THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES. [[File number 173/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u248	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain the steps it is taking to resolve the current and future financing problem of the autonomous communities. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u249	Thank you, President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to pay a brief but heartfelt tribute to the memory of Fernando Rebanal, teacher, friend, partner of the People's Party in Redondela and, above all, a good man without whose advice and encouragement I may not be here today. [[Applauds]] Rest in peace, Fernando; we will miss you very much. Once again, we bring to the plenary of this House an initiative that urges the Government to take the necessary steps to change the current system of autonomous financing, a system of autonomous financing that was approved by Zapatero without consensus and that has expired for six years, and that the current system of autonomous financing is constantly being criticized by the autonomous communities, governs the political colour that governs, because it promotes an unfair distribution of the funds that they receive from the State. In the same vein, most of the parties represented here have more or less vehemently expressed the need to reform the current autonomous financing system. Even when the current minister, María Jesús Montero, was acting as Finance Advisor of the Board of Andalusia, she demanded a new model of autonomous financing as she understood that the current model does not guarantee fair, sufficient and equitable financing. Interestingly, Mrs Montero used the same argument as the People's Party when she voted against it. They would have to pay more attention to the People's Party. But if this reform was already necessary, today, with the pandemic, it becomes essential. Our country has the worst health, social and economic figures in all the countries of the European Union. We have the highest number of contagions, the highest number of deaths, the highest unemployment rate - by the way, scandalously high in youth unemployment and female unemployment - we lead the fall in GDP by 11%, public debt is triggered by historic records and while Mr Sánchez is not guilty of an economic crisis, he is responsible for the fact that these figures have worsened in our country as a result of his poor management and, I see, that part of this responsibility is also attributable to you, the Socialist Party and Podemos Members. Remember that they are supporting the drift to which Mr Sánchez, his twenty-two ministers and his more than seven hundred senior officials are taking to Spain. [[Applauds]] Keep in mind that it will pass into history for its contribution to generating the greatest social and economic crisis in our country. It is therefore necessary to correct this situation and it is therefore necessary for the Government to rectify, to stop acting alone, to listen to the autonomous communities and the municipalities and to equip them with the tools necessary to be able to develop with guarantees their competence in each of their territories. Ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Communities directly manage competences that are very sensitive to the effects of COVID. Health services, social services or education have triggered their economic needs and this funding model, far from covering them, causes an increase in inequality. This House must therefore once again urge the Government to resume the necessary work that remained pending in 2018 at the Conference of Presidents in order to achieve a new system of autonomous financing of local finances; a new system of autonomous financing that gives a financial response, among other things, to the problems associated with insularity, dispersion or ageing of the population of some territories; a system of consensus financing, not like the current one, which is based on the principles of equity, transparency, solidarity, fiscal co-responsibility and which ensures equal opportunities and public benefits, regardless of the autonomous community in which it resides. We are still in time to prevent the terrible decisions that Mr Sánchez has made since he was president from also dragging the autonomous communities and the municipalities into financial chaos. The Government has to anticipate and respond to situations that have already been warned in this House by my colleagues in the People's Party, including establishing the necessary mechanisms for the autonomous communities not to have to return the most likely negative balance of the liquidation of the years 2020 and 2021. We would be talking about returning around EUR 5 billion in each year, something that would be intractable for the autonomous communities and local entities. The People's Party is a party with a government vocation and continuously offers pacts and proposals with which to give solutions to the problems of the Spaniards. Here are the pacts offered by our President, Pablo Casado, to Mr Sánchez, who, unfortunately, have been rejected, or the more than 1500 amendments to the General Budgets of the State that the Socialist Party also rejected. That is why we need to get as much consensus as possible on this very important issue for all the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, that consensus is possible, we have already achieved it recently with the signing of the reform of the Toledo Pact, and the citizens have appreciated it very positively. This is the path that the Spaniards are asking us to follow and it is the path that we must follow on this subject. Our motion includes two more points that have to do with autonomous financing. On the one hand, we call on the government to apply the same weighting criteria that Europe has used for the allocation of funds between Member States as criteria for the allocation of European funds among the autonomous communities. The aim is to eliminate the discretionary factor in the management of these funds, which threatens a fair distribution and good management of these funds. Finally, and given the fiscal measures announced by the Minister of Finance and which, if implemented, would violate the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities, we ask the Government to respect and ensure that the autonomous communities can freely establish their fiscal and tax policy in their area of competence, as set out in the principle of financial autonomy as set out in Article 156.1 of the Spanish Constitution. As you have seen, ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Madam President - this motion raises issues where we can and must agree with most of the groups. I therefore call on you to support and vote in favour, and also to vote on points. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Bass Corugeira. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Plural Parliamentary Group intervenes first, and this time Mr Rego Candaimil will fix his position first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u251	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that we are surprised at you, always so concerned about strengthening the state framework and centralisation - it will not be that Spain breaks down - with the defense that you make it respect and ensure that the autonomous communities can freely establish their fiscal and tax policy. We agree, but what we fear is that this is only a tactical element to distance themselves in the game that they bring with their companions from a little further to the right, those that, as we say in Galicia, stopped them last Sunday in Catalonia. In any case, if your bid to defend the fiscal capacity of the communities is real, we hope that you will support our amendment so that the anti-fraud law, currently being processed, does not interfere with a new centralizing pulse as envisaged in the Galician Civil Right in terms of living inheritances. With regard to European funds, they know that the BNG is committed to being distributed and managed by the autonomous communities, and we believe that in the case of our country, following objective, verifiable and non-discriminatory criteria, Galicia has a minimum of EUR 12.6 billion. We are in favour of them defending the reform of the autonomous financing system, although we are certainly not going to agree on how. However, its inconsistency is evident because in Galicia the government of the Popular Party of Feijóo seems to be very comfortable with the current model because it does not claim another, despite clearly harming our country with a loss of resources, between what we contribute and what we receive from the State between 3000 and 4 billion euros each year. That is why the BNG not only advocates revising the model, but in our case radically changing it. We bet on a model of economic concert with the state that recognizes Galicia's ability to determine its fiscal and tax policy and collect all taxes. It is a model that would benefit all Galicians and Galicians and which, despite this, the PP of Feijóo rejects. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u253	Thank you very much, President. Allow me a preview, unsolved mysteries. First mystery, why now that we have a progressive government the police never appear in the manifestations of ultra-right or fascists and continue to appear and carry in the manifestations of progressive or left-wing people? Yesterday, in Valencia, again the police, who depend on this government, the PSOE and the Unidad Podemos, charged against people who peacefully demanded freedom of expression and freedom for Pablo Hasel. Sometimes it seems that batras always go after normal people, but with the Nazis they never dare. Second, why does the PP talk about solving funding when it is in the opposition and not solving it six years ago when it had absolute majority in Congress, in the Senate, in most of the autonomous communities and, moreover, had a legal obligation to do so, because it was mandated by the law, which had to present a new funding model? At good times, green sleeves, but, anyway, it's better late than never. We formally call for the point vote, which the rapporteur has already accepted. We have tabled three absolutely reasonable amendments. The first is that funding should be addressed immediately. There are general budgets, the elections have been held in Catalonia and the allocation of funds has been approved. Therefore, there is no longer an excuse, and we are talking about justice, equity, people's rights, public services. The second amendment we have tabled is that, while this funding system, which has already expired for more than six years, is approved, there is a leveling fund for the six autonomous communities that are below the average and, therefore, suffering under-financing because of the inoperation of the different governments, and that the illegitimate debt, which is precisely the result of this under-financing, which does not have to pay that absolutely illegitimate debt to future generations. The third, which reasonably addresses the problem of tax dumping, causes some autonomous communities to establish unfair competition between themselves. We propose a system like that of the IBI of the municipalities, with a maximum or a minimum, but in which everyone has to pay. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u255	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the People's Party moved us to discuss the reform of the autonomous funding model. To this end, they refer to the initiative adopted by Congress more than two years ago, in which the Government was urged to face such imperative reform. So far, so good. However, it forgets the PP that the current model, adopted in 2009, as Mr Baldoví has already pointed out, established that it should be revised in 2014, i.e. seven years ago, that we are coming late; seven years ago, ladies and gentlemen, five of which, by the way, were ruled by the same People's Party that today is rushing us into this debate and doing so, moreover, from a motion full of criticism, also with a good dose of cynicism, but with little or no proposal for a solution. Its text contains a brief account of some milestones related to the financing system of the past lustre, but nothing says the motion on the battery of measures adopted by the current Government over the past year in an attempt to save an architecture of autonomous financing in ruinous state, certainly, and moreover, in this last and already long year to one of the greatest challenges the State has ever faced in its recent history. Nor do they include any comment on the suspension of the tax rules, that shirt of force which you yourselves approved and which did nothing but reduce the ability to manoeuvre to the autonomies during the last crisis when the determined competition of your action was most needed. Nor do we have any opinion on the EUR 16 billion allocated among the autonomous communities to deal with the health crisis and the increase in the resulting social demands: the greater transfer of the State to the margins of the financing system. Clamorous silence also in the face of an increase of 7.1 % in 2020 in the financing system or also clamorous silence in the face of the record financing of 146 billion euros committed for this year. Anyway, he doesn't miss that much either. Where the motion does affect it is the risk that there will be an increase in deliveries to account during this and last year. Indeed, it has already occurred in the years 2008 and 2009 that these deliveries proved to be well above the final liquidations, which has already forced many communities to reintegrate these differences in time. What, then, do we do to avert these risks, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Because to urge the Government, as the first point of submission does, to approve the necessary mechanisms will not deny me that it is a somewhat vague formula. Do you have any concrete proposals in mind? Because they also speak in the motion that the autonomous communities do not have to pay the central government the negative balance. And there I close quotes because they leave me something pathetic, Mr. Bas. Anyone could come to think of what you want to forgive debt. If so, we will be happy to sit with you and go into the details of what this means. Be careful, you are not going to scare any of the ladies who sit in your own ranks, but, by the way, delighted to discuss that concept. You also want to encourage the government to apply - I quote literally - the criteria and weighting that Europe has used for the allocation of European funds. That is, nothing that is not already being done in the distribution of the React-EU funds because the three indicators, as you well know, pandemic impact on GDP, unemployment and youth unemployment, are directly inspired by the distribution model. Finally, you introduce the Help clause of dumping, and allow me to put it in these terms, because you remind us all of the principle of financial autonomy as set out in Article 156.1 of the Constitution which you yourself have cited, but the point, Mr Bas, is that such an article at no time says that it is established freely, as you say. Rather, it says the article - and I quote it literally -: 'in accordance with the principles of coordination with the State Treasury and solidarity among all Spaniards'. That is, as everyone in this House knows, from the independenceists to the far right, the Spanish territorial system is autonomous, not confederal. Again, if you want reforms in this regard, do not worry that we sit down and discuss, enchanted with life. On the other hand, Mr Bas, I believe that you are doing a weak favour of the constitutional text when you omit or, as in this case, directly distort those parties which bother you under what circumstances. In any case, it is true that the resolution of autonomous financing in Spain is pressing. In that I give you every reason and therefore it must be resolved as soon as possible in this legislature. Our parliamentary group will try to take advantage of the window of opportunity that will necessarily need to be opened soon to shield public services as fundamental as health, education, social benefits, attention to dependency, that is, to establish a floor of minimum income for all communities. In conclusion, I would like to say to you that, given the conditions of departure, in order to ensure that no territory receives less funding than it currently has, we believe that there is a need, among other measures, for urgent restructuring of the debt contracted with the FLA, with the liquidity fund. On the other hand, we believe that this debate, in addition to being pressing, must lead to profound reforms, with important consequences for the future sustainability of our welfare state.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u256	You have to finish, Mr. Guijarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u257	Thank you, President, it's over. He said that it is not a minor challenge, especially given the structural inequalities of which Spain is a part. I hope we all live up to that great debate that we have ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with this motion you put on your best costume in carnival days, appearing to be interested in an autonomous model that you have always turned your back on. And I refer to the facts. When they were government they drowned the communities with more underfunding, and the Valencians know it well. They had enough majority to modify and revise, when they had to, the model of autonomous financing, however they had no interest rate, despite those years in which the economy improved. But what's more, the dialogue with the communities was practically non-existent. On the contrary, since 2018, with the change of government, dialogue with communities has been permanent and solutions to any financial tension have been sought. More looser deficit and debt targets were set to give you more financial space; however, you voted against. We declare the emergency situation caused by COVID to allow them greater flexibility and financial autonomy; however, you were unable to support it. They voted against the 2021 budgets, with greater transfers to communities and municipalities. They voted against the regulation of the implementation of European funds, essential for economic recovery, where the participation of communities and municipalities in the form of co-governance and in the area of their competences will be key. And they constantly put their own funds at risk, delegitimized and falsely accusing the Government of Spain whenever they have a chance. They also do so with this motion. But what's more, where they rule they compete unfairly with lower taxes, straining the autonomic model, facing territories and precisely promoting inequality. Really, with their history, do they claim that they are somewhat concerned about the present and future funding of all the autonomous communities? Do you really think that we believe that you have any interest in moving forward on this issue? In fact, if they were concerned, they had opportunities to prove it; for the time being, they have done absolutely nothing to prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is fair to acknowledge the special sensitivity of the Spanish Government, and in particular the Minister of Finance, to the needs of the communities during these years of government and, in particular, to the pandemic. In 2020, communities have had 7.32% more funding than in the previous year, and in spite of you, in 2021, the autonomous communities will reach record funding, adding up the deliveries to the account, an extraordinary transfer of the state and European resources. They have already distributed EUR 10 billion from the React-EU fund, following the distribution criteria used by the European Union with its Member States; therefore, nothing arbitrary criteria. In short, resources are made available to ensure the financial provision of services that fall within their competence, from always respecting financial autonomy. They also speak, and there is no doubt, of the assumption that there are negative settlements for the deliveries made during these years, since, of course, the Government will take the appropriate measures to improve its financial situation in the event that it is necessary, as it has always done, but that is in the hypothetical event that this situation occurs. Because, moreover, they must take into account - as they forget and obvious - that EUR 16 billion has already been transferred to the autonomous communities. That can't be overshadowed. Without a doubt, the Spanish Government is making an extraordinary effort to meet all the needs of the citizens. Moreover, all efforts must now focus on ending the pandemic and achieving the recovery so eager that we can grow and undo the harmful effects of this health crisis, with present and future economic and social ramifications. We know that the duration of the pandemic will be decisive in accelerating this recovery. We are all called to participate actively in it, the central administration, communities and municipalities, all of them. Dialogue is already taking place, sectoral conferences are working. Therefore, I encourage you to stop looking for confrontations throughout the full and, if you truly believe in the autonomic model, let us agree on the essentials. Let us continue with the updating of taxation to the challenges of the future, accompanied by the economic situation of the moment we are living and improving in terms of equality and progressiveness. Let us address a reform of funding systems from deep reflection, calm dialogue and seeking consensus. We have tabled a replacement amendment, I hope you will take it into account because, if not, you will be denouncing that, in fact, your interest is another. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u261	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this matter the Regionalist Party of Cantabria has always defended the equality of citizens with regard to the public services provided by the State, live where they all live. For this, the actual cost of services must be taken into account and, therefore, the dispersal of the population must be assessed. You can talk about local entities, municipalities, parishes, pedanías or whatever they want to call it, but administrative classifications are artificial, never respond to objective data and are rather a consequence of historical and cultural events. I think it is high time that modern measuring techniques are applied, which are perfectly possible today, because we have data and we have sufficient instruments. It fills our mouths here talking about digital transformation and then, at the time of truth, we are unable to realize it or we do not dare not contradict political partners when they do not want to. There are even those who do not even understand a simple mathematical formula; that of algorithms should sound like science fiction. The other great concept that we must always bear in mind is the maintenance of the minimum status quo. All or almost all of the autonomous communities have serious funding shortfalls and all have historical debts. I am not going here to review Cantabria's historical debt, but I can cite examples of transfers of skills that were made with funding shortfalls, such as health care in Cantabria, although we have then been compensating it with our own resources. It is therefore imperative that the current minimum for the adequate resources of all basic services with public funding on an equal footing be maintained. This not only includes health, education and social services, but also includes means of transport, roads and communications services, which are essential communications in these times. And from this I have heard nothing in this debate. With regard to point 3, the React funds for Europe, I repeat what I said this morning when I asked the Minister of Finance not to present them and she eluded the answer. We want all the data and all the tables to be able to contrast them. I think that Amendment No 1 of the compromises with regard to financing and with regard to the others we are going to see what the transactions are like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u263	Thank you, Madam President. They're going to allow me to speak today about Ana Anmiga, who left us yesterday: canary, youthful, lagoon, nationalist, partner and friend, and who has the fault that for her work I was a deputy, a mayor and that for people like her I'm here today. [[Applauds]] Her mother, Emilia, who has lost all her young children to cancer and has run out of children, her husband Toño and her son José Luis, I want to tell you that today I cannot be at her farewell, but that she, her coherence, her life and her smile are here with me today and will always be an example. Thank you very much. With regard to the funding motion, Joan Baldoví and I, Compromís and Coalition Canaria, have been in office for eight years, ruling who governs this country and who is in opposition, raising this issue because it is a matter of justice and coherence. Canary Islands is the most affected by the economic crisis, we have half the population unemployed, but also by income, it has lost more income than the rest of the communities. We had an own income that was the IGIC, there is no tourism, there are no 15 million tourists and we have lost 25% of the income in the autonomous community. We demand a new funding system and we agree with the proposal that the PP brings today and we feel that when the PSOE brought it, and we brought it with us, Compromís and Coalition Canaria, you did not carry it out. And today we are glad that you are taking the motion back to the point vote for those who tabled a motion calling for an immediate modification of the funding system. However, in Compromís and Coalition Canaria we do not want to make any policy or change our position, what we really want is, first, that there is a new system of financing and fair; second, that the European funds are distributed within Spain with the same criteria as Europe gave more funds to Spain because the situation was worse and not with political criteria, and third, a respect for taxation decisions because we are in the state of autonomy. It is in the state of autonomy, lords of the PP and lords of the PSOE, for good and for bad and we have fiscal autonomy the communities, of course, with coherence also in the claim made at national level. That is why, once again, as a canarian nationalist deputy representing the Canary Coalition, we demand that once that study, which was completed in 2018, be put on the table and reached an agreement between the PSOE, the PP and all the communities because in one government and another and the injured are, in the end, health, education and the citizens of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u265	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating a motion following an inquiry by the People's Party, which may come to a halt in response to what has recently been said by this party. It is sad to see that the People's Party, which has wasted seven years of Mariano Rajoy's government, four of them with an absolute majority, for having addressed the reform of autonomous financing, which is so lacking, is only interested in this issue in electoral campaign or when it is close to it. And what are we going to say about the Socialist Party, which is delighted with its new formula of autonomous financing? Privileges for nationalist governments, disguised in those communities where they govern and grievances in the communities where they govern the People's Party and Citizens' Party. In fact, we recently saw what Mr Rufián's proposal was to ease fiscal pressure and make life easier for Catalans: to raise taxes on Madriders. I must admit, however, that in the context of the negotiations between Esquerra and the Socialist Party, this may not be the most unbridled thing we see, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard how the International Monetary Fund destroys the forecasts of the government and of the general budgets of the state, which are already wet paper, since it has just lowered the government's growth estimate from 9.8 % to 5.9 %, almost half. Ladies and gentlemen, autonomous financing is one of the major reforms pending in our country that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, on many occasions at the alimon, have been putting off for too many years. Meanwhile, separatists have been scratching more and more privileges and assignments on their own by that bipartisanism. We know that the arrival of European funds is going to be a huge opportunity to tackle this pending reform, but with this Frankenstein coalition in the Moncloa a number of questions arise and I ask myself a number of questions. What will be the weight of the table of pardons and the referendum on autonomous financing? How should the Government address the fiscal decentralization called for by Esquerra to annoy all Madriders and benefit Esquerra? What will be the concessions to separatism if a new model of autonomous financing is put in place? Obviously, these doubts are going to be present in every decision this government has to make, at least for us. And I would like to recall that Citizens was the only party that tried not to form this Frankenstein government, proposing our president, Inés Arrimadas, a constitutionalist alternative of the People's Party, the Socialist and Citizens' Party, because it was the only way that no more concessions were made to the nationalists here. But doubt only grows because of the opaque and arbitrary way in which European funds will be distributed, and it will be so thanks to a party like VOX, which not only did nothing to prevent the PSOE from being thrown into the hands of populists and separatists, but now gives the check to Sanchez and Churches to do whatever they want - literally, whatever they want - with European funds for the recovery of this country. Then you complain about the waste or the customer networks, but the reality is that you, gentlemen of VOX, have called traitors and worse things to Members of this House for supporting sanitary measures, and now you have given the key of the box and money to Churches and Pedro Sánchez to do with him whatever you want, without any control whatsoever. Gentlemen of VOX, you start by refusing to help save lives and you end up saving the Frankenstein coalition. Curious idea of loyalty you have! Finally, I wanted to demand the urgent need for a reform of autonomous financing, which is going to be key for Spain; a reform that affects equality and solidarity between Spaniards, values that make a country stronger and that must vertebrate our society, without forgetting, of course, freedom, freedom for each autonomous government to implement the fiscal policy that it considers best, as it is currently covered by the law, and does not have to depend on what Mr Rufián says and on what they want to negotiate in Catalonia with the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, in the extreme misfortune of this pandemic, European funds are presented to us as a great opportunity to address forgotten reforms. How many more trains are we gonna let go? Faced with the selfishness and privileges of Rufián and the lords of the Basque Nationalist Party, who have not even come to speak today - they are clear, it is the autonomous financing they want - let us gather the constitutionalists of this country: the liberals, the social democrats, the conservatives, and reform the autonomous financing system to guarantee prosperity and the welfare state throughout Spain. Now you may need it more than ever. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u266	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u267	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin with the question before us today, I want to have a word for Mount Priena, in Asturias, in front of the Sanctuary of Covadonga, which, sadly, has burned; a real catastrophe which is nothing more than the consequence of the pressure on the workers in the primary sector of Spain, to which the Administration is basically forcing to depart and flee the mountains, which are necessarily abandoned, and the abandoned mountain, sadly, burns, as happened on this occasion in Asturias. However, the wolves will be able to camp wide on those mountains - there will be no problem -, the flocks will flee and the poor peasants will also have to flee. [[Applauds]] This seems to be a mere introduction, but you will see that it is quite related to the issue we are going to discuss here today. Today we are dealing with a subsequent motion for an inquiry in which, in essence, we call for additional funding to be provided to the autonomous communities. Among other things, we are asking for something that Mr Guijarro, of Podemos, has precisely stressed, and that is that the autonomous communities do not have to pay the difference regarding the progress made by the State to them in view of the collection of the years 2021 and 2022, which is obviously going to be much smaller than expected, that is to say, that they are being exonerated from payment, as Mr Guijarro said. So, I raise a question: Do you think that you are going to forgive the debts to all the self-employed, to all the workers of Spain, to all those SMEs and companies that have had to assume debts in order to overcome, to cover this temporary that the Administration has provoked? Do you think that they, that small company are going to be forgiven the debt or that, on the contrary, they are going to end up suffocating it and sinking, as the government is doing? From VOX we believe that the autonomous system, in general, must be reformed downwards until its complete disappearance. The autonomous communities are seventeen kingdoms of Taifas, in which the money of all Spaniards is wasted and wasted, without any control. [[Applauds]] And today they come here to ask us to give them additional and somehow irregular funding, to the extent that it is not legally provided for. Well, we believe that the autonomous communities are already subsidized, financed more than enough by the transfers derived from the taxes that they themselves collect - agree - as well as by the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, totally opaque, since it is not known when it will arrive. If you, Spanish listeners who listen to us from home, search in Google Autonomous Liquidity Fund, amounts 2020, 2019 - the year you want - you will see that it is absolutely impossible to find it. Mr Baldoví, do not leave, because I also have a question for you that I would like you to listen to. [[Mr Baldoví Roda was leaving the Chamber and returning to listen to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala's speech.]] The Autonomous Communities are absolutely well financed. Why do we see it so clearly? We see it because they are able to spend on absolutely unnecessary issues. Which ones? If they were so bad, if they were so tight, they would stop spending on those issues that are not necessary for the Spaniards, that do not seek their well-being, and yet do. Let us think of those Catalan embassies, which cost about EUR 900 million a year. [[Applauds]] Let's think of that TV3, which is a propaganda apparatus for the benefit of politicians to be re-elected - they give up on TV3 and then be re-elected -: it costs about 238 million euros. Let us think of RTPA, Radiotelevision of the Principality of Asturias - here everyone spends as much as they can - which costs us about 30 million euros a year. And let us also think about the officiality of the bable, which the government of Asturias wants to impose on all the Asturians and which is going to cost us about 20 million euros a year - we see that Asturias is left with money, because they still want to put in another 20 million euros extra -. And as everyone spends to the extent of their possibilities, Mr Ximo Puig, whom you support in the Valencian Community, Mr Baldoví and Mr of the Socialist Party of the Valencian Country, was spent 43 000 euros on taking pictures in a foreign newspaper. Mr Baldoví, if so bad are the Valencians, they should cut back on these issues. And what are these expenses? Think, Spanish, that the average cost of a dwelling in Spain is 175 000 euros, that is, the Catalan embassies are equivalent to 5143 official protective housing per year, TV3 is equivalent to 1360 official protective housing per year, RTPA is equivalent to 171 official protective housing per year and the bib official will be equivalent to 114 official protective housing per year. But the average shopping basket for each Spanish family is equivalent to about 5000 euros of expenditure per year, i.e. Mr. Ximo Puig with his photographs in The Guardian was spent on his personal drum feeding nine Valencian families in a whole year. As you see, all these expenses that the autonomous communities cry and cry for them are expenses that are made only for the benefit of politicians.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u268	You have to finish up, Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u269	Yeah, I'm done now. As always, the Spanish taxpayer, who with his sweat and effort pays taxes one after another, in the end what he is paying is the party of politicians. So, gentlemen, if the autonomous communities need more funding, let them start to manage their resources well and stop spending on this nonsense, which is not for the benefit of the Spaniards, but for the benefit of politicians alone. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u270	Thank you. Mr Bas Corugeira, do you accept some of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u271	In accepting the point vote, no amendments can be accepted. However, we would be happy to discuss these points in the relevant bodies, which do seem enriching in order to improve the system of autonomous financing.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-17-CD210217.u272	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was three and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
