ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona María Teresa Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, he asked Don Ricardo Tarno Blanco if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u3	Thank you very much. Don Ricardo Tarno Blanco has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u4	We begin with the first item on the agenda. Amendments approved by the Senate to the bill amending the consolidated text of the Law on Traffic, Motor Vehicle Traffic and Road Safety approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 6/2015 of 30 October 2015 in the area of driving permits and licenses by points. Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u5	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me, I'll step in from the seat to see if we can save a couple of minutes on the way and come. This bill was discussed in the Internal Affairs Commission and we did not set a position in plenary because it had full legislative capacity. It is undoubtedly - as in the rest of the laws - necessary that the Traffic and Road Safety Act also adapt to a changing environment. We all know that security and mobility are their priority and must be adapted accordingly. In the process of Congress we tabled a number of amendments; as always, some were incorporated directly and others, through transactions. I would like to highlight some of those that have been incorporated from our group. [[Rumors]] One, on the necessary control of toxic substances in the case of persons transporting passengers by road. This type of toxic substance and medical controls are being carried out in other transports and we considered that to be a step forward. Another of the incorporations was the non-prohibition of wireless devices for communication and navigation when they do not put road safety at risk. [[The Rumors Continue]] And thirdly...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u6	Mrs. Gorospe, wait a second, please. I'm asking for a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u7	And, third, that drivers of personal mobility vehicles are obliged to use protective helmets in the terms that are determined by regulation. New amendments have been incorporated into the Senate phase; our group has not tabled any amendments, and we will maintain the same sense of vote in the Senate today for consistency. I would like to highlight, to explain what our vote in the Senate has been, two aspects that are very important. For us there must necessarily be interaction between the student and the teacher when raising awareness in a subject such as this, so sensitive, that, as we know from traffic accidents, puts the lives of many people at risk. And secondly, in relation to the business model of self-schools, we want it to be directed by criteria of proximity and proximity because we consider it to be much more effective and efficient. Let me - now that I have seen that the Minister of the Interior has arrived - also make a criticism of what has been the procedure for the processing of the law. Minister, we work with other ministries in advance of all the bills that come to this House; we have previous contacts, and I believe that in the parliamentary procedure the possibility of reaching agreements is a positive contribution. Therefore, I encourage you to do this on other occasions - as you are doing from other ministries - because I believe that the result and the environment are usually more favorable. With regard to the bill, we voted in favour and consider it to be a general step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This bill talks about road safety. Road safety is something that saves lives and, therefore, we are truly satisfied with the outcome of this bill, which aims exclusively at that point. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group has tabled a number of amendments in the course of the presentation and we had basically three objectives. Our overall objective was to place road safety in the 21st century, to place it in this century in which technical and scientific advances will somehow transform mobility. And we focus it on three fundamental parts: first, the automation of driving as a thing that the law itself has to pick up already because it will probably be the future. Automated driving systems will undoubtedly lead to a disruption of mobility, and the original text did not mention them at any time. We therefore very much appreciate the inclusion of the Citizens' amendments in everything that mentions the world of automation in driving. Secondly, our amendments had to do with the transformation of the market and we therefore put forward initiatives, which are liberal policies, which allow greater access and, of course, improve competition within the road training market. The truth is that being in the 21st century - in which we are, as we said before - it seems strange that we continue to think, for example, that there must be physical establishments in the different territories in order to be a company that trains people in road safety. It seems incredible that we still need a physical space, a physical headquarters of a company in an autonomous community or even in each province, in order to train future drivers. This, which was approved with our amendment in Congress, was rejected and amended in the Senate. We do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that talking about distance learning, talking about online training in the 21st century seems to be a taboo subject. We believe that the government, after so much bet on digitisation - even being part of the axes of the sustainable development goals and the objectives of the REACT-EU funds to come - cannot be forgotten about digitisation. We've been in the teleworking pandemic, we've been in the pandemic doing distance training, but you, Socialist Party gentlemen and, apparently, PNV gentlemen, are still in the 19th century. We want to be in the 21st century. We can access and take away master's degree, we can take away degrees of distance training, but we can't get out the theoretician of distance driving, we can't access distance training to take out the driving license. This is absolutely incomprehensible. It can only be understood from the pressures of the traditional formation groups, which have been succumbed to by the Socialist Party and Podemos. Thirdly, we need to talk about awareness-raising and awareness-raising. Look, here you can do it online, here the Senate text does say that you can do it online. The theoretical part of the driver's license does not, but awareness training does, but of course, give it all to labels that have put it in virtual classroom. Who defines what a virtual classroom is? Where is in the text what is a virtual classroom? How will a virtual classroom be approved or not approved? All you are doing with these indeterminate concepts of virtual classroom, without specifying what that virtual classroom consists of, is generating legal uncertainty. Who's going to certify that a self-school has a virtual classroom or that it doesn't? What is a virtual classroom? Because we each have a concept of this. They are absolutely indeterminate concepts that only generate legal uncertainty. And you say, in the end, that these courses will be worth taking out your driver's license. Why the driving license alone and not other things? What does it mean they're going to do for the driver's license? It seems to us that there is an abundance of legal uncertainty on a permanent basis. Therefore, we do not like the final text very much. I'm gonna finish. We call on this government to bet on the century in which we are, on digitisation. Believe me for real.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u10	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u11	Finished. Abandon yourselves the 19th century. I regret that these so-called liberal groups reject amendments that are precisely going towards market liberalisation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have already announced to you that we are going to make strict time control from the Presidency, because, as you all know, the agenda is very long. So, I think it's for everyone's benefit. I am saying this so that the next speakers will make the effort to attend to the five minutes. Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u13	Thank you very much, President. I will also make the intervention from the seat, in order to speed up the plenary session. The truth is that this project comes back from the Senate with some adaptations. We sincerely believe that the most important thing is the adaptation of road safety regulations, a regulation that has to comply with the new realities. It is true that every day this is evolving more into mobility services and, therefore, we must open the door to the future of road safety, the future of travel, the future of mobility. And there is a controversial measure in which I would like to stop two seconds, as regards the advance, to exceed 20 kilometers/hour on the conventional roads in the advances. The truth is that one can find theories of all kinds, since it is necessary to be able to exceed the 20 kilometers/hour on the conventional roads in order to make the advance much faster, until, which is also true, that the high sinestrality that occurs in the frontal shocks is an issue that must be of particular concern to us. Therefore, the best measure to prevent traffic accidents is to avoid dangerous manoeuvres, and we understand that on conventional roads where a limit is already set, it is true that the best measure to be taken may not be that this limit of 20 km/h can be exceeded. For this reason, understanding that it is a controversial issue and that it can generate many theories, the truth is that we prioritize road safety, we prioritize eliminating any type of accident and, above all, minimize or reduce the frontal shocks that occur in this type of accident. That is why we wanted to make this special mention of this controversial amendment and to validate a text which we believe is generally satisfactory, with its notes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u15	Good morning. Good morning, deputies and deputies. We are debating today whether Congress is going to ratify the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill to amend the Law on Traffic, Motor Vehicle Traffic and Road Safety. I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that in the course of the process of this law they have forgotten once again that they do not have an absolute majority. I invite you to reflect on this; if you do, perhaps next time you will save some amendments against the same Directorate General of Traffic, such as an amendment that you negotiated very badly in Congress on road education, which opened the door to the iberization of the self-school sector and which, fortunately, has been corrected in the Senate. They lowered road education and teachers' work and this is very serious; we would really have to worry and occupy, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, since a good education sensitizing future drivers would significantly reduce traffic accidents; and when you have talked about occupying think about who you wanted to occupy, surely someone very close to you. In our group we have always had it very clear: road education, road knowledge, as languages they are, must be taught in schools and at all ages. On the roads a wide variety of users, such as pedestrians, bicycles and skateboards, also travel cars, buses and trucks. They are well aware that only by regulating this knowledge in schools and from an early age will it be possible to solve it. Yes, it already happens, but it happens insufficiently because it only occurs in primary education. It seems to me that it is clear, education and education, because for our group, road safety education is very important and, therefore, that the teachers who provide it should be explicitly trained teachers for this subject. In this sense, we consider that the new title of Senior Technician in Training for Safe and Sustainable Mobility will be a great opportunity that must be added to the long tradition of training and road education in territories like ours, which is Catalonia. It ended not without insisting again on the need to dignify the working conditions of all workers in the sector, from teachers to professional transporters. From self-school teachers because it depends on them that a young person wants to learn to drive in order to really know how to drive, understanding the complexity of the machine he carries in his hands, that he can come to kill, and the multiple risk factors that intervene in it and not just to acquire a card or that is remotely. And professional carriers, for whom we ask the possibility of retiring early and safer working conditions. Finally, we are grateful for the willingness to incorporate and to deal with many of the amendments that we have tabled. I can assure you that our amendments were not the result of whims or lobbies, but were contrasted with associations and trade unions, and are the result of active follow-up to the numerous appearances made in the Committee on Road Safety. Surely if I had been more involved in the Road Safety Committees and asked all the rapporteurs about distance education, I would have made another speech today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u17	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this amendment of the Traffic Act is to re-place Spain in the lowest numbers of victims of trafficking. The European Commission's working paper, the framework of the European Union's road safety policy for 2021-2030, aims to reduce by 50% the number of people killed and seriously injured by 2030 and to move towards a figure close to zero by 2050. In order to achieve this objective, it determines that one of the pillars to be addressed is that related to the safe use of roads, it is necessary to focus on better compliance with traffic regulations in the areas of speed, distractions - especially the use of mobile telephone devices - safety belts, child restraint systems and protective helmet. The commonly known as point driving has been the most effective tool to contribute to the reduction of disaster on the roads and in the cities of our country. Several specific studies on this subject indicate that around 15% of the reduction between 2005 and 2009 was directly due to the impact of the point permit and that, perhaps even more importantly, it contributed decisively to internalisation of the behaviours and attitudes that pose the greatest risk and risk to driving. After several years of experience in the application of the point permit, and as has also been happening in other countries with similar systems, it is time to update it, maintaining a model that is considered valid but focusing on those aspects that require modification with the main objective of improving the effectiveness of the system and strengthening road safety. The main focus of the reform is on the review of infringements that detract points, the recognition for road safety of overcoming safe and efficient driving courses, the up-to-date treatment of professional driving and the two-year unification of the time required to recover the initial balance of points after the firmness of the sanctions. These have been the various aspects addressed during the process of processing the law. The Senate's amendments bring us some corrections to the outstanding issues. Of particular importance is the adoption today of the amendment which limits the maximum speed in advances. The possibility for passenger cars and motorcycles to exceed the generic speed limits set for conventional roads by 20 kilometres per hour when moving to other vehicles running at a speed below that speed is also abolished. The elimination of this possibility is the last important aspect that remains for the adjustment of speed limits on conventional roads to be real. However, there is one aspect that we cannot endorse. This is a serious lack of use of bicycles on the sidewalk. While we share the concern to ensure the safety of pedestrians, we cannot understand the application of serious misconduct. There is case law in which children riding bicycles had to face severe penalties for this definition. Furthermore, we are pleased with the work done and the final text that we will adopt today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you have again demonstrated your inability to conduct your own law, as evidenced in the decisions when it comes to adopting amendments, the same inability and the same danger that you demonstrate every day by leading the future of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You, the PSOE, have voted on some of the amendments in this House's committee by changing the view in the Senate; you are not even able to agree between yourselves. As an example, I will focus on the amendment that removes the possibility of moving beyond the limit established on conventional roads by 20 kilometres/hour. The experts, all the experts, have established with data and studies that it is an error to increase the journey in one advance - the distance -, multiplying by three, and it is an error to multiply by three the time in one advance; they endanger the drivers. [[Applauds]] But you, faced with this argument, send us to the director of the DGT with an objective fact: that with the current law you cannot charge a few million euros of fines that you have with the current track radars. You, with this measure, again endanger the lives of drivers on conventional roads, and more so if we take into account that when you force these drivers to pay for the use of highways, their use will be even greater. Where they do focus on this law again is the responsibility of the driver and the behaviors that, of course, must be eliminated and improved. It is very well and it is necessary to remember and work on the responsibility of the citizen, but, ladies and gentlemen, while you focus almost exclusively on the conduct of the driver, this government obvious elements that affect the safety of the drivers and in which you have a totally direct responsibility. I am talking to you, for example, about how infrastructure is located, especially on secondary roads, or about the state of traffic signals - 70% in bad condition or expired - and you keep them that way. Another responsibility that this government has and affects road safety is to have the oldest mobile park in Europe. More than thirteen years on average have the vehicles in Spain, but - that is - as registration taxes continue to rise, which does not help to renew this mobile park, you spend 100 million euros on renewing your official cars. You do look for your safety, at the cost of the citizens' pocket, that you cannot change your vehicles. [[applause]] And since we are talking about a law that seeks zero victims, I do not want to forget the victims who indirectly are victims by a benevolent law in the convictions of drivers who knowingly commit a crime causing fatal accidents and victims that are not counted. A recent example. [[Shows a newspaper clipping]] The father of the young man who died in a kamikaze action in Madrid. This father could not bear the eight-year sentence for killing his son and committed suicide days later. This benevolent law that you maintain is an irresponsibility and so claimed by victims' associations. Sentences like this cannot be maintained; you have a responsibility. They have already abandoned the victims of ETA terrorism, Minister, leaving them without justice; do not leave the victims of trafficking without justice. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we were all tested in this House by a driver to drive a vehicle, many of you would not have the Member's licence to drive the future of Spain or the Spanish. The spirit of VOX is to ensure security, justice and life. Also in the Traffic Act. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u20	Thank you, Mr. Alcaraz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gamazo Micó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. My first words today will be in memory of all the victims of road accident, especially the deceased, but also of those who suffered sequelae and of all their relatives and friends. [[Applauds]] They will also be words of thanks to the People's Parliamentary Group for the honor of allowing me to put you and defend our position, to the lawyers of the house, to all the entities that tried with their proposals to improve the initial text and to all the rapporteurs, especially my good friend Don Jaime Mateu. Today we are not going to pass a new and ambitious road safety law for the sectarianism of socialism, which renounced the preliminary draft that the People's Party government left in the ministry. Today we are discussing a mere patch, with a marked restrictive, punitive and coercive character; a reform loaded with prohibitions and more infringements that precedes increasing punitive pressure and which includes only one measure aimed at stimulating responsible conduct of drivers. Ladies and gentlemen, reducing the number of dead and injured on our roads is a shared goal, although we sometimes disagree with the measures taken to achieve this, as is the case today. Thus, we disagree with the removal of the margin of 20 kilometres/hour in advances on conventional roads. Do you know why the People's Party is opposed? Because the measure advocated by the PSOE is not based on any scientific study or analysis and can only be justified by the government's collection effort; a government that has turned our roads and DGT into its ATM. In order to reduce the risk in the advance manoeuvre, as some speakers have already said, it is necessary to do so in the shortest possible time and space, and with the incorporated amendment it increases both the distance and the time necessary to do so, increasing the risk of suffering a serious disaster. With this occurrence, distance and time multiply by almost three, causing more dangerous situations rather than reducing them. Ladies and gentlemen, have you wondered how many lives can be lost from this amendment? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, can you assure us - we have already asked the Minister in the Commission and did not reply to us - that your measure will not increase road damage on our roads? Seeking exemption from this policy of the ministry from many cheap and soon paid fines, in such a critical environment as that of advance, is simply immoral and irresponsible. On the other hand, here in Congress, we negotiated an amendment with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with other groups that established the use of anti-start alcohol meter devices from 6 July next year on all passenger and freight vehicles. It was an agreement that socialists in the Senate broke with a big lie from the DGT: it said no one had asked for it. You socialist ladies and gentlemen, when you are in the committees, do you listen to those who come to Congress? Because the transport sector did ask us in the Commission to install alcoholics in their vehicles. Without going further, the representative of the Spanish Confederation of Goods Transport seemed to him to be a super interesting measure. No one explains how they can oppose a preventive measure that removes irresponsible drivers from the road, combining driving with alcohol, disrupting the coexistence of the road network; no one. That is why they have the opportunity to rectify today. Don't miss it. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, who has seen them and who sees them! They have moved from the banner against tolls calling for the freeness of motorways throughout Spain, to impose in this law the infringement of the non-payment of tolls. [[shows a sign that reads: PROU AP-7 FREE NOW!]] Curious evolution progresses: from asking for gratuitousness, Socialist Party throughout Spain, in this case the AP7 for the Valencian Community, to taking a step further with this law in its toll plan and punishing those who will not pay them; some tolls that my group does not share, because in real Spain the drivers already pay enough taxes for using the vehicles. [[shows another sign in which, under a traffic sign of location Oliva-Gandía, is read: AP-7 Gratuïta. PSPV/PSOE]] [[applause]] Socialists, what was not necessary in this reform was your attempt to load the 8500 self-schools with this amendment to Article 62 that you approved in the paper. On the contrary, strengthening the quality of the assessment system and of road training for obtaining the driving licence was and is necessary, and they did not worry about that. It's over, President. Road safety must be a State policy that requires broad consensus. Socialist ladies and gentlemen, reaching those consensuses requires loving them and working to achieve them. Believe me that it is tremendously difficult to try to reach them with those who constantly change their mindset, as if they were in an eternal Yenka dance, and who put other interests before the general interest and that of road safety. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Gamazo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Durán Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u23	Thank you very much, President. In 2019 1755 people died in traffic accidents. In 2020, despite mobility restrictions, 1370 people died and 6681 had to be hospitalized; almost five people a day died in 2019. They died by traffic accident, I don't know what ETA has to do at this point. My first words are to convey our most sincere support to the families and friends of the victims of traffic accidents who have lost their lives; also to those who, despite saving their lives, fight daily against the consequences produced. [[applause]] While it is true that the trend in recent years is downward, there are still too many broken lives, too many broken families and too many dreams destroyed by a traffic accident. That is why the Socialists and the Socialists have always had the sensitivity and commitment to do everything in our power to reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents. From here, I would like to convey my gratitude to President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, to the then Minister of the Interior Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, to the Director General of the DGT, to Pere Navarro, because fifteen years ago we approved the Carnet por points, which undoubtedly meant a before and after the time of saving lives on the road. [[Applauds]] Fifteen years later it is again a socialist president like Pedro Sánchez and a minister like Marlaska who will update and strengthen the system, creating a specific section, which previously did not exist, such as using the mobile phone holding it with his hand, which will mean a loss of 6 points, because we have to remember that more than 30% of accidents occur for this reason, or increase the withdrawal of points from three to four for not making use of the seat belt, child restraint system or helmet. It is also important to remember here that one in four people who died in a van or in a tourism did not wear a seat belt. The obligation of vehicles with personal mobility, the so-called skateboards, to use the helmet is also collected, and cyclists are protected by ensuring the distance of one and a half meters in advance, and in case there are two directions in the same lane, the complete lane change will be necessary. It is also important to eliminate the increase in speed at 20 kilometres per hour on roads to advance on secondary roads. It is a clear counter-speed message that equates us to the rest of the European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not nice to tell someone who runs and is in a hurry that he cannot run; it is not nice to tell a person who is waiting for a call or an important message that he cannot take his mobile while driving, and it is not nice, now that we are at Christmas dinners with friends, family and co-workers, to tell him that if he drinks, do not drive. But this law, ladies and gentlemen, does not intend to please, this law does not give votes, this law is a law of life. [[Applauds]] Since he does not vote, we cannot count on the vote in favour of the People's Party, of VOX or of Citizens, because, many flags of Spain, but what little do you care about Spain, the Spanish and the Spanish. And what little has ever mattered to the People's Party about road safety. Mr. Gamazo, how can you come here to make a speech full of complaints and reproaches when you have the worst road safety management of all governments behind your back? What did the Government of Mariano Rajoy do over the past six years, when, despite the fact that in its mandate the number of people killed in traffic accidents increased, it did not put a single measure, a single law or a single decree to improve the road safety of our country? [[Applauds]] Road safety policy must be a State policy, where there should be no ideologies. We should send everyone a clear message to society that we need to be aware of our own vulnerability as human beings and not be led away by the false illusion of control, because we will not always be able to control the situation. That is why we stand for the passage of this law and we will do everything in our power, because we do not want any more stolen lives or broken families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Durán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise very briefly to thank the work of the Presidency of the Committees on the Interior and Road Safety, Mr Juan José Matarí, Mr Ana Botella and Mr José Luis Ábalos. The fundamental reason, as we say, is that in this country we can be proud for fifteen years of having faced road safety, the safe system. We have become in these fifteen years, as has been recalled, the third country with the least deaths and serious injuries at European level, but the time had come to reform, to enter the 21st century and to continue to advance and protect the lives of our citizens. That is what this reform has done, to continue in that secure system, with two very clear ideas. I will refer, from the most technical point of view, to the fact that 70% of those killed and seriously injured as a result of road accidents are on conventional roads. In 2019, this government reduced road speed from 100 to 90 kilometres, resulting in a 30% reduction in the number of deaths and serious injuries. The secure system is based on two principles to guide policy change, and this has been followed by this reform to further enter the twenty-first century. Even the most diligent driver can commit recklessness, however little it may be, and let us not forget that any vehicle is a dangerous instrument in our hands. And, secondly, we are fragile bodies and the least impact can have on us important consequences. These two principles guide, for example, the reduction of speed in certain circumstances, in certain modes of driving. This is due to the concrete will to save lives and avoid serious injuries, as has been recalled here. I want to thank you, therefore, for this important work because we continue to save lives. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the associations of victims of road accident. They're always there, they're always guiding our steps. And I also have to say that civil society, that third sector, such as victim associations in our country, in Spain, are a real luxury and let me say that even envy in our western environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 12/2013, OF 2 AUGUST, OF MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE FOOD PROCESSING. [[File number 121/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u27	We continue with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending Act 12/2013 of 2 August 2013 on measures to improve the functioning of the food chain. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. The law that we had been waiting for for for so long comes, and it does so with the Senate amendments, which incorporate certain issues but few of an excessive nature. I even thought that the minister would be here and I would ask him the question that I asked him exactly a year and a half ago when we asked him questions to solve precisely all the problems that arose from the absence of measures that conditioned certain issues in the food chain. Unfortunately, it gives me the feeling that we still have the same problems, because the situation of farmers as a whole remains quite problematic. If we add to that the different links in the food chain, of course, the situation generated is not the best. The Government therefore proposes to bring a law in due course to address all those issues arising from such absences in the food chain. The objectives are clear: to solve the problems that we all felt existed in the different links in the food chain. To this end, the Committee on Agriculture decided that all the different sectors, all those elements affected, starting with the producer, farmer, until the last distributor, had to appear in order to position themselves and to tell them what is happening in the chain that is not working and that each one should state what he considered appropriate. It was done, the amendments were then put forward and, from there, work began. The point is that we are getting rather sluggish, because we believe that the government or the party supporting the government was not flexible enough to accept the amendments that several groups put forward, because what was the central objective? The aim was to avoid abuse, to prevent unfair competition and to set the minimum of production costs, the famous element of production costs. And today we still do not all agree on the costs of production. Sure, in the end, what's going on? We would have preferred it to have been a basic price, and that was raised in our amendments. A basic price. It wasn't accepted. Therefore, we have the law that has gone to the Senate, it has returned with some incorporated amendments, which is what we are supposed to debate today, and we have some kind of sweet sour flavor. We know that the Socialist Party government has negotiated certain issues that obviously improve the original text, but we would have preferred some of the amendments that we have tabled to have been accepted. Some of them, for example, because we believe that, in that desire of the State to assume even what is not its own, the expansive concept of traceability or the subject of inspection made us dwell on some issues and say: forgiveness, this is the matter and competence of the Autonomous Community, in this case, that of Euskadi. How far we're going to get with the inspection thing, and so on! Therefore, the law has improved from what came out of the ministry offices to what we now have, well, but it is not the best. Therefore, the problems continue. With the milk problem, we continue to face enormous difficulties; prices are rising; farmers are not coming, and we are going to pass a law which, in addition to transposing a European directive banning the sale at a loss, wanted to solve a number of other issues that are in the food chain. Did you solve them? I'd say not at all. So, we're left with that sweet sour taste. My group is going to abstain from the amendments that have been tabled, abstained from the bill and we will continue to do so. Finally, Madam President, I want to say that there is half a wonderful opportunity left to solve the problems of the food chain, in which we wanted everyone to win. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, it seems like a utopia, but what better for everyone to win in that important chain, which starts in the producer and ends in the consumer, going through the transformer and the distributor. It won't be possible; a shame. We will abstain, but this is a wonderful opportunity. Has anything improved? Yeah, but not everything. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A lady from the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today returns to the Congress of Deputies the law of the food chain, which comes from the Senate with some amendment of our party, Citizens, passed there; a law that will not really improve the problems that the sector we wanted to protect. Farmers continue to complain, continue to have cost problems, continue to manifest themselves and will continue to do so, because it is a law that was designed to protect them and that leaves them again without tools. We have always been very critical and have said and affirmed that the actual cost of production, by itself, does not solve farmers' problems, but we could have made improvements. In Citizens we tabled many amendments aimed at improving that concept of actual cost of production in the contract to reinforce it, but it was impossible. It is true that with other political parties we managed to draw some amendments that would help the chain or, at least, this amendment that is being dealt with and that is being voted on here today. We call for a table of indices to be drawn up and published, at least periodically, in order to have greater transparency in the market, to know what is happening on the market and, above all, to ensure that this transparency gives farmers more peace of mind. But if something was needed, it was that farmers could quietly denounce the imbalance positions they suffer in this food chain, because if it doesn't work-that I'm convinced it won't work, that farmers will still have the same difficulties to sell at the best prices to be able to maintain their activity - they always have the mechanism to be able to denounce. We are very pleased that it will be approved, with an alternative majority to the parties of the Government - the Socialist Party and the United Nations - that there is a competence of the General Administration of the State for food dossiers in those cases where the corresponding body of the autonomous community did not deal properly with complaints that could exist on the part of farmers. This will always ensure that if there is a problem in dealing with these complaints in an autonomous community, there is always a central body that can review that the complaint file is being properly reviewed. We also believe that it was very important to ensure the identity of the complainant, and that was achieved in the Congress of Deputies, a guarantee that the farmers who had to denounce those positions of domination would be reassured. In the Congress of Deputies we managed to protect the complainants through administrative means, but it is that, now, an amendment of Citizens in the Senate has also managed to protect the complainants in the judicial way. If there is something that all the farmers' associations told us in the appearances here at the Congress of Deputies, it was that there were often reprisals for the complaints made. And if something doesn't work - and I think it won't work - it's the cost of production, at least that they are protected and have the possibility to quietly denounce the abuse by other types of links in the chain. We can therefore say that, at least with these positive amendments, there has been a little improvement. But, unfortunately, we are convinced that we will not be able to say that this law solves the problems of the countryside and farmers. There are also some amendments tabled by other groups that have been passed in the Senate that we believe are important. For example, one aimed at making more information available to the network's stakeholders. Within six months of the entry into force of this Act, the various factors involved in determining the cost of production shall be published with specific criteria. At least we will know that when the cost of production is determined, concrete criteria will be used and farmers will be better protected. Something is something, but we are convinced that this law will have to go back to Congress to be changed again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u32	Thank you, Madam President. This law is preceded by Decree 5/2020, which already introduced the concept of effective cost of production and which arises in response to the wave of mobilizations in demand of fair prices for agricultural productions that had taken place during the last months 2019 and early 2020. On the same line, this law specifies that the price to be received by the primary producer will have to be higher than the cost of production. This, which can in principle be considered an improvement in contractual relations, becomes a problem for producers as they are forced to demonstrate and justify this actual cost individually. This leaves most farms in Galicia helpless. This is very evident, because it is being used by most companies to fix the price on the basis of the blackmail of non-collection and with the aggravating fact that that price appears to cover those production costs when it is not actually. That is why the BNG tabled amendments, which unfortunately were not taken into consideration, to establish basic prices or to articulate public cost assessment mechanisms that could serve as a reference. For example, in Galicia, allowing official bodies such as the Galician Dairy Observatory to collect all the data needed to draw up a serious and rigorous study on production costs. In our country, farmers are mobilizing to defend their interests, especially in the dairy sector, with demonstrations, boycotting certain brands to claim fair prices for milk in the face of the reality of having to sell at a loss. I would like to express from here the full support of the BNG for Galician farmers and women farmers throughout the state, for these mobilizations and for a claim which we consider absolutely fair and which, unfortunately, is not going to solve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u34	Thank you, President. The amendment of Law 12/2013 of 2 August of measures to improve the functioning of the food chain sought to achieve several objectives: to respond and meet the historical demands of the agri-food sector, which accounts for 10% of gross domestic product, to avoid abuse, unfair competition, to define sales-loss production costs and, above all, to transpose the European Directive on unfair commercial practices in business relations, in the agricultural supply chain and food. Our group has tabled thirty-three amendments, collecting much of the concerns of the agricultural organisations and the other actors concerned and involved. We face the amendment of the law as an opportunity to protect and shield the weakest link in the food chain, i.e. producers, and especially when setting prices. Through the transactions that were approved, claims defended by the Democratic Party were incorporated into the amendments: the creation of a register of food contracts; the amendment of the retention period of any documentation related to such contracts from two to four years; the prohibition on the buyer returning agricultural and food products not sold to the supplier without paying for these products not sold; and the establishment and delimitation of a number of practices as serious faults. I had my reservations with the text that came out of Congress last September, which comes to us today from the Senate for the vote on various amendments. They are reticence that the resulting text allows us to close important chapters for the future and development of the sector. We regret that the amendments dealing with the position of dominance, which is fundamental to our group, have not been incorporated and that one of the main problems of the chain is solved. It was vital to define with what market share the dominant position is in the food chain, as in other sectors it has already been established, for example in the supply sector. For years and now the dairy sector has been in the UVI: rising energy costs, fuels, raw materials and especially for the irritant price at which milk is sold - between 0.32 and 0.35 euro cents -. Many farms do not arrive at the end of the month. The dairy sector is a clear example of the sectors most affected by this dominance position, and with the final text of the amendment of the law we do not respond to an endemic problem. I believe that the Government has lacked courage and ambition in dealing with the change in the chain. The result is its superficial modification. I would like to express my appreciation to the agri-food sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u36	Thank you very much, President. For our group this law has started from the beginning from a lack of courage and positioning that, today, has meant that it not only does not solve the main problems that affect the food chain, but in some cases even leaves the smaller links in a clear situation of legal insecurity and vulnerability. In any case, I also agree with other colleagues who have commented here that in a short time we will probably have to reform the law again, because there are issues that have still remained in the tinker. In that sense, one of the amendments that was important to us, which was rejected even from the beginning and which demonstrates - we believe - a lack of interest in wanting to solve the problem at its very root, was the recognition of the position of dominance as the main factor of imbalance and generating abusive practices of large corporations - large industry and distribution - on industrial producers and smaller suppliers. That was fundamental, and we really believe that this is the most important root problem. We propose to establish a value on the basis of the market share of the different members that make up the chain, from the producer, through industry to distribution. And we are aware that outside the dominance position other circumstances can consolidate a market control power that can be used to impose abusive conditions on the food chain. And therefore, in this regard, we demand and will demand that the Government attend to its analysis, and in any case to a regulation and a sanction. On the other hand, its refusal to include our amendment so that, on a regular basis, the average production costs of essential foods, with particular attention to fresh and perishable foods, could be published and disseminated, has also made our position on this law very difficult. This amendment fulfilled all the requirements and precepts to be preserved from competition laws and regulations, and in fact implied a clear willingness on our part to involve the different reference bodies, both state and autonomous communities, in the improvement and transparency of the chain. To give an example, if, as expected next spring, there is optimal production of bone fruit in various producing areas and, as has already happened in previous times, the producer's prices with which the campaign is materialized do not return production costs, what explanation will we give to the sector? That's already happening in the dairy sector. The current prices received by milk producers are already in full conflict. I therefore wonder how this law will improve, in the wording to be adopted, the day-to-day milk farmers, when precisely this sector is already suffering the consequences of the implementation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2020. This is the first experience we have to see how it affects, how it impacts this law or regulatory precept in this sense on the dairy sector, and it really isn't working. And finally, denying direct access to the Register of Agri-Food Contracts to the autonomous communities that have competence in this regard by the official agencies, to communities that are precisely exercising this activity in the field of their competences - with inspection and regulatory powers - also draws a model of actions on the chain that we do not share directly. It is the typical competition amendment, but for us it is very important and involves entering directly into the own management of the law. In its day Catalonia managed to exercise the powers of control of the food chain in its territory, after obtaining a favorable ruling from the Constitutional Court. It now exercises them fully and in direct collaboration with the CadeCAT and AICA, and it works. In any case, we wonder whether we have to go back to the courts to claim a jurisdiction that this law could have left completely delimited and defined. And, if this is the model, a decentralizing model of management, this is not our model, and therefore the positioning of this law has been negative, we have voted not in Congress and in the Senate, although the amendments that have come from the Senate will probably vote in favour of the majority. In any case, we believe it is important to retake this law later in order to try to correct many elements that have not yet been defined. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you see these milk cartons? [[Show a picture]] To produce a liter of milk today in our country costs 60 cents. Well, what you've seen in that picture is 34 cents of semi-bleached milk cartons in some supermarkets; that means 26 cents less than it costs to produce. Do you know who's carrying these losses? Very easy, our farmers, our livestock and our livestock. That milk is not paid with money, it is paid with blood, with despair, with the misfortune of our producers, and that has so far been the shame of our country. That is an unfair, abusive practice, which is called sale at loss, and that from tomorrow, when this law is published in the State Official Gazette, it will be prohibited. Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, Spain will be a country worthy of its primary sector. [[Applauds]] If we have come this far, it is thanks to the mobilizations of those who give us food, of our farmers and livestock, who have come to a situation of full survival that forced them to go out on the street and to plant themselves demanding fair prices because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a long way to go. I'm curious to see what face of the coin will bring us today the right, that Popular Party that plants goats and milk olives. Right, Mr. Married - who is not here - that when he rules, he is neither expected nor is, and that when he naps is to sign free trade agreements that destroy our primary producers. I am curious to see also the position of the far right of VOX, which is taking walks in the rural areas of Andalusia and throughout the country, but when it comes to putting black on white what they want to do in a law, what they propose is to legalize the sale at loss, leaving it sold to the weakest link in the chain. Well, let everyone know today: VOX does not defend the farmers and farmers of our country; it is the ones who have been choking, the strongest links, who have been exercising abusive practices against them. [[Applauds]] I would like to acknowledge today the important work of the whole sector, especially of the agricultural organizations COAG, UPA and Asaja, also of the agri-food cooperatives, and how not also the effort of industry and distribution by the great dialogue and the search for consensus, but also I would like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture for its courage in bringing this law to Congress, the Socialist Party, to the parliamentary majority of this Congress, and of course to my parliamentary group, ha Unidad Podemos, which has always defended the fair prices in the food chain. I want to thank you because so many hours of negotiations - today we are seeing it - all that hard work has been worth it. This law develops fair and balanced trade relations in the food chain so that no one can force our producers to sell below the price they struggle to produce, and so that no other link in the chain can sell below what it cost them to buy the products. Unlawful promotions are prohibited, the image of products such as olive oil will no longer be destroyed by the purchase of a box of bottles, a digital and public register of food contracts is created, abusive clauses such as sale at loss or as a result, the possibility is established that the studies of the Price Observatory are cost indicators, a fairer definition of the cost of production is made, which for the first time recognizes the work of the producer himself and his family members, as well as the work of employees as part of the value of the product, in my opinion the highest and main value of the product, and the establishment of preventive measures, commonly called precautionary measures, is recognized in the cases necessary during the period of judicial proceedings. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we approve one of the greatest hopes of our producers, which is to get fair prices in the food chain. We know that much remains to be done and we will continue to work on it by this Government and the groups that support it. But now, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to implement it, it is up to us to develop urgently, with courage and rigour, because our farmers, our farmers, our livestock and our livestock deserve and need this country to live up to their standards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course, our support and solidarity for the farmers who are demonstrating today in Merida and who will do so tomorrow in Valencia against the policies of this government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. [[applause]] We have here the final procedure of the draft law amending the Food Chain Act, which comes from the transposition of the directive on unfair commercial practices, unfair commercial practices and imbalances in the food chain, which must be corrected, of course, because those who are mostly harmed are the lowest link, which are farmers, farmers and fishermen. Our amendment, which is still alive here, which comes from the Senate and is being debated, is the direct mention of employment in the agricultural sector and its importance for rural areas, something we should all agree on. The issues of trade imbalances in the chain need to be corrected, just as it is necessary to prevent monopolies and trusts for a free market to exist, because monopolies grab the market in few hands and destroy the productive sector that consists of hundreds of thousands of small businesses and millions of workers that make up our social sector, something that in a primary sector located in the rural world is fundamental, because the lack of profitability of farms is one of the fundamental reasons for depopulation. Hence our criticism of the free trade agreements which are replacing our agricultural sector, and which so much like the PSOE-People's Party; for the agricultural sector the national umbrella is fundamental. We reiterate that the oversupply of food products from outside Europe is the one that is leading to the massive drop in prices and the imbalance in the food chain; therefore, even if it is in isolation, we advocate for the Community preference, the national reference, the control of Europe's borders and reciprocity in countries where production costs are very low, there are not the same conditions of food health and there are semi-slavery wages up to ten times lower than in Spain. [[Applauds]] We advocate free trade that complements us and helps us in exports, but not free trade that replaces us. There is no greater monopoly, imbalance or unfair competition than that which states without freedom or communists, such as those of the friends of Podemos who seize all means of production, can compete in free trade with democratic countries as if they were on equal terms. As the representative of FEPEX told us, in Congress, a national agricultural market intervened, while borders are totally permeable to imports of the same products that we generate here, is to make our consumer market available to third countries and ruin the national food sector. The above, together with the rise in production costs in Spain along with unbearable obstacles and conditionalities, will be the ruin of the national primary sector, the relocation of our sector, and greater depopulation for our peoples. Do you really believe that in this context it is going to be sold above costs with this law? Fuels have risen by 22% and electricity by 280 %, feed has tripled its price, fertilizers have risen by 85%, CAP compensations have been cut, the reduction of EUR billion in rural development initiated by the PP is consolidated, red tape is increased, administrative barriers are increased, inspections, penalties and attacks on meat consumption and livestock are increased, the wolf is placed in front of livestock families, and water is restricted for agricultural holdings in all hydrological schemes; all this data shows that inflation and the rise in products is shooting off. There are two impact reports that say that our agricultural sector is going to lose up to 20% of its profitability to the environmental policies of the European Union, one of the United States and the other of the European Commission. For all that said, the Food Chain Act of this government is going to be a fraud. If we are losing market position and profitability, if prices are ruining and if agricultural, livestock or fishing farms are being closed down throughout the food chain, it is because of the lack of national ambition of this Government and of the former in defending the interests of our national primary sector, our food sovereignty, our borders and our products. We still remember phrases like Mr Margallo's, the PP's, saying that talking about national sovereignty is stupid. VOX has come to defend our sovereignty, to defend our people and our productive sector, and at the heart of national sovereignty must be the food of the Spaniards, the defense of our products and the root in our peoples for the profitability of the farms. VOX is here to defend Spain from its policies, which produce this [[shows a photograph in which you see fruit thrown]] Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chamorro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u42	Good morning, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my first words must be of thanks to the work done by my colleagues in the Commission and, in a very special way, to Milagros Marcos and Marta González, as well as to the lawyers who have helped us. Ladies and gentlemen, what goes wrong ends badly. This government, frightened by the protests and tractors of farmers at the end of 2019, decided to stop them. Thus, in February last year, he passed a royal decree-law forgetting the dialogue with the most affected agents. It broke with previous consensus and, worse, took advantage of the pandemic and restrictions of all kinds to prevent a participatory and transparent legislative task. Unlike what happened on this occasion, the law in force - up to now, the 5/2013 - pioneer, which promotes a People's Party government, at that time generated the maximum consensus when it was adopted and was a highly valued text among all the sectors involved. Once again, this government, the government of marketing - as I like to define it - the one of the ads, that government of no We will not leave anyone behind, used the amendment of a law by means of a royal decree-law with two great ads: the costs of production will be covered and the sale at loss will be prohibited. The spokesman for Podemos just remembered. Both Promises, like so many others, will be unfulfilled and, if not, at the same time. But the truth, and in a nutshell, is that the government has shown internal division and attitudes of pride by failing to respect the main actors of the law and also Parliament. There were discrepancies within the government and chaotic negotiations. Example of the first: in order to end the sale at loss, the Law on Minority Trade had to be amended, they did not agree in the Council of Ministers. Example of the second: the whole development of the Commission was chaotic. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presented transactions with itself, which then withdrew when it saw that it had no support from anyone. It ended by voting against its own amendments. More chaotic, impossible. [[Applauds]] I repeat, if for something this whole process has been characterized by the lack of consensus and the lack of effort in its search. We proposed that more than thirty representatives of the sector involved appeared: milk, wine, bananas, farmers, fishermen, etc., and all agreed on the same thing: in the need to regain the dialogue and consensus that was given when the People's Party law was passed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not guaranteed that producers will perceive above what is difficult for them to produce. They don't guarantee a euro of profit. The scenario of recent months has only added new difficulties for them and their production costs: electricity, diesel, feed, the interprofessional minimum wage, taxes. Everything has led to an increase in prices, which has also led to these being uncompetitive and which, in turn, has involved buying products from outside. They didn't want to rectify their mistakes. In the text, and many will, we have already done what the Government has done, which is to buy out. The example we have always remembered: buying milk in Portugal so as not to violate its own law. With what arguments will they now tell the large areas that do not buy oil, fruit or vegetables in Tunisia or Morocco? On what grounds? Ladies and gentlemen, we said it and we did it. If through these forty-five amendments we tabled in Congress we failed to improve the law and help the affected sectors, we would do so by supporting those of other groups, but still the result has not been the one promised by the Government and the weakest and most vulnerable in this chain will be the most affected. Two years ago, Minister Planas said that all solutions to the problems in the field are in the Food Chain Act. These were your words, minister. It's been a long time and they, the weakest, are back on the street desperate to show that, their despair. [[Applauds]] Yesterday you, Mr Planas, said here in the control session that this law is the most important of the legislature. These were his words. But it has failed the truth, because it stated that it will prohibit the sale in loss, and it will not be so. And time will tell. He also tried, in a game of political trilerism, to hold my parliamentary group responsible for failure if we do not support the law, but they will not make us complicit in the effects that this law will cause. [[Applauds]] The Government and the groups that support it are solely responsible, rejecting our amendments, all of which are consensual with the sector. We will not be responsible for the consequences of this law. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our country, for agriculture and for the livestock industry in Spain. For the first time we will have a law with which we will protect the primary sector, with which we will protect that weakest link in the agri-food chain. We can say in capital terms that we are facing a protective, guaranteed, high social reform for our country. Moreover, it goes beyond the logic of the strongest in exchange for protecting our farmers and also the consumers of our country. This Government, ladies and gentlemen, listen; that is a reality. I am telling you this because this measure fills the collective aspirations of a sector that has had a historic claim in our country, and that today will be completed with the adoption of this reform of the Food Chain Act. [[Applauds]] Today is one of those days when politics makes sense, and this reform is an example of the value of our legislative work that dignifies politics. We are making the primary sector not the one that always loses, and the weakest par excellence in our economy not the one that always loses. With this government, ladies and gentlemen, I guarantee you, we guarantee you from the Socialist Group, that no one will be left behind with this reform, no farmer or farmer. [[rumors]] Absolutely no one. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we look back, in the last decade we have seen that the price crisis has been deepening on all farms and livestock. There have been many mobilizations that we have been able to see demanding fair prices and claiming the profitability of their products. That is why this reform of the Food Chain Act was more necessary than ever. We had to make it more equitable and more balanced, and from tomorrow it will be so. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is time for courageous politics, for courageous politics; it is time to protect the small and medium-sized farmers of this country. Yes, to the small and medium-sized farmers who work on their farms. [[Applauds]] They need, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, policies full of content and not full of words; they need facts, and the reform of this law is a great fact for farmers. Farmers in our country need to protect their farms, stability to generate certainty in the whole of agriculture. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that seriousness and rigour you do not know them. Its only policies to help the sector - we have seen them in the last two weeks - have been confrontation and generate conflict. That's what you do when you're in the opposition; when you're in the government, smashing small and medium-sized farmers. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, patriot is not the one who shakes the flag, but the one who protects the majority and works for its citizens, and for this reason believe me that the Socialist Group is here. [[Applauds]] I will remind you of what you do when you govern with farmers and farmers: you punish the small and medium-sized, you drive them out of your farms and you only defend large farms and livestock. We have seen it when they ruled, we have been able to verify it and it has been experienced by all farmers during their more than seven years of government in our country. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the Group of the European People's Party does not understand us, with this minister and with this government, farmers are calm and hopeful. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] You're calm and hopeful, and you... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u46	...and you do this, what it is to shake to try to boycott the action of a government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, don't worry, that this government is going to make farmers move forward and win rights and opportunities. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for leading and leading an ambitious reform. Also to all the parliamentary groups that have contributed, mainly to my group, to the Socialist Group, which has worked seriously and rigorously to formalize this reform today, too, of course... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Your time is up, Mr Serrano; thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to consume a brief round of courtesy and thanks to the parliamentary groups in this House for their work, for having made possible this final procedure of the adoption of this bill which represents a before and after in the regulation of our agri-food chain. I would therefore like to thank the honourable Members of this House for the work done, in particular the Committee on Agriculture, with the hearing that took place on this bill and the work carried out, as well as the honourable senators and the whole of this House. I believe that the contributions made to the debate, and in particular the amendments that have been introduced, have improved the draft sent by the Government. On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the House and also, of course, the Senate and all its honourable Members who have contributed to this very important advance in the Spanish agri-food chain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. - PROPOSAL FOR A LAW TO AMEND THE CIVIL CODE, THE HYPOTECARY LAW AND THE CIVIL INJURY LAW, ON THE LEGAL REGIME OF ANIMALS. [[File number 122/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u50	Amendments approved by the Senate to the proposed law amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act on the legal regime for animals. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] It is not in the Chamber. We therefore continue the debate. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u51	Thank you, President. Today a circle is closed that began in February 2017. It was my first intervention in this rostrum and I defended this proposal, which is finally being implemented today. I would like to thank both the People's Party and the current Government of Spain that, in their day, both welcomed this proposal we made in Citizens. It could not have been in the first attempt; the previous Government began to deal with this rule, but it could not be made concrete by the motion of censure and the dissolution of the Courts, but it is true that, respecting the spirit of the House and the vast majority with which this reform was approved, this Government has rightly endorsed the proposal as well. Put on the piles, because in the area of animal protection we have done much more, but much more, the parliamentary groups than the Government, which has a whole general direction that has not yet provided a new idea. All this is based on the previous work of other groups. The idea was ours, but I recognize that the technical contributions of the other groups have been essential. I would also like to thank the civil society that has worked, associations of all kinds that have collaborated so that this reform can be carried out. But I want to stand on this last day on which we are going to deal here with this issue - because, fortunately, the reform will be closed - in the Observatory on Justice and Animal Defence, with Nuria Menéndez de Llano at the front, which has been essential; all of your technical and legislative work in this area I think is essential so that we can be here today finishing this whole process. Without people like Nuria, this wouldn't have happened. In Citizens we believe that the legislative impulse in defense of the well-being of living beings must be global. I know that we are going to hear a false argument that will tell us that all this is perverting the nature of animals, with that simplicity that attributes the condition of good or just to everything that happens naturally. Dying from caries is also natural, a mortality rate of one child of every three newborns is also natural, and before this nature the human being rebels, and one of its most impressive qualities is to modify with our intellect and with knowledge these circumstances that, naturally, often occur. This is the path we must follow with other living beings. We are, as we know, the only species that recognizes the suffering of others, out of empathy, because we understand that other living beings can suffer. From this recognition arises the obligation to avoid suffering or that, in the event that it is inevitable - there are many issues that inexorably lead to the death of animals - it occurs in the least painful, least burdensome and less suffering for living beings. One of the qualities that makes us better, as I tell you, is empathy. The recognition that has since been included in the Civil Code, in addition to changes in inheritance, in divorces, where animals had a consideration that was no different from that of a television set, will now change forever. It also opens the door to many other things: for example, with animals that were abandoned in homes, the inviolability of the home with respect to the animal often prevailed because it had the consideration of a refrigerator; now that will no longer be the case. In traffic accidents animals were treated as luggage in the car; this will not happen again. I want to say that this recognition made by the Civil Code will in many ways extend the scope and capacities of judges to deal with situations that are taking place today. Another of the issues that occurred was the pet embargo, this was: a person gets ruined, they come into his house, they take everything away and they also take the dog away from him. This was not acceptable. It is also true that judicial officials and judges often avoided this aberration. What should be the future? - and with this I'm done. We must also look at the Penal Code. It cannot be that, as happened in the province of Malaga, a protector who brutally sacrifices two thousand animals is more punished for the documentary falsehood in which she incurred than for the death of these animals. What I do ask is that we approach this matter with great rigor and seriousness, and between which God in creation put all animals at the service of man, and that chickens are raped by cocks, there is a very wide field in which we can work; so seriousness. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] According to Mr Díaz, who has no inconvenience in this regard, we have resumed the intervention of the Basque Parliamentary Group and Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u53	Thank you very much, President. If I may, I will intervene from the seat to be shorter. The adoption of these amendments to the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act is an important step, as has already been said, in a new conception of animals, in line not only with what is established by science, but also consistent with a new social sensitivity and also in accordance with the current order of the Union and that of the most advanced countries. This new conception of animals not only reflects what I have already pointed out, but also represents a remarkable step in the right or proper moral direction, as it shows our ability to understand the suffering of other living beings and from this derives the moral obligation to avoid it and much less to protect or enjoy it with it, not even by undermining cultural exceptions. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u55	Good morning. Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject before us on this agenda item is the amendment of the Civil Code, the Civil Prosecutions Act and the Mortgage Act, a modification of civil law which, of course, we welcome. It is true that some technical corrections come from the Senate, such as the appointment of the judicial secretary to the lawyer of the Administration, but there are also some substantive concretions associated with the care of animals, the possible modification, if circumstances change, of those regimes that have been established in possible divorces. In short, to open the door to a very important question, which is a modern regulation of what concerns pets, to change the nature of animals because, in fact, they are not things, and thus to take a step forward in the new conception of civil law, to separate us from the old conception of Roman law and to recognize those living beings endowed with sensitivity as a part of our reality. Rules of coexistence, rules of well-being and even rules on inheritance or divorce, fronts that it took the legislator a long time to face and that in my part, from the perspective of Catalonia, of course, Catalonia's own civil law will also shortly have to collect and develop. Therefore, our sense of vote on this issue is going to be in favour of opening up a new legislative framework in line with the modern values of our society and recognizing pet animals as sensitive living beings, as we now see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u57	Thank you, President. One always wants to go home, but especially this week so that I can look my cats in the eye and tell them that today this House legally recognizes them as sensitive beings, to them and to the millions of animals that are members of the family unit. Animals are not good, they do us good, but we already knew that; even those right-wing Members who vote against or profile themselves, who stay out of play every time justice advances in the line of defense, know that. I'm sure many of you live with family animals and are recipients of their unconditional love. Those animals don't understand laws, but they do understand loyalty. These animals do not follow the plenary of this House, but they will follow you to the end of the world. VOX is against it because the legal amendment gives category of subject of right to animals when they have no duties. I ask you: Are young children or persons with disabilities subject to the law? Yeah. Do you have any obligations? No, no, Okay, they're not people, they're animals, they're sensitive beings. Change the vote and move to the right side of this story that today, with or without you, will have a happy ending. A few days ago, we celebrated the Day against Macho Violence and said that an abuser cannot be a good father. Today we go further and say that a person who mistreats an animal neither, tall and clear. Some people are shocked: How are we going to compare the abuse of animals with the care that a father gives to his children! When a man threatens to harm or harm family animals it is vicarious violence, it is psychological abuse towards his children, towards his partner and ex-partner and, from now on, to abide by the consequences, because the abuse cannot go free, because it is our duty as a society to defend our children, adolescents and also our animals, those who have their own name and live in our homes, but also those who do not have it with the future law of protection for animals. Today, we humanize the Civil Code, we do so because the welfare of the family animal will prevail over its administrative ownership, because the custody of the animal must be determined by the emotional bond and the guarantee of its care, and this will be taken into account by the judges in the cases of separation and divorce, inheritance or in cases of loss or abandonment. From today on, those beings with sensitivity will be heard, because the judge will speak for them in order to attend to their well-being. And yes, there are those who prefer to continue considering things legally, even if those things move their tails to welcome them home. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u59	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a good day for our country. Finally, today we approve the legislative amendments by which animals will cease to be things and from now on they will be considered sentient beings. Beyond the legal implications, today's decision is a moral victory: in a country where more than 200,000 pet animals are abandoned each year, we are facing a very significant step forward. Six years ago, under the hashtag #Animals are not things, dozens of organizations and tens of thousands of people - with outstanding contributions from the Justice and Animal Defense Observatory, people like Nuria Menéndez del Llano and many other people and organizations - mobilized to start the process that leads us here. In his first step to this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, the spokesman for VOX, Mr López Maraver, in an intervention more peculiar to a bully than to a deputy of the Courts, described this law as a social-criminal law. I mean, to stop considering animals as things was called social-criminal, which advances in a decadent society. Mr López Maraver, it seems to me decadent that it is to see a bull with horns burning being the object of mockery and fun, that seems decadent to me. [[Applauds]] What we are doing today is, without a doubt, moving forward. Let us remember that 40% of Spanish households have pets, some 16 million dogs, cats and other animals. I suppose each of these animals, of these dogs, are regarded as agents of evil international globalism by the lords of VOX. In short, animals are not things, and this is what sums up the spirit of this initiative that was left half in the last legislature. By the way, in the previous procedure, the People's Group, which was the initiator of the previous legislature of this process, abstained. We hope that today you will join this consensus in which you were in the last legislature and do not let yourself be dragged into troglodite positions represented by the far right. We are faced with an important and necessary adaptation of legislation that other countries in our environment have already done years ago. The Treaty of Lisbon, adopted on 1 December 2009, incorporates the recognition of animals as sentient beings, being incorporated as a general and constitutional principle of European Union law and also obliging the Member States of the European Union to follow it. The first to do so was Austria in 1988 and then Germany in 1990; the third country to reform its Civil Code was Switzerland in 2003. For its part, France reformed its Civil Code in 2015 to expressly declare that animals are sensitive living beings and, finally, Portugal also amended its Civil Code in 2017. I guess these are all social-criminal societies. Outside Europe, other countries such as Canada, New Zealand or Colombia have also recognized animals as sentient beings in their legislation. This non-legislative proposal is therefore in line with other European legislation and will, since its adoption, regard animals as sentient beings. In this way, the owner will have to exercise his rights and duties of care, apart from ensuring well-being, depending on the characteristics of each species. It is about respecting and responding to increasingly frequent situations, such as divorces or separations. After a breakup, there are those who want to continue sharing life with a pet or in cases of death, accidents or embargoes. It should be remembered that approximately 30 000 of the 100,000 couples who separate each year live together with an animal, and it was therefore urgent to resolve this situation legally. For our part, in Unity We can commit ourselves to the protection and defense of animals is, of course, an unequivocal commitment. This is a very important step, but many steps remain to be taken: the law of animal protection, the amendment of the Penal Code and, ultimately, that we can realize what Gandhi said that one can judge the greatness of a nation and its moral progress by the way in which animals are treated. Let's keep moving. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u60	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr López Maraver has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u61	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. This social-communist government is advancing in the folly, folly and folly of humanizing the animal and dehumanizing man. [[Applauds]] And in this grave advance of opening the doors to animalism, one of the most modern and cruel ideologies that condemns the animal to lose its own instinct and its natural essence and places man at the edge of the abyss, are added many others of this parliamentary arc, those that have become soldiers of an army of lacayos submissive of the sectarian insignia of the circle of colors that already imposes on men the pattern of what we have to eat or even breathe. In this sectarian modification you are all included. They have washed their face in the Senate to this genuinely dangerous legal review, with inefficient patches of one another and opening the doors, as I warned a few months ago in this very rostrum, to the atrocity of granting them rights to animals. The government of the senseless will be able to change the reasons for what is defined as an animal, even to invest them with man, but will never be able to change, no matter how much they commit themselves, the natural condition of the animal, because it is not determined by men, it is determined by nature itself. [[Applauds]] A person who does not have the capacity to acquire obligations cannot by his or her own being acquire rights comparable to those of persons. Animals must be protected, because to a greater or lesser extent they coexist with the human being, but always according to their species and characteristics and in no case by the recognition of impossible rights. This reform of the rule introduces so much nonsense that it forces us to re-emphasize that it is foolish to make a judge clear what he should do with the custody of a pet as a member of a family and equip him with a child. It obliges us to insist that the pet belongs solely to its owner, who is always responsible for his actions. It reaffirms us to indicate that the granting of rights to animals is pure phariseeism. They say that in the event that the injury to a pet causes his death, the owner will be entitled to compensation, because they are aware that an animal, because of its existential condition, cannot be compensated for moral damage, nor can it be granted rights. It requires us to warn that being able to retain, value or take care of an animal for the sake of its well-being while being lost is an absolute attack on the title of ownership. Only the State Security Forces and Bodies must be responsible for the animal until it is always returned to its owner. And, above all - and most seriously of this reform - it forces us to ask ourselves again whether human offspring, since they are in the womb of their mother, and the offspring of the animals, have the same consideration. [[Applauds]] The text reads: 'The offspring are subject to the fruit regime since they are in their mother's womb, even if they are not born'. I said it many months ago and I repeat it again today in this rostrum: you are hypocrisy, you have done the opposite with the law of abortion: to man death and to animal life! [[Applauds]] Globalist patterns of the Government of Obedience continue to set the standard. Mrs Belarra, in charge of the elites' most prisoner and servant portfolio, is already threatening a draft animal welfare law which is a veritable atrocity, which pursues nothing but commercial and economic interests, which little or nothing cares about animals and their respect and which bites in the yoke of the rural world. We do not know whether it will come to this House as the atheistic gift of Kings for city animalists or it will be the January coast of those who truly love the countryside and its animals. What is clear is that in this preliminary draft, which they have put to whitewash the Minister Planas in a halo of reasoning, it is already consensus for the servants of the Communist 2030 Agenda. Mr Casado tries to conceal it by taking pictures with the most affected ones, but then the PP is seen as the plumber, as demonstrated yesterday on social networks by the vice president of the Andalusian Parliament - yes, Esperanza Oña -, insinuating with nefarious criteria that certain sectors of the rural world do not respect their animals. This is the PP we know, the one with the good words and the one with the horns on the back. In short, this Government and its allies will never take care of and preserve absolutely nothing to do with animals and the rural world. They attack the very essence of what an animal is and condemn the death row to man. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u62	Thank you, Mr. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u63	Thank you, President. In 2017 the People's Party began the regulation of the legal regime of pets to end their consideration of things, recognize them as living beings endowed with sensitivity and, given the bonds of affection that people develop with their animals, declare their unembargoability and how to decide their fate in the event of divorce. That was the necessary reform and therefore reached a unanimous consensus. It is evident, therefore, the interest of the People's Party in ending the anachronism of considering the animal as a thing. But what happened now? The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Podemos presented an initiative that did not respect that consensus, but, above all, that came out of this House having introduced issues that, far from giving solutions, would create more obstacles and conflicts in family and property law and will harm minors by equalizing in the event of divorce the interest of animals with that of minors, whose best interests - let us not forget - is that which always and above any other must prevail. With the redrafting of article 90, the approval of the divorce agreement was conditional on the assessment of the situation of the pet, equipping it with that of the spouses or children, to the extent that it had to leave unresolved its visitation or maintenance regime. Today we are pleased and grateful to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to all the groups that have rectified and accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group to Article 90 in the Senate, so that if the judge finds agreements harmful to the animal he will warn and take the appropriate measures, but can approve the other issues, in particular those concerning children and the couple. We are glad that we have achieved this rectification on an issue that would have had undesirable effects; there those who do not support it and continue to maintain what has come out of here. But the satisfaction is not complete, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going back in part today and intends to reintroduce in the text the equalization of the welfare of the animal with that of the children in the event of divorce before the lawyer of the Administration of Justice or the notary; that is, to leave the custody regime, food and stays with their parents in suspension because it appreciates some impairment of the welfare of the animal. I appeal again to the common legal and human sense. Defending the welfare of animals does, of course, but does not equate their level of protection with that of people and much less undermines that of children in a situation as difficult and sometimes conflicting for them as the separation of their parents is. I therefore ask you to ratify in full the amendment to Article 90, which already gives the necessary tools to ensure the welfare of pets, but without this implying that children's rights are no longer being resolved. With issues such as these or with the inclusion of others because of the demands of their partners, such as limitations on the granting of joint custody of minors, even if it does not constitute a conviction, giving the civil judge the power to resolve an issue that must be addressed with all guarantees in the criminal field, they have perverted the objective of this reform. Far from being a useful tool for the courts to put in place measures to ensure the welfare of the animal, it may mean the opposite: turning it into an inconvenience and that many families give up hosting one in their home for fear of becoming a problem. I repeat, we are pleased that you have accepted this amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group, because it was always the intention of the People's Party to reach agreements, but we regret that you have given in to the radical positions of your partners on issues whose consequences have not been analysed and that they will contribute to judicialization and increase conflict in the areas of family and property. Gentlemen of the PSOE, I ask you to apply the legal rigour and defense of people in those other laws that announce animal welfare. We protect animals, yes, but they do not give in to extremist positions that use this excuse to attack our traditions, our culture, our agriculture and livestock and the survival of rural Spain. From here I would like to express my support for the extremist farmers who today are shocked by the abandonment of this government. [[Applauds]] Every law passed here has consequences on people's lives and fixing a problem by creating other and more serious ones is not the best. Don't pervert something we all believed to make it another toll payment to stay in the Moncloa, because their assignments are getting too expensive for us... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Last week, a soulless man sprayed acid on a dog in the Vendrell, in the province of Tarragona, where I come from. I can't understand how there are people these days who enjoy mistreating an animal until they see him die or seriously hurt. I cannot understand it and I believe that most of the people in this House cannot understand it either. Therefore, we would have to ask ourselves several questions. Do we think this can happen in a modern society? Do we think we can legislate so this doesn't happen? I believe that the answer to the second question is yes, because, ladies and gentlemen, violence cannot be a way of life, it cannot be a way of controlling what you think is weaker. We ask all parliamentary groups to unite in the fight against violence, in the fight against ill-treatment and in the fight against cruelty, because moreover, ladies and gentlemen, many of the violence is related to each other and the violence against animals is potentially violent with people. [[Applauds]] Today we will finally approve in this Congress a modification that began in 2015 - not in 2017, but in 2015 - by an ILP of the Observatory Justice and Animal Defense, led by Nuria Menéndez, with the support of 500 000 signatures. It was 500,000 people who asked us to legislate in this way, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the animals stopped being considered things to be considered beings they feel, so that our Civil Code recognizes them as they deserve: with empathy and respect. In addition, this amendment also regulates shared custody in cases of divorce and separation, which are not embargoed and mortgaged, that are not abandoned, that we do not cause them suffering or pain, that they are not used as another tool in gender-based violence and that they are available by will. All this aimed at respecting and protecting them, taking into account their well-being. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, more animal protection and less demagogic, because their speeches are highly demagogic. Those who have no arguments seek to lie directly without modesty and shame, but I will give you some data. We have the unfortunate honour that Spain is one of the countries in Europe where more pets are abandoned. Every five minutes a dog is abandoned, while I speak a dog is abandoned. In addition, animal abuse has increased during the pandemic. However, despite this data, our society has changed; animalistic sensitivity has changed and in recent years many people have strongly rejected this abuse and cruelty to animals. But, in fact, we are not innovators. As has been said before, countries such as Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, France and Portugal - all of them 'highly social communists' - have adopted these legislative amendments. Some accuse us of legislative goodness, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is to legislate with respect and empathy for the needs of the twenty-first century. Of course, it is complicated that you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, who constantly sow hatred and confrontation, can understand what empathy and respect means. [[Applauds]] Obviously, we legislate to protect animals, but we legislate to protect also the people who love them, because sixteen million households in Spain have pets. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment will come out with a large parliamentary majority, the result of political consensus and agreement, because we are here to talk, listen, agree and reach agreements. There are some who have come out here to take their photo or video and hang it on the networks; we are to work for the problems, to work seriously, and we are aware of the responsibilities we have. Ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, you say every week that you work for people, but you vote against, one week yes and another, the measures that help in the day-to-day life of people. Vote against social progress, activities that generate economic activity, protect your health, pensions, minimum wages... Vote against in general all actions that help people every day. But, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, this society has not bought them their false speech in gender policies, in ecological transition, in LGBTI issues, in migrations or in historical memory, nor will it buy them their false speech in animalist policies. You know why? Because this society has demonstrated many times - and lately, during the pandemic, in a strong way - that it is a solidarity, empathetic, respectful society and, as a modern society, a feminist, ecological and increasingly animalistic society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Guaita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW TO AMEND ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF CONSUMER AND TRADITIONAL TRIBUNAL TO THE PRIVATIVE JUDGMENT OF ORIHOLEAL WATER AND PEOPLES OF THEIR MARK AND TO THE COMMUNITY COURT OF THE ROLE OF GRACE OF THE HORTA D'ALDAIA [[ALICANT/ALACANT]] [[PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW TO AMEND ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF THE CONSUDINARY AND TRADITIONAL TRIBUNAL TO THE PRIVATIVE JUDGMENT OF ORIHUELA WATER]] [[ALICANT/ALACANT]] [[AND PEOPLES OF HIS FRAMEWORK]] [[File number 124/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u67	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposed organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, to recognize the character of a customary and traditional court to the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela and peoples of its framework and to the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia. [[Alicante/Alacant]] Mr LópezBas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u68	Thank you, President. First of all, I greet the participants in the plenary session of the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, as well as the various authorities and public offices that accompany us today. Ladies and gentlemen, today the proposal to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary - in particular, Article 19 - to give the Orihuela Private Water Court a traditional customary court rank, something which this House agreed just over two weeks ago. Now, moreover, by virtue of an amendment introduced in the Senate in that proposed reform law, it is a matter of adding a new paragraph to recognize the same condition to the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia. It is fair to say that with this amendment - which, of course, we will support from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - the recognition of these two traditional courts as such is completed, together with the Tribunal de les Aigües de València and the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia. I would like to expressly recall that it was Citizens in the Valencian Courts who urged, in February 2020, to promote this recognition of the Court of Commons, with a motion adopted unanimously that now comes to a good end, so we must all congratulate ourselves. We are faced with old institutions, even more than is officially recognized. In the case of the Private Water Court of Orihuela, its history goes far beyond 1275, with the decree and privilege granted by Alfonso X to the regents of the Vega Baja del Segura so that they could maintain their traditional irrigation systems in their fields and labor lands. If that privilege was formalized at that time, it was because, obviously, there was previously a whole culture of water use that was deemed essential to remain in force. In the case of the Court of the Municipality of Aldaia, there is also the privilege granted by Jaime I in 1268 to the regents of his alquería from the new Christian rule over the Muslim population of the area; a real privilege, therefore, which maintained previous uses and norms in force. In the case of Orihuela, the privilege was thus: 'and guide the waters in such a way that they water and pray as much as they used to in Moorish times, and that they make all the lands water through the stops do they used to take their batch in Moorish times and not by another log'. For its part, in the garden of Aldaia the following privilege was granted: 'what do you have prout antiquitus tempore sarracenorum fieri customary translated from Latin: that you have as it was custom to do since the ancient times of the Saracens. We are therefore faced with millennial institutions that are really the product of custom, one of the sources of law as our legal system recognizes. And, if this is so, it is necessary to recognize legally and formally also that they are, as the Constitution states in its article 125, forms of citizen participation in the Administration of Justice, as are also the popular action and the institution of the jury. But even these institutions, for their own historical relevance and their journey through the centuries, transcend any claim to anchor them to the different ways of organizing themselves politically or territorially from the societies where they have been given. We are faced with institutions that sink their origins in the people themselves and in their relations, as well as in their first economic and social activities by settling in a stable way in a territory. Thus, they are institutions that go beyond the political or territorial perspectives concerned because, as it is accredited, they are even pre-existing to those who recognized them formally and legally from a political power established over such territories and persons. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be short-sighted when it comes to giving due importance to what we are doing today: recognizing institutions that have existed since before present-day Spain, before the former Kingdom of Valencia, before even the Crown of Aragon. We talk about institutions that have their roots in old Al Andalus or even in the Visigothic Kingdom of Toledo, if not before. They have roots as far away and as deep as those of the first farmers who, together with the Mediterranean, in lands of loco today is Valencia, Alicante and Murcia, learned to use the water of the Segura or the Turia to produce food on the land that they worked, to produce food for their fellow citizens and their neighbors at that time. In Citizens we recognize the institutions proper to our historical heritage, all of them. In the case of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, we also welcome you to your full status as customary and traditional courts, according to the legal amendment that culminates today. I would like to express my congratulations to those who have worked so hard to make this day come. Express congratulations to those who perhaps best represent them here today, the holders of both institutions; in the case of the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela, to Don Pedro Mompeán Madrid and, in the case of the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, to its President, Don José Bonet Navarro. It has been a great job and you have come to a good place. Congratulations to all of you for getting it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u69	Thank you very much, Mr LópezBas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u70	Thank you very much, President. There are days when one considers the usefulness of being here, but today I am especially pleased that an initiative introduced by Senator Carles Mulet in the Senate was unanimously approved and that we will finally get to the point that it will be approved. There are ancestral institutions, many of them in the Mediterranean, in Valencia and Murcia, that have resisted the passage of time; and they have resisted it precisely because they are useful. Although not recognized by law, they have been able to exercise their role as a court and their role in distributing justice in rural areas. This is the case of the Tribunal de les Aigües de València, which continues to meet every Thursday at the gates of the cathedral, or the Tribunal de los Hombres Buenos de Murcia. But there are other institutions that also deserve that recognition as customary courts and that is what we are doing here today with the Private Water Court of Orihuela, which already has a first documentation in the middle of the 13th century, or with the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, which is already dated in 1268 with a privilege of Jaume I. I believe that today justice is done and the work that both courts or courts have developed is recognized and therefore I think it is worth congratulating the Senate and Congress because today justice is going to be done; a small justice, but sometimes the important and beautiful thing is working for these small things, for these two courts that regulate the lives of farmers in the Vega de Orihuela or in the Horta d'Aldaia. I would like these institutions, which have come so far and have proved their effectiveness, to be also recognized in the constitutional reform that we have pending in which Compromís has tabled an amendment so that Valencian civil law, which has also regulated the lives of Valencians and Valencians for centuries and centuries, can be recognized as a useful and modern outlaw and that it can continue to regulate our lives as other outlaws do in other territories of the State. He ended by congratulating the members of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia for having pushed us to the public representatives so that, finally, this would get to where it had to go. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I insist that it is an honor for me to defend this small thing, but great for a lot of people from Orihuela and Aldaia. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the representatives of civil society and the Valencian people who are here today. In Unity We can celebrate this gesture of justice with the people of Bajo Segura and l'Horta d'Aldaia and with the people of the world of agriculture who throughout history have been part of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia. These historical legal institutions of the community, finally obtain legal recognition as customary and traditional courts, such as the Tribunal de les Aigües de València or the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia. They are two historic Valencian courts that are finally recognized as capable of delivering justice and managing remedies, and it is recognized that citizenship can exercise popular action and participate in the administration of justice in such courts. The consensus reached shows a commitment to traditional and historical Valencian institutions and support for the regents, who have been able to live together, distribute water and make good use of this collective good. It has been hundreds of years working to settle disputes between regents, foster coexistence, mediate between different interests and weave social ties that have helped us to be who we are. The centuries of existence of these courts make them a jewel of our culture, an important part of our heritage and an element of social cohesion that has come to our day. That is why I would like to take advantage of this intervention to ask us to listen to their demands and to take an example from the philosophy that has guided their work during these years. These traditional courts have for centuries been guarantors of environmentally friendly water use. Today, on the contrary, we are witnessing stupefied by irresponsible water wars that bring nothing but depredation and lead us to suicide. The traditional garden of Bajo Segura or that of Aldaia are millennial and they have come this far because they have managed according to what nature allowed; they have cultivated with nature and not against it. In recent years, traditional regents have been cornered by pollution, aquifer poisoning, water theft, illegal irrigation or untreated wastewater. Anyway, a thousand problems. While the focus is on the Tejo Segura transfer, the traditional irrigation that, in fact, has had to help the transfer crops against their own interests is left out. I say this because the example of how the available water has historically been managed in the traditional garden of Lower Segura or l'Horta d'Aldaia is the one that should be followed today. We are in a climate emergency, precipitation is reduced and aquifers are not recharged. Water wars and confrontation between territories may mean short-term party revenue for some, but they are irresponsible. Today we have alternative sources of water that we must make the most of: purified, recovered, desalinized. In good water management is the sustainable future for our production, our agriculture, our people. It is a matter of doing so that it has been hundreds of years since the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela or the Tribunal del Comuner d'Aldaia: do not enter into confrontations over the use of water and make the most of the resources. In line with the recognition of the rich tradition of Valencian law, in Unity We believe that the next step is to obtain the declaration as an Intangible Heritage of Humanity of these traditional legal institutions, as the other two courts already recognized. And also, when the right stops hindering, get the recovery of another very important element of our heritage: Valencian civil law, the civil law valenciaà, taking care of the very broad institutional consensus and of Valencian civil society; consensus by which many entities have worked tirelessly, among them, the Association of Valencian Jurists. [[applause]] We will continue to work for the recognition, protection and recovery of all that our culture and traditions contribute to advancing rights, justice and sustainability. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mestre Barea has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u74	I begin by welcoming my countrymen from Orihuela who represent the Privativo de Aguas with their president at the head, Don Pedro Mompeán; and at the same time, he greeted the president of the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, Don José Bonet. There may not be legal institutions throughout Europe as unique and popularly known as the already millennial water courts of the Valencian Community and Murcia. These are internationally known among jurists as very effective and exemplary dispute resolution bodies, which explains their persistence over so many years. They compete with the characteristics of genuine social institutions and, from the point of view of their processes, are modern, because they are based on the principles of orality, concentration, speed and economy, which translates into full satisfaction of the constitutional value of justice and contrasts with the lack and slowness of most judicial processes. [[Applauds]] Moreover - and perhaps here is a good part of its success - they continue to enjoy great prestige among the litigants, which translates into strict compliance with and enforcement of sentences. The basic precept that legitimizes the existence and functioning of water courts in the current Spanish legal order is found in article 125 of our Constitution, according to which customary and traditional courts must be considered as forms of citizen participation in the administration of justice, precisely because they consist of persons not specialized in judicial practice. Customary courts are enshrined, under jurisdictional law, as a fully democratic institution from the point of view of justice, as it is one of the few existing legal institutions that allow ordinary and ordinary citizens to participate fully in the administration of justice. In very recent times, this Congress, unanimously of all parliamentary groups, has recognized the historical merits and the right of the Private Water Court of Orihuela to be considered as a traditional and customary court. In the same vein, today we bring this amendment from the Senate to the plenary of the Court of Commons of the Rollet de Gràcia de l ́Horta d ́Aldaia. An important part of the Aldaia Garden is a community of large solera regents in the northern garden of Valencia and it is the waters of the Turia River that water its surface extension, traditionally known as the Rollet de Gràcia or Comuner. The procedure used for the resolution of traditional and customary conflicts always respects the current demanding constitutional framework, that is, respects the rights of individuals and, in particular, the right of defence enshrined in article 24 of our Constitution. Judgments are rendered legally sound, judgements that will have full executive effectiveness as administrative acts that they are. It is therefore clear that water courts are first-class legal and cultural treasures. The existence of these customary courts deserves to be valued as the recovery of a valuable cultural and legal heritage and must be recognized, as have already been the Court of Waters of Valencia and the Council of Good Men of the Garden of Murcia, by Unesco as intangible cultural heritage of humanity. [[Applauds]] Finally, in this proposal for an organic law something has happened which is not usual in this Parliament and which I would like to highlight in conclusion and which has also been made clear by some Members before. All the political groups have agreed with the Commission's opinion, with absolute unanimity, and that is not the case in this Parliament. Today after the communist socialist roller this institution is being overshadowed, and we have recently been reminded by the Constitutional Court on the occasion of the appeals submitted by VOX. It is no longer the representation of the Spanish people, it is the box of crickets where defeat is sought, and never the agreement. An example of yesterday: the control session of every Wednesday seems to this modest Member for a long time a Florentine exercise of sarcasm and interrelated reproaches in which there is never answer the questions, and so the citizen takes politics as a show, as a reality. Parliamentary activity in Congress seems to many citizens to be a remembrance of Big Brother 2. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u75	Thank you very much, Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. My first words are of thanks to all the people who throughout history have been part of their governing bodies of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the Common Court of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia, as well as of special greetings to their presidents, who accompany us to Congress today, and to the authorities of both municipalities, who also accompany us. Thanks to their good doing throughout all these centuries and throughout history, we are here today highlighting how much and good they have done in water management in their respective territories. All the administrations have already manifested themselves - the municipalities, the deputies, the Valencian Courts - and now it is up to us here in Parliament to do justice and also to make history for these important territories of the Spanish uprising. But not only to do justice or history, we are not only talking, therefore, about the privileges granted by King Jaume I or King Alfonso X the Wise, who established the first written norm known to regulate the irrigation of the waters of the Vega Baja del Segura; it is not only, therefore, about finding in yesterday's rules a reason to be talking about these two important courts today or all that has happened throughout history, it is about looking to the future feeling proud of the fact and what remains to be done. Recognitions, therefore, are not only words about the past, but also purposes for the future, and what doubt it is that in the Valencian Community and in the Spanish uprising we have ways to organize and guard the good use of water as in few territories of the world. The Court of the Waters of Valencia, the Council of Men Buenos de Murcia, the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela, the Court of the Comuner and so many other institutions that throughout geography and throughout history have always been taking good care of the affairs of irrigation are a source of pride for those who represent that wonderful land here, in the Congress of Deputies. They are historic jewels respected, protected and now put in value. They are part of our identity signs, they are organs of peace, they are institutions with administrative and jurisdictional authority that have resolved disputes between regents, heirs and others to whom the issue of irrigation and its waters has concerned for centuries. They are an example for future generations, they are institutions that over the centuries have given face to an environmental, cultural, social and economic landscape in our territories; institutions that have made, make and will continue to make in the future compatible respect for the environment and at the same time they are a source of opportunities, job creation, wealth and well-being. In these times when we are debating so much about water uses and water management, it is essential that through the recognition that we are aware of today, we value the commitment of these lands and of the regents precisely with our natural environment, their sustainability and the struggle that unites us all today against climate change, avoiding the abandonment of fields and crops and the desertification that causes so much damage to our ecosystems. This is proposed by the European Green Pact in its objectives. When we talk, therefore, about water policy, when we talk about regulating water uses, we talk about protecting the environment and we also talk about a useful strategy for depopulation, a growing concern for all; we talk, therefore, about the survival of rural Spain. In this sense, from the People's Parliamentary Group we do not understand that the watershed hydrological plans in our country do not include a single water infrastructure, when in addition these infrastructures, many of them of water regulation, are not only important for the regents themselves, but essential to avoid flooding and mitigate the effects of climate events. I would like to give an example of the DANA that devastated Vega Baja, a region that today is the protagonist in this bill. And if we have agreed to recognize the work of the regents throughout history and today, I appeal to us to agree on water policies for the future, that one day in many years there will again be reasons for gratitude and recognition and that we will continue to be proud of the good doing of the regents and farmers of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, to think of regents is to think of men and women who work the land, who care for the land and leave in inheritance to future generations protected, sustainable territories, tradition, customs, identity, pride in fact and opportunities for tomorrow. Recognize the character of a customary and traditional court to the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela and Peoples of its Framework and to the Court of the City... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Azorín Salazar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u78	Thank you very much, President. First, allow me to greet the mayors and representatives of Aldaia and Orihuela. Welcome, welcome. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today this initiative returns to the Congress of Deputies and we again confirm the Socialist Group's favourable vote for the incorporation of the Private Water Court of Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràciade l'Horta d'Aldaia into the customary and traditional courts. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we would not understand anything other than the favourable vote, but less we would understand it as Alicantens and Valencians. My group has already voted in favour of this recognition at regional level, at autonomous level, at state level. As you know, both the Privativo de Aguas de Orihuela and the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia are born of citizen reconciliation, self-government and, above all, social participation. The irrigation began in Roman times and continues with Arab domination, which is when the administration of irrigation and the delivery of justice are implemented. After the conquest of Alfonso X, he respected the privileges of justice and water administration. During its history and especially today, these institutions promote the participation of citizens and constitute true treasures of historical heritage as antiquistic depositories of a local and regional identity relevant to the culture, customs and social cohesion of the areas in which they are established. We can therefore see how a culture of pact and respect for institutions is reflected in these courts. This culture - allow me - seems to have been lost here in Congress. Since the beginning of the legislature, atrocities have been heard and attempts have been made to delegitimize State institutions, especially the Government of Spain, denying their legitimacy and constitutionality. In recent years we have seen how the right and the extreme right have used the verses of Oriolano Miguel Hernández. However, they later forget that Miguel Hernández was sentenced to death in 1940 by the Francoist war council because of his leftist background. [[Applauds]] It is therefore paradoxical and incongruent that you now want to use the language of Miguel Hernández, when you tried to silence his voice in prison until his death. We cannot forget when the People's Party in Madrid City Council removed the verses of the poet Miguel Hernández from the memorial to the victims of the civil war in Almudena. [[Applauds]] On 20 November, after the phalangist tribute in the cemetery where the remains of the Poet Pastor rest, they destroyed the plaque in memory of the four hundred victims of the bombing of the central market of Alicante in 1938. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we call political opportunity; colloquially, hypocrisy. Unlike you, my parliamentary group has a commitment to historical memory, reparation and remembrance of the victims. One example is the change of name from Alicante-Elche airport to Miguel Hernández approved by the socialist government. [[Applauds]] Breaking plates, not thrown into corners, not eliminating verses erase the memory of the struggle for democracy. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, these courts teach us the historical benefits of the pact culture as a structural axis of progress. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is the tool to drive change and social improvement. In relation to this and finally, I want to refer to a phrase that Miguel Hernández wrote to his wife, Josefina, from prison: 'I will never be forgiven by the young men who have put my little or much intelligence, my little or'many heart, of course my two things bigger than all of them together, in the service of the people in a frank and noble way. ' And that is why we are here, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the lives of citizens. Abandon political squawking. It is up to us to put our intelligence and our heart at the service of Spain. Thank you, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Azorín. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u80	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Firstly, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 24/2021 of 2 November on the transposition of European Union directives in the fields of guaranteed bonds, cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings, open data and re-use of public sector information, the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts and broadcasts of radio and television programmes, temporary exemptions from certain imports and supplies, of consumers and for the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u81	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to ask for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 24/2021, which transposes eight Community directives, which concern seven different subjects. Before I set out the content of this rule, I would like to begin by thanking the Ministry of Finance not only for the budgetary procedure, but also all of you, Members of this House, for the great work you have done in the processing of the general budgets of the State. One more year Spain processes the main law, the General State Budgets Act, in time and form; the budgets of a fair recovery that will allow our country to have a roadmap to channel 40 billion euros in investments and 240 billion euros in social spending, a historical record that will benefit everyone, all sectors, all people, all the territories of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, stability, budgets, recovery, prosperity, that is the road map of this government and I thank all of you for your work in the parliamentary process. And today on that line we have to congratulate ourselves on the extraordinary employment data we have had. This is the moment when we have the highest number of members, the highest employment in the history of Spain, according to the official figures we have known today: the largest number of members of Social Security we have ever had, 19.75 million members. [[applause]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the real economy, that is growth, that is the economy that is reaching the families and citizens of our country, and that is the road map that we have in the government. And beyond the normality of the adoption of the general budgets of the State in time, in time and form, I also want to highlight the policy of dialogue, consensus and continuous negotiation that this Government has. We talk to the groups, we come to agreements, we achieve balances and these benefit the general interest, the whole citizenry, and an example of this are these general budgets of the State, which go in line with that idea. These consensuss ultimately benefit the country as a whole, because these general budgets of the State benefit the country as a whole, whatever the activity, whatever the corner of our territory where the citizen is. That is the philosophy with which we have worked and the philosophy with which we have achieved broad consensus and broad support in this House for the general budgets of the State. Therefore, institutional normality, democratic normality, Spain is a stable country and has a government that complies. And that Government that fulfils is the guarantee of a just recovery, prosperity and economic and social recovery within a short period of time for our country. And that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, because we work every day to meet our commitments, we can highlight the record-time vaccination campaign that our country has carried out. A year ago there was no one vaccinated in this country: today there are thirty-eight million people who have the full pattern of vaccination, in record time and a world example, who recognize us outside our borders more easily than we recognize ourselves with, because this is a success of a country, of the whole country, not just of the Government. [[Applauds]] We have also committed ourselves to fair recovery and are working on it, consolidating that economic growth is also accompanied by social policies that will ensure that no one is left behind. Today we have known-we made reference to it a few moments ago - that for nine consecutive months has happened what has never happened in the history of Spain since we have historical series of data: nine consecutive months reducing unemployment. We already have more active workers today than in February 2020, before the pandemic begins, and this is a fact that has to be congratulated on all of us. [[Applauds]] And when we say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not abandoning anyone, we are talking about the ERTEs, which have managed to keep jobs from being destroyed; we are talking about the social shield, which has managed to make people who are most in difficulty to have supplies or not to be discharged from their homes, and we are also talking about the minimum living income, which benefits 800,000 people in our country. That is what it means for the Government not to abandon anyone. And we are working on the economic and productive transformation of the country, and good proof of that is the agreements that we adopted at the last Council of Ministers last Tuesday, which we approved a state-of-the-art health record that will mobilize almost EUR 1500 million up to 2023 in research aimed at creating a health system based on predictive medicine, advanced therapies and artificial intelligence; we also approved last Tuesday EUR 118 million for the autonomous communities to modernize their administrations and also last Tuesday we approved the draft law creating and growing, creating and growing companies, which will greatly facilitate the formation of societies in our country, speeding up administrative procedures and making Spain a country that is easier to invest, easier to grow and easier to create jobs. We are a serious Government, ladies and gentlemen, which is fulfilling its commitments and following up on its initiatives, and in that context it proposed to them the defence of this decree-law. I would like to demand that the Government I have the honour to represent in this rostrum fulfils, and also fulfils, its commitments to the European Union. We are a deeply European government, no one can question this statement, and we are convinced that more Europe is precisely more Spain and better quality of life for our fellow citizens. That is why we face the challenges of the present and the future of Europe's hand. And it is clear that Europe is learning from the mistakes it made during the exit from the financial crisis and is acting with a greater share of solidarity on this occasion. The pandemic has shown us: the centralized purchase of vaccines and Next Generation funds are Europe's best response to this crisis. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the presence of a solid and effective Europe, and that is the model of Europe we want and defend in the Government of Spain. That is why, in addition to promoting coordinated action by the countries of the Union, we also exercise responsibility and incorporate Community directives and legislation into our law, and we do so within the time frame set by our country. That is why this royal decree-law is an example of the militant Europeanism of this government. As I told you at the beginning, this royal decree-law transposes eight directives into seven different subjects, which explains that the norm is divided into seven different books. You know this, let me remind you: both the Constitutional Court and the Council of State validate the possibility of going to a real decree-law to transpose European directives urgently when they are close to the deadline, as is the case, and also validate, they also ratify the legality of it being a real decree-law omnibus, that is, that it affects different subjects, different sectors and that in this case we can transpose them all into a single rule. As regards the specific content of the Decree-Law, the first book transposes Directive 2019/2162 on the issue and public supervision of guaranteed bonds. As honourable Members know, guaranteed bonds are securities issued by credit institutions that are mainly backed by mortgages and public debt. This means that it provides a stable return at very low risk, and that is why the directive allows, proposes and encourages the promotion of this type of issue, in order to try to make credit institutions more liquid and that this liquidity eventually translates into better financing conditions for banks to the market, private individuals and companies. This royal decree-law regulates the system of issuing these bonds, the supervision - which will be carried out in our country by the Banco de España - and, thirdly, the sanctioning regime. The second book incorporates Directive 2019/1160 on the cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings. The rule amends the directives allowing collective investment undertakings and alternative funds to operate cross-border and facilitates access to investment by retail customers, irrespective of the Member State in which they are domiciled and where they intend to invest. It is guaranteed - so to speak - their protection, and therefore the real decree - law introduces measures to coordinate the conditions of fund managers operating on the markets, both internally and across borders; facilitates the marketing of services and investments between Member States; regulates the cessation of marketing, protecting investors, and also regulates the pre-marketing of alternative funds. The third book of this royal decree-law transposes Directive 2019/1024 on open data and re-use of public sector information. To this end, a national law, Law 37/2007, is amended with the aim of promoting transparency, efficiency and citizen participation in economic development and in the norm. The main developments are the inclusion of public commercial companies in their scope, which did not take place until the date, the incorporation of research data within their scope and the recognition of new documentation requirements to facilitate their re-use, which should generally be free of charge. The fourth book deals with copyright and related rights and transposes two directives: Directive 2019/789, on rules and the exercise of copyright and related rights, and Directive 2019/799, on copyright and rights in the digital single market. These two rules have a dual purpose, which we try to transpose into Spanish law and national law: the first, to improve secure Internet access to content protected by intellectual property rights, educational, scientific, radio, television, European works, in short, cultural heritage, and the second end of the rule is to ensure the correct and equitable functioning of the copyright market in the digital environment, which for years has had no regulation. In this context, the Royal Decree-Law regulates online access to all Union radio broadcasts and to information and own production programmes for broadcasts and channels. The most significant novelty of this paragraph is the change in the regulation of service providers sharing online content. By default, a license system is established that will be managed individually by publishers, unless these publishers voluntarily and expressly choose to do so through collective management entities. It is also stipulated that the authors of the news may receive part of that remuneration, and once again such compensation may be freely negotiated through the contract of employment or any other contractual modality. In the event that the author chooses to do so, it will also be possible to go to collective management entities. Transparency obligations are also incorporated on the part of platforms, including the duty to inform press editors about changes in algorithms when they affect the presentation of content in the media. Finally, we also stress that it is prohibited to link these rights management agreements to others that have nothing to do with the aggregation of content and that the Spanish jurisdiction is maintained to deal with any conflict that may arise between the parties. The fifth book of the Royal Decree-Law, ladies and gentlemen, transposes Directive 2021/1159, which refers to temporary exemptions from imports and supplies in response to the pandemic. In essence, this paragraph aims to extend the VAT exemption to the purchases of goods and services by the European Union in response to the pandemic, to COVID-19, provided that these imported profits are not used to make onerous deliveries. The sixth book incorporates Directive 2019/2161, which deals with Union consumer protection rules. The objective of this paragraph is to protect consumers in the digital environment by regulating unfair business practices and corrective measures for consumers. It establishes new information requirements and also modifies the sanctioning regime to update the amounts and allow the General Administration of the State to sanction infringements at the national level, as well as to grant consumer associations the status of interested parties in general interest proceedings. The seventh and final book, ladies and gentlemen, transposes Directive 2019/1161 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that public procurement of road vehicles takes into account the energy impact and environmental impact of these contracts. It defines the contracts to which they will apply - for example, public transport, waste collection or parcel transport or postal distribution - and also establishes a minimum percentage of purchases of clean vehicles at national level between 2 August 2021 and 31 December 2030, distinguishing between light and heavy vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you that this government is fulfilling its commitments to our community partners. Our agenda is part of the new European consensus which is also governing the axes of action in Europe: fair ecological transition, digitisation, social cohesion and equality between men and women. The European agenda coincides with the agenda of this government. And that new consensus has replaced austerity with solidarity; nothing has to do with the exit from the financial crisis with which we are going to have from the health crisis caused by COVID. We have changed austerity for solidarity. Europe has changed its course and the Government of Spain has been there to push all EU partners to turn solidarity into their axis of action. [[Applauds]] As you have seen, many of the directives that we are transposing today are an example of this consensus, which focuses on economic, productive transformation, respect for the environment and the protection of citizens and their rights. It is also a social consensus, there is an immense majority of Spaniards who, regardless of their ideology or vote, believe that the State must protect citizens in a broad sense when both individual and collective adversities arrive. And that consensus is what we feel involved in. We want the institutions to protect citizens, we want there to be a public safety network, we want all Spaniards to know that the public will be there when they have difficulties. That is the goal we have from the Government, contributing to the general interest and the general well-being of the citizenry. We would like to see this second major modernisation of Spain, which is already here - and the job creation data that we have seen today - accompanied by the extension of rights, more social cohesion, more territorial cohesion. It is a great consensus in our country and I, ladies and gentlemen, simply ask that this great citizen consensus also become a great consensus in this House to validate this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. You have endorsed an excessive preamble of autobomb at the beginning of your speech, in which you have told us of the success of the State's general budgets, of labour issues, of vaccination, of fair recovery and of not knowing how many more things, including a false self-proclaim of seriousness. As far as employment data are concerned, I would ask you to explain them to the young Spaniards: the European record for unemployment. [[The lady]] I invite you to come to Asturias because, with today's data, of which you have congratulated yourself, Asturias is a community in which unemployment has risen, Minister. Do you think an Asturian Member has reason to congratulate him today? None. In any case, apart from the publication - of which I do not believe a single word - I thank you for the effort to explain the content of this royal decree-law, which responds to the need to transpose several European directives in different areas. The breadth and complexity of the text adopted in the Council of Ministers... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u85	... and the diversity of the transposition measures make it very difficult to summarize the content, which in the first of his books devotes a large part - through eight broad titles - to the issuance and public supervision of guaranteed bonds. This has socio-economic relevance because it is a directive that constitutes one of the pillars that will put an end to the existing Mortgage Market Regulation Act, which will be replaced - if the Courts so decide - by the secured bonds law, whose preliminary draft has already been subject to the procedure of public hearing and will collect a unified regime for mortgage bills and bonds, territorial bills and internationalization bills, in line with European regulations and in order to correct the current regulatory dispersion, which affects, without going further, a question of great relevance, such as mortgage bills, which cover the mortgage market... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u87	... with a balance of more than 200 billion euros in Spain. Both the transposition of the directive and the future law on guaranteed bonds aim to increase investor protection and the financial capacity of the economy, and this very broad set of measures is therefore relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law - clearly from those in the omnibus category - contains, among other things that I would like to point out because it seems to me to be relevant, a third book, on open acts and the re-use of public sector information, also very extensive, which is currently governed by Law 37/2007, on the re-use of public sector information, the object of which is the basic regulation of the legal regime applicable to the re-use of documents prepared or kept by public administrations. This is a matter of growing importance and the directive allows Spain to update legislation which has been somewhat out of date since its adoption 14 years ago. Mr. Bolaños, so far this is a royal decree-law in which I did not detect glues for its validation, but when we move towards the sixth book, there are evident features of invasion of autonomous powers in the field of consumption, which are reflected in the wording of article 52, which affects the General Law for the Defense of Consumers and Users and other complementary laws. On the other hand, the incorporation of a new section on sanctioning procedures, which deals with the autonomous communities in their powers in the field of consumption, is an invitation to conflict with the State, inexplicably, because this seemed to be an issue which was overcome both by its regulation, within the rules of administrative procedure, and by the remedies brought before the courts at the time, which allowed for the establishment of favourable criteria for the autonomous communities, which, with this new regulation, again suffer an involution in favour of the State administration which is likely to end before the Constitutional Court. In short, Minister, what could be a real decree-law without reproach ends up becoming a serious subject of doubt. That is the risk of legislating through this sudden path to which the Council of Ministers has taken pleasure by supplanting the main role of the General Courts, and greater risk when very different and in some cases unrelated subjects are intermixed in the text. You were calling for consensus. I will not join; I will vote against validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u89	Thank you. Egun on. In this mixture, which for us is incomprehensible, of eight rules of such a different sign and theme that contains this royal omnibus decree, I will stop at one of them, that of the transposition of the European Copyright Directive, because it is an important and serious issue and because, as has come to this Congress, the transposition of this directive means leaving authors, journalists, photographers, in a situation of total vulnerability. Copyright, ladies and gentlemen, is a social right, and not recognizing it in the digital sphere is a serious step backwards. Talent must be protected, and that is also done by protecting copyright, and this transposition does not. There are three conditions necessary for the protection of these rights: the irrevocability of copyright, compulsory collective management and a legally established fee for the authors, measures totally necessary to protect the authors and also to protect the children from the major technological platforms. This affects writers, filmmakers, translators, journalists, plastic artists, screenwriters, visual artists... the whole great cultural universe that cannot be left to the dawn of the interests of the big platforms. I therefore announce that we are going to vote for this royal omnibus decree, this mix of regulations, to be used as a bill to include these and other necessary measures and to ensure that transposition effectively serves the protection of copyright. We also call for each aspect of this royal omnibus decree to be dealt with in its corresponding place, in its corresponding Commission, and in the subject to which I am referring, of course, in the Committee on Culture, because if there is nothing missing from this transposition of the European standard, ladies and gentlemen, it is of inspiration and cultural soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u91	Thank you, President. [[The Lord]] Good morning, everyone. Good morning, minister. By the letter put to him by the previous representatives and by which I will continue to put him on behalf of the Basque Group, it seems that what he has said in relation to the budgets - it is in other cases - that we talk to the groups and we come to agreements, is not a reality with regard to this decree-law whose validation today is the subject of debate, because it seems that it has not been talked to the groups at all. Therefore, that is the first criticism. The second one. You said that it is a government that complies with the European Union. Neither. Those of us who are going to comply will be the parliamentary groups abstaining in their case to allow the European directive to be transposed because you are running late. Otherwise - you say: we are going to transpose the directive in time - the formula or the use of the decree-law would not be justified if it were not for urgency, and urgency justifies it by delaying the transposition duties. We are therefore going to be the parliamentary groups who, out of responsibility to the European institutions and to give way to that necessary transposition, we are going to do so. But that's not the case. And thirdly, as far as form is concerned, what is happening to us is that it brings us here a transposition of eight directives that change seven laws and that is not only limited to the transposition of those directives that you say, because they also incorporate a number of final and additional provisions that change a lot of laws: the regulation of mortgage securities, the Civil Code, the Royal Decree-Law 19/2018 on payment services and other urgent financial measures or the consolidated text of the Competition Law. What we are asking of you is that you actually speak with parliamentary groups on all matters and that you do not really use this formula of the decree-law in excess; something that should be exceptional, you are doing it ordinary and routine, and it should not be so. With the three minutes left, I'd like to... You have been talking for twenty minutes and the parliamentary groups have five minutes to be able to set a stand and defend; therefore, our parliamentary group wants more time on something that is so complex to be able to position us. We will therefore ask that it be treated as a bill so that we can, of course, have that time necessary to be able to analyse the aspects in depth. If we were to ask him not to remain at the table again, as on other occasions these kinds of petitions are remaining: we ask that they be treated as a bill, but then they do not materialize. We would like to talk about two issues that have already been discussed. Firstly, on copyright, we advocate for the protection of authors also in the digital single market through compulsory collective management, because it is a fair way to respect the rights of creators and this royal decree-law does not do so. Secondly, another issue that has also been called for: various amendments are being made to the Consumer and User Defence Act and other complementary laws, with significant changes in the powers around the sanctioning power that we do not share at all, because it attributes these sanctioning powers to the State in a broad way, with the consequent disabling of the autonomous administrations and thus distorting the existing division of jurisdiction; we cannot share that. We will abstain from liability, indeed, with the institutions of the European Union, but we ask that it be treated as a bill and you, as the head of the government, ask that it really be dealt with swiftly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u92	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that both the times of this sitting and the agenda are the ones determined by the Board of Spokesmen. The times have been determined unanimously and with the understanding by all the spokespersons - all the spokespersons - of all the groups. For the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u93	Thank you, President. Mr. Bolaños, if I read the title of the royal decree-law, I'm running out of time for the subjects you're dealing with, so I'm going to be very schematic. First of all, we do not think it right to use these channels to transpose nothing less than eight directives; but, well, to the point. The most important subjects for us and those that give me time here to deal with are, firstly, open data; secondly, copyright; and, thirdly, consumer and user rights. With regard to open data, we have always advocated the need for more fluidity between the data held by private companies and those held by the Administration, as this could help the Public Administration to assess public policies if we could often access data that arise from private-sector research and, in addition, sharing the data of the Public Administration would often help private companies to fine-tune further in terms of conclusions drawn from public entities that yield interesting data. We already support, at the time, in the Committee on Science, Innovation and Universities, the non-legislative proposal for the improvement of the publication of public administration data and voted against it. It is true that what Citizens are being shot down many times, then Europe demands. Save time. Give us a hard time. But in this case, we think they're on the right track. With respect to copyright and copyright. We, as a liberal party, have always defended the need to protect and promote creative talent, as well as to reward and properly recognize the authors. In this sense, there is one issue that worries us: the arbitrariness involved in the current drafting of the law on caricatures and mockery by subjectivity and lack of clear indicators of when a caricature is really a copy may be likely to be a caricature. There the border is a little diffuse and could amputate freedom of expression in some ways. The higher the degree in all these areas of legal certainty and the more we reduce arbitrariness, the better. We, in the debate on the Copyright Directive 2019/799, have argued that platforms are also responsible for respecting copyright. In this sense, the digital world has to be very similar to analog. On the other hand, another of the issues that we have promoted in Citizens, which brings this directive and by which, which I have not said, we will support the whole royal decree, although then we proceed to its processing as a bill, are the measures to end the geoblocking. What is this? The restriction that prevents users, that on the network could otherwise, but that, depending on the state in which we are located, they can access or not, although here they remain a little against. For example, in this sense, the Government has done the opposite of the demand of the Squerra lords, in a sort of law of defense of the language - which reminds me of an Italian of the 1930s -: the doubling is going to be absolutely obliged in some matters. Look, let's see if we're going to meet Indiana Jones and the stellar loss or what Braveheart, instead of William Wallace, is called Wifred the Velloso, that these people make us a 'Mogambo' with the folds, which I wouldn't miss at all. This directive goes just the opposite of what the nationalists once again want to impose. On the other hand, in the area of consumers and users, we support all measures that give greater transparency and clarify the jungle, which is often digital commerce. We also believe that measures that aspire to avoid the use of bots and algorithms to trap the market can be quite effective. There, we also bet, and we have told Minister Garzón, about the figure of the Internet observatory. We believe that, and that is why we have put an amendment to the budgets to provide it with more resources to be able to tackle and clarify the digital market in Spain and to give greater security to consumers. Finally, and this does not serve as a precedent, I thank you for the courage in the choice you have taken in the relationship between news editors and Internet aggregators. Freedom of choice is the way forward, because freedom in matters of market, copyright, creation and one's relationship with another must always be the guide. So there, I congratulate you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. If I may, I begin, Minister, by the intervention of Mr Guillermo Díaz. Don't worry, gentlemen of Citizens, don't worry, that when we translate into Catalan we do it right, we're not like you. The subconscious betrays you. You think that we would do what you are doing, that you politically translate the message from Catalonia to Spain in a very different way. [[Applauds]] In any case, Minister - let us go to what we are going to - simply comment on two issues. Budgets have been processed in time; not all European directives are being transposed in time. An important effort is being made but it is not yet enough. Second question. The omnibus laws themselves, even if they are legal, have many doubts as to the need to bring together different subjects in a single law. But of course, your government has already set aside the omnibus laws, which seems to you to be a child's play; now what you pose is the real omnibus decree-law, which is still much worse. What they propose in this royal decree-law, the transposition of directives, to us seems reasonable; the content and how they do it does not seem to us at all reasonable. In some subjects there is an absolutely competitive invasion of book, as it can be in the sixth book precisely. In any case, as we have the commitment of the majority groups that support the Government that it is going to be treated as a draft law, our initial failure has transformed it into a respectful abstention; respectful of the European institutions and respectful of transposition. But in any case, we are going to amend different aspects. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u96	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u97	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister. 'The transposition into time of directives... is a fundamental objective...' which is given high political value because of its role in measuring the effectiveness and credibility of the Member States'. This is said in the explanatory statement of the royal decree-law. The question is: Where is the effectiveness and how is the credibility of the Kingdom of Spain, which transposes seven directives whose deadline has already expired? It justifies the Government's delay in the fact that in recent years there have been general elections, there has been a government in office, there has been a pandemic... The European Union has made it clear on many occasions that the internal situation of a State does not justify non-compliance with Union law. And I say to you, if you want to transpose you can transpose well and in the right time. The Government also justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law as an instrument of transposition because it has been endorsed by the Constitutional Court and the Council of State, but there are seven directives that if they had been implemented in their functions and had been implemented quickly, we would not now be in an emergency situation. The statement of reasons explains the economic consequences of non-compliance, citing a recent conviction of the Kingdom of Spain. And then it is said: Faced with the gravity of the consequences of further delaying the transposition of the directives, recourse is made to the royal decree-law. Are they only afraid of coercive fines, lump sums? Is that all it's about? The letters of formal notice have been issued and will withdraw the fine, but will not withdraw the lump sums. And where are the rights of citizens? The explanatory statement does not refer to these rights that are violated by late transposition, because the principle of direct effect and the principle of State responsibility cost a great deal to compensate for all such damage. The Member States of the European Union are obliged to transpose in time and correctly not only because they are European states, but because they are obliged to do so. Translating not only means adopting a rule, but transposing it must be done correctly. Otherwise, remedies may also be brought for non-compliance, which may also entail fines, and this again affects the effectiveness and credibility of the Kingdom of Spain, a State which is unable to comply with its own commitments. Because remedies for non-compliance are not presented only because they do not transpose a directive in time or because they mistranspose it; they are presented for non-compliance with any rule of law of the European Union, and this includes the enforcement of judgments of the General Court of the European Union. In conclusion, please do not state in your explanatory statement that Spain has consistently met the transposition objectives. Simply look at the European Commission's page and you will see the list of non-compliances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u98	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u99	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. This is not going as planned, Minister. Nor is it that I pay much attention to myself, but when I do, I explain to you that this is not coming out as you had planned. I must make a small mention of my colleague's comment, because I do not know if you had been warned that the times have been - yes, by a majority or by unanimity of the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau - restricted. Perhaps they had not told you, but you will understand that it is difficult enough to try to position yourself on eight directives so that, on top of it, the minister is 20 minutes away from explaining it. I think it's more about that than it was about anything else, but it can be a matter of simple ignorance. In any case, as you have already made a review of the directives, it remains for me to say three or four things. First, let's vote no. Secondly, we are going to do so because they have not been agreed, there has been no prior dialogue, the actual decree-law provided for in article 86 of the Constitution, as its own Constitutional Court has repeatedly said, is not a sufficient and adequate instrument to transpose these kinds of directives. It is not appropriate that it should also be a bus, that is, from the guaranteed bonds to the green energy vehicles, through the rights of actors, related rights and, in particular, something I am going to refer to. In your transposition of the directive on consumption, you do not make a transposition; you use it to reformulate all the legislation. And I warn you now: we believe that there are serious grounds for unconstitutionality, and if you do not respect your own Constitution yourself, we are wrong, because you already know that it is not our text and that it is not our model. We want a state of our own, but as long as we don't, we will defend those powers that so gracefully gave us constitutionally and statutoryly in everything that should be defended. Therefore, the sanctioning power that the State is arrogated has no basis and does not fit into those two texts. But it is that, in addition, a bill was planned that the ministry itself dealt with at the sectoral consumption tables, and the autonomous communities of what they were aware of was that it was being processed. In fact, the Catalan Consumer Agency made some comments to this bill. Have you been answered? Not yet. The answer was the transposition of the directive. If this is a government that really poses an executive function through consensus with a legislature through dialogue, something has not been understood, or consensus or dialogue, because what is evident is that the adequacy of the transposition of directives must be that, transposition of directives, and not an opportunity used to re-centralize and change the competences and their distribution. I'm on my way. I have professionally devoted myself to copyright and issues of re-use of public information, and we would have been able to agree, although in copyright, technological giants have not been faced with enough energy and I believe that there is a lack of defence for important authors and creators, but we could have talked about it. What interests us to learn from this sitting is that when one of the eight directives is unacceptable, our vote will be accordingly and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u100	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Master Moliner.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u101	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister, for your briefing. It has already been said here that those who have preceded me in the interventions, that the extension of the title of this royal decree - which, of course, we will also save ourselves reading - already anticipates the dimension of its content. The homnibus o'cajón de sastre' initiative occupies more than 160 pages of BOE in which all kinds of legislative texts are modified. With a book-format structure, no more than eight European directives are transposed. In addition, its additional and final provisions amend business and payment services issues, the Civil Code or the consolidated text of the Competition Law, which we overlook as if it were practically nothing, but the reality is that it has a lot of content. I would not like to go deeply into the debate on the correct use of the legislative technique of the Royal Decree-Law, which we already know is absolutely exceptional and its necessity and urgency must be argued, because the truth, according to what the minister has argued, is that there seems to be no doubt that we have to do so for the time limits we are moving. Indeed, fines require the use of certain techniques, it is not that they directly motivate transposition, but they do force us to operate in this way. Therefore, in our group we will also support the validation of this royal decree-law, but we will also support its processing as a bill. It cannot be otherwise when we face a text of this dimension that needs to be reviewed by the legislature through parliamentary debate. There are aspects of it that need to be clarified and improved - some of them have already been mentioned here - and during the parliamentary process we understand that this is how we can respond adequately to the demands that have already been expressed by some associations or representatives of civil society on specific issues. In particular, we will have time to stop at the above-mentioned copyright rights, of course, because they will have to be guaranteed. Similarly, we will have to resolve those consumption issues in which we may have certain discrepancies. Moving a little ahead with certain arguments, I would like to ask your right-wing colleagues, in some way, that restriction in expressing their disagreement with transposition through this legislative technique, because while it is true that it is used in this exceptional way, it is you who have traditionally failed most in transposing it. In this sense, to provide some data: in April 2017, when they had already been ruling for more than five years, it turns out that they had to transpose about eighty directives, which is practically nothing. In fact, it is not worth talking about the inheritance received, because we are talking about five directives of 2013, twenty-three of 2014, eighteenth of 2015, twenty-eight of 2016 and three of 2017. So, of course, the example of effectiveness will not come from that party. It will take me the time to talk about that famous Sixth Book and the subject of consumption, which, while it has been possible to see here the most disparate part, little has been said about the protection that this new standard and all these great advantages that it has, since important new developments are introduced. First, the legislation is updated to adapt it to new practices that are supposed to be harmful to consumers and users and are considered unfair, such as the resale of tickets using bots, covert advertising on social networks, false reviews, etc. Secondly, users' rights in e-commerce are updated, requiring that the information be absolutely complete, or as far as possible, with regard to the sale of products. And, indeed, the sanctioning regime is being modified, where these sanctioning powers are conferred for the first time. Let us hope that a favourable agreement can be reached in the process of the bill and that we will take into account the moment at which we meet and all that encompasses. Simply, yes to the validation of this royal decree-law and yes to its processing as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u102	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u103	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, good morning. Since Sánchez arrived in Moncloa in 2018 through the motion of censorship Rajoy has been beating all records regarding the use of the figure of decree-laws. Only between 2018 and 2019 has used this instrument forty-two times. Do you know what Mr. Sánchez was saying to Rajoy from this very rostrum when he was in the opposition? The then president who had used the decree-law sixty-four times in three years was censured. Mr Bolaños - I am addressing you -, this was recriminating your boss to the previous president. Do you know how many decree-laws you've had in less than two years? Eighty-five; eighty-five, Mr. Bolaños. It brings here the transposition of eight Community directives through this decree-law with the excuse of their expiry and the imposition of a fine without going through the previous parliamentary debate, stealing from the General Courts their role. I remind you that the Constitutional Court has already accused its chief of legislating on the basis of decrees to avoid the courts. They do not have enough to politicize justice and divide the members of the Constitutional Court with their comrades of the People's Party and the Communists of Podemos, but now, with the excessive use of this instrument, they also interfere in the Legislative Power, which makes them a despotic and absolutist regime. [[Applauds]] Do you believe, Mr Bolaños, that eight directives should be transposed into a decree-law without going through the previous parliamentary debate? Look, this royal decree is tremendously arduous and tedious. I'll give you an example. Article 72 of the Royal Decree speaks of works of visual art in the public domain and states that any material resulting from an act of reproduction of that work shall not be subject to intellectual property rights unless the material resulting from that act of reproduction is original to the extent that it is an intellectual creation of its author. Or what is the same: the Contracting Party to the first part shall be considered the Contracting Party to the first part. [[Laughter]] Couldn't it have been expressed in Paladin Roman? Thus, Mr Bolaños, it is very difficult to legislate and they are stealing legislative action from this House. And it is that this legislative coctelera that have brought us here today, Mr Bolaños, speaks of multiple matters, each, if I may, of its father and mother - and other spokespersons have commented on it -: copyright on radio and television; digital copyright; open data; cross-border investments; ecological vehicles; exemptions in the COVID tax; consumers; guaranteed bonds. Allow me to highlight the most relevant in what I have time left. On open data, it does not state whether the Government is going to open the Commercial Register as a high-value data, which is currently closed and available to private companies. On copyright, the most serious thing is that it includes censorship and the shutdown of live broadcasts, as it threatens the activity of streamers, and leaves platforms like YouTube and other social networks to the mercy of the mainstream media, because such interruption of services will do so without any prior judicial guarantee. Moreover, in order to detect it they will include control robots by what is called algorithmic censorship, because now the norm no longer treats them as intermediaries, but as responsible for the content they distribute. Here you can see the hand of the lobbies and the great media to eliminate the free competition that allows the Internet. With regard to consumers, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, that ministry of nothingness, may restrict practices such as unauthorized home sales visits, known as cold doors. Very serious infringements are also established, with fines of up to one million euros or eight times the profits obtained, for the alleged offender and the closure of establishments for a period of five years, being able to hold the manager liable. In short, it does not comply with the proper processes of transparency, public consultation, parliamentary debate and impact assessments; on the contrary, what will generate legal uncertainty in the sectors concerned and society as a whole. Therefore, we ask you to use it as a bill. You, Mr Bolaños, enjoy powers granted by the people, that is, limited powers which, however, you are not fulfilling. Decrees like this, without going through the previous parliamentary debate, show that, if the Government is not limited, man is not free. As you legislate and expand, freedom is contracted. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u104	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u105	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Mr Bolaños, Minister, is that you have committed two disrespects to this House today: the first - we were counting on it - is to bring in a royal decree which speaks of so many different subjects and which deserved a detailed analysis - apart from all that is lacking when a royal decree is being dealt with - but the second was that which you did here live, which is to submit us to eight minutes of electoral rallies, which did not come to light, without the Presidency calling you to the question and with a speech which has nothing to do with the gallimacies that you are presenting to Parliament today. In addition, at that time you could have devoted a few minutes or seconds to telling us about your encroachment, your pride, why you oppose the formulation of a pandemic law, when recognized and prestigious lawyers from this country are in favor. You've had the trouble of spending ten minutes doing a rally and not getting into the bottom of it. The first disrespect, to which the rest of the groups have referred, is that you bring here today another step, another use and abuse of the royal decree to legislate, a legislative technique that we all know is exceptional and that you have become routine. Let me tell you that that is disrespecting this House, that is disrespecting Parliament and the legislative power, with a real omnibus decree in which everything fits and seems to be worth everything. You cancel the legislative power, this government is nullifying Parliament, undermining the ability of the General Courts to act, and that is very serious, Minister of the Presidency. It is a royal decree in which eight directives are transposed, seven matters which have nothing to do with one another - here it has been said - which affects half a dozen ministries - six ministries are affected by this royal decree - and which amends about twenty laws. It is a real barbarity that you bring this royal decree here, even though it is justified that the European directives are after putting them as quickly as possible. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes affirmative gestures]] Yes, Mrs Montero, but not everything is worth it, because you have been ruling for three years now - three years ruling - and these directives could have accelerated them. For example, you have your legislative agenda paralyzed - and we will speak another day -. You are on something else, you are at the election rallies at the Congress of Deputies, ministers of government. There are eight directives that have nothing to do with it. I am not going to go into the bottom of them, but I do want to list them so that the citizens who listen to us know: supervision of guaranteed bonds; cross-border distribution of collective investment organisations; use of open data and re-use of public sector information; exercise of copyright, which has been named here, in which we are in favour of legal certainty for authors and publishers. We are in favour, Mr Bolaños, of almost all the decrees, without changing a single coma. Why do you use this mechanism instead of having done so with what it was? Temporary exemptions from imports as a result of COVID; consumer protection; and the promotion of energy-efficient vehicles. By the way, they leave out alternative fuel vehicles, an industry that has a lot of weight in the future of Spain. Finally, Minister, as I said, we are in favour of the vast majority of decrees. In others, we have nuances, we can talk, so we are in favour of it being treated as a bill, because this Parliament has to express itself. You cannot steal the capacity and legal certainty of this Parliament from, for example, the mandatory reports that you fail to request as a result of this legislative process. We therefore ask the rest of the groups to say that it is enough, let us say it is enough for this roll of government that wants to pass over Parliament, that wants to silence Parliament. Let us tell you enough, because then processing the bills means that the dream of the righteous sleeps and that the deadlines for amendments are extended without delay and therefore are not effective. In spite of that, we will be in favour of it being treated as a bill to try to improve the text. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u106	Thank you. [[Pause.-A lady from the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u107	Thank you, President. Mr Revuelta, the legislative sterility of VOX is only comparable to the fervor of the applause given to its rapporteurs. I think they dedicate them very strongly when they come down because they fear that, with the ex-abrupts they say in this rostrum, they will not be able to applaud when they return to their seats. [[Applauds]] You are the reactionaries of all life, but, look, you will have before the democrats of all life. [[Applauds]] If they didn't silence us with the force of arms, they'll never do it with the word in this Chamber. Keep that in mind. The real decree that concerns us - as the Minister and the rapporteurs have done very well - contains the transposition of a number of European directives that we should speed up: that of guaranteed bonds and cross-border distribution of funds; that of copyright and related rights in the single digital market; that of improving and modernising consumer protection rules in the European Union and the consumer sanctioning regime. It is true, it is an extensive royal decree, as extensive as necessary. That is why the Government has brought us to its validation today. All these rules have a common denominator: to strengthen and harmonize our legislation and system with the European framework. It was clearly not an easy task, but certainly any Europeanist in this House - whatever his vision and his project for Spain - should be in favour of deepening our legislative roots in the common European project, because this of Europeanism is like vaccinations: either you are or you are against it. There are no half inks. You can't be with Orban In the morning and in the afternoon say you're a Europeanist, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. And we will have time, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss and amend, if necessary, these transpositions into the procedure as a draft law, because we are a serious country, we are a crucial country for the European project and we have a responsibility to demonstrate that commitment in time and form; as the minister said, to set an example before our European partners. Because our Europe - the Union - is the fruit of the exercise of the commitment and responsibility of many and very different people. It was born from the confrontation of ideas and not from the armed confrontation. In these times - in Spain too - it seems that the different should only attize. The agreement between different is more durable, more solid, more significant than among similar ones. Today, more than a dozen parties will exercise that responsibility in this House, from the difference, with the view placed only on the common good, from positions found, but also from the encounter. He writes Don Quixote in the letter addressed to Sancho as governor of the Barataria Island that 'ingratitude is the daughter of pride and one of the greatest sins known'. Therefore, my gratitude and that of the Socialist Group to all those who are going to make this validation possible today. And they will allow me - and hence the Cervantine quote - to tell the Citizens' Group and its spokesman as well. With Mr Díaz, I am separated from political abysses, but sometimes we find small overlaps shared and in which we do not hesitate to seek the common good and to agree - despite feelings and despite differences of opinion and project, because of this, ladies and gentlemen - that no Spanish or Spanish lose a single opportunity. This will make a better country, dignified every day the parliamentary political task. This will always find bridges between the abysses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u108	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2021, OF 8 NOVEMBER, ADAPTING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE REGULATORY LAW ON LOCAL PROCEEDINGS APPROVED BY THE REAL DECRETO LEGISLATIVE 2/2004, OF 5 MARCH, TO THE RECENT JURISDICTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL WITH REGARD TO THE TAX ON THE INCREASING OF VALUE OF THE TERMS OF URBAN NATURALITY. [[File number 130/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u109	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 26/2021 of 8 November, adapting the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court regarding the tax on the increase in the value of urban land. To present the decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Indeed, I appear before the plenary to request support for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 26/2021, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 8 November. As your ladies and gentlemen know - because this is a very well-known issue for all of us here - this royal decree has been drawn up to remedy a normative vacuum that is generated by the ruling of the Constitutional Court 182/2021, a judgment of 26 October last, on the determination of the calculation of the tax base in the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, which you know and we all know popularly as the surplus-value tax. That resolution declared unconstitutional and null three articles of the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulation Act, relating to the determination of such a tax base, which precluded the liquidation, verification, collection and revision of the tax that was no longer payable. A question, ladies and gentlemen, which we can all understand is relevant to the municipalities of our country. With the adoption of this rule, which I am presenting to you today for validation, the Government is once again acting diligently, understanding the importance of this issue to municipalities and their public finances. In fact, in record time, a tax reform has been developed that I would like to remind you that you have the approval of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. It is a rule whose application has a multiple benefit: first, for the municipalities themselves, because it allows them to establish the enforceability of this tax and to give certainty about the resources with which they will count, avoiding a possible deterioration of the public services; second, ladies and gentlemen, for the citizens, because it corresponds the tax base to the economic capacity of each taxpayer, which can also opt for two taxation systems. But in addition to resolving a situation that could result in a significant decrease in the income of the municipalities that charge this tax, it also integrates the doctrine contained in two previous rulings of the High Court of 2017 and 2019 on the same figure. 2017, which had already declared taxation unconstitutional in situations where there was no increase in value in the transfer of assets, and 2019, which established that the tax share could not exceed the capital increase actually obtained by that taxpayer. In view of this situation, the Government has acted - as I said - as a matter of urgency and, therefore, seeking greater guarantees for the municipalities concerned. In fact, with this reform, the Government restores the tax liability, avoids the risk of municipalities not suffering a decrease in their resources, and ensures that the Constitutional rulings do not lead to a deterioration of the public services provided by the municipalities to their neighbours. In short, the nature of the tax that - it is worth clarifying - the Constitutional Court never discussed is maintained. And I would particularly like to highlight this point, the tax on increasing the value of urban land is fully constitutional. Having said that, I should like to explain to you in more detail the amendments we have made to this rule. First, the applicable percentages on the value of the land are replaced to determine the tax base of the tax. This is replaced by maximum coefficients established on the basis of the number of years between the purchase and the sale itself. The coefficients are to be updated annually through rules with a legal rank, taking into account, for example, the evolution of the prices of the sales that have been made; updates that can be carried out through the budget laws themselves of each year. Ladies and gentlemen, with the measure we have managed to ensure that the coefficients are at all times adjusted to the reality of the market, which is one of the requirements of the High Court that is contemplated in the judgment. In addition, the municipalities will be able to lower the soil's cadastral values according to their degree of updating, with a maximum of 15 %. In this way, we also ensure that the tax is adapted to the real estate of each municipality and to the municipalities' own competences. I would say that the fundamental thing is that from now on the tax base of the tax will be the result of multiplying the cadastral value of the soil at the time of the deposition by coefficients approved by the municipalities, which in no case will be able to exceed the limits set out in the royal decree-law. The second relevant novelty is that two possible methods of calculating the tax are laid down. On the one hand, there is the method I have just explained to you, and on the other hand, the Royal Decree-Law also envisages the possibility of each particular taxpayer taxing on the basis of the actual surplus value obtained at the time of the transfer of the good, because, as you know, the gain is determined by the difference between the value of the land transfer and the value of the acquisition, that is, if the taxpayer proves that the surplus value If the real probability is lower than the resultant with the objective estimation method, it will be able to apply the actual that comes out of those own calculations. In the case of transmissions of immovable property in which there is land and construction, the actual value of the land shall be equal to the difference between the selling price and the purchase price, after applying the proportion of the land's cadastral value over the total cadastral value. These calculations can be checked by the municipalities themselves. In the event that, at the request of the taxpayer, it is found that no surplus value has been obtained, the Royal Decree-Law provides that the transmission shall not be subject to taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, with this rule we guarantee that no taxpayer will pay the tax if it does not achieve a real benefit when transferring the property. Nor shall transactions in which the contribution to be paid exceeds the surplus value obtained by the taxable person be subject to the payment of the tax. Another novelty of the rule is that capital gains generated in less than a year will also be taxed, since they are operations that can be speculative in nature. The Royal Decree-Law also includes cooperation between tax administrations, both from autonomous communities and also from local entities, in order to better manage the tax, and agreements on collaboration or exchange of tax information could be signed in order to achieve a greater fine-tuning in order to approximate these calculations. But this rule also grants the municipalities that have established the tax - which, as you know, they are not all - a period of six months to amend the tax ordinances that regulate this tax, and adapt them to the provisions of the Royal Decree-Law. Until then, the legal framework laid down in the regulation itself will apply, taking into account the new maximum coefficients established by this law for the determination of the tax base. Finally, it also regulates the jurisdictional type, by which the Royal Decree-Law is issued, the regulatory clearance for development and enforcement and the entry into force respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, so far the content of the rule that I am putting before you, but before I conclude my speech and move on to that of the parliamentary groups, I would also like to anticipate some issues that have arisen in this debate, and I am sure that they will make some speakers echo that. For example, the creation of the council compensation fund, which some political forces claim. First of all, I would like to recall that when the first ruling of the Constitutional Court was known, the People's Party ruled, and this party did not then demand any kind of compensation fund. Secondly, it is curious that some parties that all day accuse us of inflicting severe tax cuts on taxpayers, come quickly to ask this same government to restore the surplus-value tax and to establish compensation for the period that has not been in force. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, did you not maintain the theory that tax collection increases when you lower taxes? What happens at this time or at specific times where tax figures might have some adjustment? For I would say that there is a paradox that mayors who considered the method of calculating the tax to be unjust and even confiscatory until the adoption of this rule now ask the Government of Spain to compensate them for what they are going to stop collecting with the measures taken to correct the shortcomings of the tax they previously complained about. That's why I'm going to try to answer with some data, because out of the eight thousand Spanish municipalities, half, i.e. less than four thousand, collect for the concept of surplus value. The rest does not apply this tax figure. Of these four thousand, more than 75 % do not receive 3 % of the tax in relation to their current income. That is why I always tell you that in order to be able to talk about the situation of reality we have to rely on realistic and rigorous diagnoses, so that priorities can be sorted out and therefore respond to the needs that citizens really have. In fact, the adoption of this royal decree-law joins the whole set of measures that we have put in place with a clear municipalist vocation. The total financing of the municipalities for the year 2022 amounts to EUR 22 122 million, an increase of 11 % over the budget of 2021. Therefore, next year local entities will receive the largest deliveries on account of their history. We also address in the Budgets Act measures for financial problems that some municipalities may have, such as changing the financial conditions of loans. Similarly, in 2022 - you know - tax rules do not exist or are suspended. We have also given support to local authorities for the provision of urban transport service, public transport, through direct grants of EUR 434 million. Similarly, we have created an extraordinary financing mechanism that will allow certain municipalities to cancel their outstanding obligations prior to 1 July 2021. Debts from local entities with public creditors have been cancelled through funding from the Local Entities Financing Fund, amounting to EUR 305 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish this speech by transferring what I was saying at the beginning. The Government acts with maximum speed and avoids the economic damage that the Constitutional Court's ruling could have caused in the municipal coffers. The Ministry of Finance has legislated in record time and only a couple of weeks have passed between the knowledge of the ruling of the Constitutional Court - not its communication, which was four days before the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law- and the entry into force of this very rule. Therefore, the economic impact in these days has been really minimal. That is why from the rostrum today I would like to place you in support of the validation of this rule, because it benefits us all, municipalities and citizens, resolving the situation created by the decision of the Constitutional Court. I also sincerely believe that this new amendment is moving towards a fairer formulation of the tax figure itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u111	Thank you. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Spain Reina. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u112	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court declared the well-known surplus-value tax unconstitutional. The Government then had two options: one was to compensate local entities for the loss of revenue, approximately EUR 25 billion, or to design a new tax to replace the surplus-value tax. The Government, as we have seen, has chosen the second option in record time. The Spanish do not understand how to lower the VAT on masks or to lower electricity taxes takes months, and to create a new tax is enough for a weekend. We, the People's Parliamentary Group, are against it, mainly for two reasons. First of all, for the forms. A new tax cannot be created by royal decree rather than by a bill; to the extent that the essence of the tax itself is modified, we can state that it is a new tax. How will it affect citizens? How does it affect collection? Nothing is known, because it is by royal decree not subject to prior consultation or mandatory to accompany it with the relevant reports. Look, even the technicians at Hacienda Gestha doubt the constitutionality of this reform. And, secondly, from the bottom. There is a capital gain and, therefore, already taxed in the IRPF, so this tax does not cease to be a double taxation as defined. The ruling of the Constitutional Court would have been a great opportunity, Minister, to have abolished this tax and to face a new model of local funding; but you, as always with the slightest chance, are once again raising taxes on the Spanish. I will answer you with regard to the judgment of the year 2017. That ruling caused the Rajoy Government, after consultation with the FEMP, to agree on a text for its debate in the General Courts and compensation to each municipality for the losses it had with the above-mentioned reform, as was already the case in the reform of the economic activity tax, which, by the way, also eliminated the People's Party. But look, after the motion of censure, Pedro Sánchez, who would not sleep quietly with Podemos in the government, agrees with Pablo Iglesias, in the so-called General Budgets Agreement of the State for 2019, in its point 9.4 - abro quotes - that in the face of the situation of legal insecurity in which local governments and citizens remain after the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2017, it must be resolved as soon as possible. The modification of the tax implies a considerable decrease in municipal income. While the real solution goes through a new funding system, immediate, short-term compensation is needed to address the economic impact that municipalities have to face. That is, as you did nothing, the judgment of the year 2019 came and, after three years of inactivity by the Government, the Constitutional Court again in 2021 made a new judgment, perhaps tired of seeing it fail to comply with its judgment. Mrs Montero, chapuza after chapuza: lack of foresight, uncertainty in municipalities and insecurity in citizens. You have set out to make life impossible for everyone, for the police, for the civil servants, for the farmers, for the farmers, for the transport sector, for the automobile sector, for the self-employed, and for the municipalities as well. Minister, do you remember when you wanted to stay with the rest of the town halls? Neighbor savings you said were voluntary disposals. He brought here a decree-law and you have the honor of being one of the few ministers to whom a decree-law has been laid; it was his great defeat and the great victory of municipalism. Then the remnants could already be used. Do you remember the VAT refund for the year 2017? Seven hundred million that he has to return to the city halls. And the minister said that that money was not going to return it because it no longer existed, and it began to rain sentences and it has to return VAT; but no, the reality is that it has not yet returned it. It should have made an imminent return and not conditional on the approval of the General Budgets of the State. Mrs. Montero, do you do what you sign? Because he signed with Podemos an immediate compensation for the municipalities. Do you see how we always end up talking about the government of lying? Look, you boast so much that tax collection is at its peak and that tax revenues are going to rise by 14%, be brave and create a compensation fund for municipalities. Do you know what a city council is? I have been a councillor for many years at Malaga City Hall and I know that when the neighbor doesn't have to eat, he goes to the city hall; when the neighbor doesn't have a job, although it's not the municipality's competence, he goes to the city hall; when he doesn't have to pay the tremendous bill for the light - by the way, you said it was going to be this year equal to or less than the year 2018, another lie - he also goes to the city hall; and when he doesn't have a house, he goes to the city hall. Minister, it is noted that you have never been councillor of the city council. The municipalities are still waiting for the €4 billion unanimously approved by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces or participation in European funds; it is noted that President Abel Caballero is bent on the interests of the government, and that he is more concerned about his Christmas lights than about defending the municipalities. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, the price of light is now five times that of a year ago and Spain's poverty rate is the highest in the European Union, the worst in the last 30 years, 20%. With a socialist and communist government, we double the Eurozone average. Inflation costs families EUR 9 billion and yesterday we knew how the OECD sinks Spain's economic forecasts in more than two points. You said you weren't going to leave anyone behind and what you're not going to leave is no one standing, because inflation and taxes are impoverishing the Spaniards. All these neighbors who can't make it to the end of the month, end up in town halls. And I ask you: where is the compensation to the municipalities, the one you signed with Podemos? Because the Federation, the FEMP, says that the solution is to set up a fund of EUR 1.5 million in the budgets of 2022, but you, in Congress, have not included that fund. What a shame, what a piece of paper for Mr. Abel Knight. Be brave and include this fund, by amendment in the Senate, because, minister, there is no compensation fund for the municipalities or for the neighbors who suffer in their meats the rise of light, the shopping basket, gas, butane, diesel, insurance premiums, pension plans, sugary drinks VAT, registration tax, fees. There is no money for them, but there is money for their partners who want to break Spain and for their new friends in Bildu. I will not remind you of the vetoes that have been lifted so that pools and other billion-dollar investments can be built for the Frankenstein government. The Frankenstein government always finds money under the stones, but for the municipalities not, and for the families only more taxes. Look, they're so obsessed with raising taxes that even the CEO warns them that the increase in tax pressure on companies is already damaging competitiveness. There is 10.7% of the GDP of fiscal pressure on companies in Spain compared to 10% of the EU average. Madam Minister, you must enable a compensation device for the cases of the municipalities when they are damaged by this legal change, in addition to compensating for the losses generated in the past. This is the opinion of the FEMP, Minister, who is increasingly feeling less and less represented by the socialist Abel Caballero. Mrs. Montero, don't turn your back on the city halls. In three and a half years you haven't brought in a bill, and now you're slipping away with a royal decree that you know is not the right thing to do. He seems to be slippery about what the FEMP says because, of course, he has not included in the budgets a compensation fund so that the municipalities can continue to provide public services normally. Finally, Minister, you have lost a golden opportunity to abolish this tax, compensate the municipalities and face a new model of local funding. Of course, municipalism is orphaned with you. Listen to the mayors, who need resources to care for the neighbors, who are the weakest link in the chain, and you have only thought of removing the remnants and not returning the VAT. Minister, on a weekend you said at a PSOE rally: this is what I fix on Monday. How the socialists applauded! How socialists like taxes! [[Applauds]] Wow, Minister. On a weekend you created a tax by decree. Too bad it's not so fast to create a compensation fund to lower taxes like the VAT on masks, hairdressers. Too bad it wasn't so fast to return VAT to municipalities and communities. As my colleague said, it is enough of real decree-laws; it is enough of taxes, Mrs Montero. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u113	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke on a position-setting basis by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Finance and Public Service. I am surprised that you do not use the reply to a turn against, as it has just been produced. But anyway. I will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law that portrays the government's drift towards conflict. The ruling of the Constitutional Court, which provoked a recent seism of collection by the declaration of unconstitutionality in the application of what is popularly known as surplus value, provided a very good opportunity for the Government to commit a very good normative work in favour of municipalism. It could also have resolved the financial and economic difficulties for local authorities through compensation. But no, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has chosen to promote policy measures that bring to the Congress of Deputies in record time, and it does so in an atrocious way that augurs serious problems in form and substance, as Mrs Reina has quite rightly explained, with which I also share the argument on double taxation for taxpayers, who will have to pay when there is a property gain, through the income tax on natural persons, and starting from this regulation also by the taxable fact. Once again the collection innovation rides to gallop in Spain from empty pockets; emptied by the government of Pedro Sánchez. In short, the shortcut involved in the processing of this royal decree-law reflects another missed opportunity to make things right on a matter of such importance to society and to local estates. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u116	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to say is that it took a long time to react to the judgment of 2017, gentlemen of the PP, and of 2019, where it was already pointed out the unconstitutionality of some of the precepts of the law that is being reformed today, Regulation of Local Finances. But it must also be said that although the last sentence was not clear as to the effects, this royal decree - which is indeed necessary - fills these gaps in a way that, although it does not satisfy many municipalities, has been cautious at least in the constitutionality of retroactive effects. But it has problems, so we believe that it should be treated later as a bill. Just outline two issues. The coefficient table that is established as a bottom-up and bottom-up shuttle lacks mathematical and legal logic and, although it is economically justified by the evolution of the market in recent years, it will be necessary to change it every year, and all municipalities also to force it by zones, because the market is very unequal and, despite this freedom that the municipalities have, it will be very complicated. In other words, for these people, who have to pay taxes, it is going to create confusion and it should be simplified. Another issue is what happens to investments. A simple example. Someone buys an old house of 80 000 euros, makes an internal reform of another 80,000; if after five or six years he wants to sell it for 150 000, with losses, his entire investment will have an impact as a property increase proportional to the value of the soil. This is another point of possible unconstitutionality for moving away from the motivation of the taxable fact. There are more things that should be clarified, if not corrected. I believe that it should be treated as a bill or seek an amendment or amendment to another law that affects the financing of local finances. Many municipalities in Cantabria have, of course, already been affected in a significant way and need to be corrected. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u117	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything has been credited, it is what the minister enjoys by raising taxes; all Spain was able to see the satisfaction with which it announced it. It is clear that this rise in taxes is part of the socialist political ideal, and they also show that they enjoy rising taxes. What people are wondering is why when the light came up in such an excessive way you did not come out and said: in two days we will solve this. They do not do so because, of course, raising taxes is very easy, it is apparent that anyone is able to raise taxes, but correcting the anomaly situations that produce all citizens, that is more complicated. Trying to lower prices for all the products that are being fired, that's already more complicated. Coming here to say that taxes are paid is easy, and of course it is believed that a tax reduction involves more economic activity, that has been done in Spanish communities, it has been done by Spanish governments and is therefore accredited. In addition to that, you are once again taking advantage of the decree-law, as has already been said here, you are abusing it and, of course, in this particular case you are also spraying unconstitutionality, as it shows how you have put the bandage before the wound. What interests you, as I say, solve it quickly, at an excessive speed. On the other hand, he has wanted to tell us what he has done in the budget for 2022 to cover also those issues he is not doing, such as compensating the municipalities for the debt they have accumulated and to which he has not yet given up and which he promised with the COVID plan. Therefore, we are talking about taxes that in the end they are doing to undermine the economic capacity of all Spaniards who, together with high inflation and the price rise that is taking place in all organs, are getting Spanish citizens to be poorer at this time than they were a year ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is presenting us with a royal decree-law which is intended to be a response to the declaration of unconstitutionality of the municipal surplus, trying to offer alternatives to this situation which is causing serious problems in the municipalities. The Executive's proposals go beyond regulating non-subjection in the event of no increase in value, as well as establishing an alternative method of calculation at the request of the taxpayer. To our parliamentary group, ladies and gentlemen, it does not seem bad, and even less so in view of the situation of legal vacuum and legal insecurity in which taxpayers would remain if this rule were not validated. But nothing new under the sun, because we know that Mr. Sánchez has made the decree a way to govern and that he has no scruple in bringing validations to the edge of the abyss, convinced that boundary situations can twist his arm to this Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the use of the legal figure of the Royal Decree-Law to modify taxes is more than dubious from the legal point of view. Liberals like low taxes, yes, but we like the law more than the rule of law to safeguard and guarantee our rights and freedoms. I would understand if we were told that the figure of the royal decree-law is used because of urgency and necessity, but it is that, gentlemen of the government, the first sentence that called into question the constitutionality of the method of calculation of surplus value was in 2017, and since then neither you nor the People's Party have wanted nor dared to do anything. In the end, the problems are left to rot and there is nothing left but to legislate urgently and by decree, but without a doubt considerably limiting the work of Parliament and leaving this legislative amendment to the brink of illegality and subject to challenge. In Citizens we have been drawing attention to this issue for some time. We did it in past legislatures and we did it in this one. Without going any further, this same year, in April, a non-law proposal was passed that citizens presented to the Finance Commission urging the government to bring to Congress a bill that would change this tax, but they did not want to do so. Still, we again insisted on a written question to the ministry and have been warning for a long time. We can expect a high level of litigation and problems because we have not legislated and changed things in time. What will happen to taxpayers who have already met a tax whose calculation method has been considered unconstitutional? And with those who had a pending claim? How will the municipalities be compensated for all the returns that must be made? Moreover, this Government, which, in the face of the problems, knows only how to raise taxes, establishes in a novel way that transactions are taxed in which the period of ownership of the property has been less than one year and that so far they were not taxed. A new novelty, plus taxes. What do the Spanish Liberals propose? We propose the abolition of this surplus-value tax with the correlative increase in the participation of local entities in the collection of state taxes that tax the surplus-values of real property, both in IRPF and in corporation tax. The surplus-value tax is a tax that deepens the double taxation that taxpayers suffer when they transmit land, as they already pay taxes by IRPF for property gain. In addition, State budgets could compensate the municipalities for the returns to be made as a result of the repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court and for the loss of collection. Ladies and gentlemen, of the rattlesnake that involved the rejection of its decree to seize the remnants of the municipalities, the Government decided to avenge itself by denying a fund to the municipalities that had been claiming for a long time and that continue to claim to meet the expenses caused by the pandemic. There are no additional funds in the budgets for 2022, recently approved in the Congress of Deputies, to assist the municipalities. Zero; what's said soon!Last year, $5 billion was promised at a loss, but this fund was never created. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot plunge taxpayers and municipalities into another legal vacuum and into absolute legal uncertainty. What is proposed in this royal decree-law admits our abstention, but little more, because it sins of lack of ambition and abuse of the patch. In addition, we will ask for processing as a bill, we will vote in favour, because we believe that we can improve it with liberal initiatives, that the only thing they seek is not to stifle taxpayers and help municipalities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if I may too, I shall begin with Mrs Carolina Spain. Madam Spain, when you criticize the government's budgetary arrangements with the different parliamentary groups and talk about some amendments, trying to ridicule them, do you want me to remind you of the amendments that the People's Party agreed on in the 2018 budget? Do you want me to remind you of the amendments that the People's Party agreed with our parliamentary group? Man, let's be a little strict. [[Applauds]] Minister, this is late, and you know it; and so does the People's Party. The first sentence is of May 2017, the People's Party was a year in the government and did nothing; the Socialist and United Party We can have it for three years, and until the third sentence, which no longer left any room for manoeuvre, has not reacted. We will support the validation of this royal decree-law, not because we strictly like its content, but because it cannot be left in a void of legal insecurity and of the impossibility of liquidating this tax to the municipalities. In fact, I confess to you that we will support processing as a bill, although we did not think it would be necessary. Firstly, because there would be an immediate commitment to a local tax law, which is where the reform of this tax really needs to be addressed. Secondly - I ask the House on behalf of all the municipalities - if it has to be dealt with as a bill, let it be quick, because if it is not going to generate such legal uncertainty in the liquidations that will be practiced by the municipalities that resources will not be known to them. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u123	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u124	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are landing the adaptation of the Local Finance Regulatory Law to the case law of the Constitutional Court to change the logic of capital gains tax. The tax is to be calculated by means of an objective criterion, such as the cadastre, to a calculation of the taxable base which includes the reality of the present real estate market and it is also allowed for the taxable person to choose to show that he does not give in to the taxable fact, the increase in the value of the land. I have doubts that many judges, including the judges of the Constitutional Court, have really understood what the surplus-value tax is, but we agree that any taxation must respect the principle of economic capacity of article 31 of the Constitution and not tax unenriched real estate transactions. This royal decree - it has already been said - is necessary, but it is late. What hypocrisy is this that adapts to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court? Since long before 2017, citizens and municipalities have had to deal with hundreds of judgements from courts and higher courts - the Supreme - and since 2017 from the Constitution itself. This I say to you that, as a consistorial lawyer of the Barcelona Assembly, I have conducted dozens of judgments on surplus value. The Government has lived in a bubble and has been negligent. What do you know about the damage and insecurity that have caused millions of citizens? What do you know about the efforts of all municipalities to address the legal challenge of the case law on surplus value, an essential source of income? The municipalities will have 40% less revenue by 2022 for this purpose and a huge increase in management expenditure. With this royal decree-law they are late. In addition, they have approved it behind the backs of the local world and of the municipalist entities and, above all, they forget to solve the economic part of the drunkard. In accordance with the principle of financial sufficiency, an extraordinary fund is missing to compensate for the loss of income from the municipalities and a permanent fund for compensation to the municipalities for the reduction of income is also missing due to the new method of determining the taxable base. Finally, there is a centralization in the field of local finances which forgets the territorial realities and which is perfectly possible to reverse in the current legal framework. For all this, we announce the presentation of initiatives to respond to these issues.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u125	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u127	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u128	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, good afternoon. The Constitutional Court's ruling annulling the method of calculating capital gains tax has had a very direct impact on municipalism and its accounts. This meant that for a few days many of the municipalities were wrong in passing the fiscal ordinances needed to make the next year's budget. Therefore, the adoption of this royal decree was necessary to give legal certainty, although it does not cease to seem like a patch. It is clear that this royal decree does not solve the problems of financing the municipalities, which are structural, and even more so after this pandemic, with exhausted municipal coffers after providing the most basic services to their people at such difficult times. Let's point out a fact that seems important to us. With the data of the liquidation of 2019 the Catalan municipalities have entered 590 million euros for this tax and in the whole of the Spanish State approximately 2675 million, coming to represent in some cases more than 10% of the collection of current revenues in the municipal budget, representing the second tax in collection, behind the IBI. As we said, with this royal decree a patch is put on, but the historical structural problems of municipal finances are not fixed. We believe that many municipalities will see their revenues reduced with this decree, some of them up to 30%. That is why we call for this bill to be used as a bill to introduce some amendments to remedy this situation. First of all, we call for the creation of an extraordinary fund - it is already a minister that you have responded to this request by appealing to the PP, but we also call for it - of EUR 1500 million to compensate for the loss of income that the new method of calculating capital gains tax entails. We should also mention here that with this system there is no new method of calculation, but that two methods of calculation are established and, therefore, there is greater flexibility for the taxpayer, in the end, to choose which of the two methods is most beneficial to him. This extraordinary fund would alleviate both those transmissions made during the fifteen days of transition in which tax cannot be legally imposed and imposed on taxpayers, and above all those previous transmissions which were pending liquidation and which could not be effected and those which had not acquired a firm character and which would have to be returned to taxpayers on the basis of the Constitutional ruling. Secondly, we call for the creation of a permanent compensation fund in favour of the municipalities for the possible reduction of income generated by the new method of determining the tax base, taking into account compliance with the existing legislation as regards the principle of financial adequacy of the municipalities. In short, minister, the years are passing and the chronic problem of municipal finances is not solved. As a municipalist party that we are, born just over ninety years ago to a few weeks of municipal elections that we win, we will remain committed to those public administrations that are closest to the trench, to the citizens on foot, the municipalities, and that is that when republican municipalism is strong, the country advances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u129	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u130	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. Pending the debate, if not final, at least decisive on next year's tax reform, the Government is once again forced to take containment measures in tax matters, and I am well aware of containment measures, since the most pressing works demanded by an unbalanced fiscal building, i.e. unjust and in serious danger of ruin, have hardly been undertaken. This time, it is a substantial change in the Local Finance Regulatory Act, a law that had the dubious honour of being one of the last executive acts of the Aznar Government, prior to its ignominious departure from the Moncloa. Well, this law is now being reformed in the light of a recent Constitutional Court ruling, as has already been said. This is certainly the third time in four years that the High Court has shown itself to criticise the application of the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, which is one of the most important sources of financing of our municipalities, with a revenue capacity of around EUR 25 billion. However, it has been the obvious legal vacuum created by the last sentence, which has forced the Government to act swiftly and quickly to avoid major evils. Rapidity, because the sentence was published on 26 October - said Minister Montero herself - and it was the Council of Ministers on 8 November that approved the royal decree, that is, just fourteen days between the two dates. And diligence also, no doubt, as the new design that already operates for the determination of the taxable bases moves in the direction that the Constitutional Court demanded at the time, whose judgment established that the previous drafting of the legal text - I quote literally - violates the principle of economic capacity as a criterion of taxation set out in article 31.1 of our Constitution. In addition, it does so by offering a dual method of calculation, either by real surplus value or by objective system, which allows the taxpayer to apply the result that suits him best, while clearly conforming to the principle of progressiveness claimed by the Court, as well as to the reality of the real estate market itself. But if this is not enough, a safeguard rule is introduced precisely to prevent taxation on this tax from, in any case, being contrary to the principle of economic capacity. In addition, the municipalities will now have competence to lower the cadastral value or coefficients, which will also help to make the tax reflect the specific real estate reality of each area. I would also like to highlight, among other positive developments in this reform, measures aimed at preventing - or at least discouraging - speculative sales of urban land, a phenomenon that refers us to the worst of ball culture, to that pagan faith in the brick that has proliferated so much in our country in recent decades. In this sense, the new text penalizes short-term transactions, while disposals from the sixth year of possession will bear less taxes than the previous rule. That is to say, Mrs Reina Spain, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is an effective tax reduction. How can you say, Mrs. Spain Queen, that this is a tax increase when act followed you yourself claim a compensation fund? Let's see, Mrs. Spain Queen, what are we left with? If you lower taxes and then ask for a compensation fund, you are recognizing that you lower taxes, not that you have risen. Please, be at least consistent with yourself, I don't say with your party anymore, with yourself, Queen Spain. This leads us to reflect on how to finance our local finances that goes beyond the consequences of this reform itself because, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed in this House profusely the crucial role that the Spanish municipalities have played in this long and already pandemic crisis, a role whose relevance does not diminish, I would say on the contrary. Municipalities have demonstrated an amazing ability to respond quickly to the specific complications that each of them has had to face and, therefore, are our best guarantee for a dignified and egalitarian exit from this crisis. But there has also been a worrying lack of financial autonomy on the part of these same municipalities, as the FEMP itself has repeatedly complained. I still make efforts to forget that royal decree-law of the past I believe that fourteen months, minister, that was not validated; the second not validated in all democracy. Then, the obvious tensions between municipalities overwhelmed by the flood of help calls, on the one hand, and a public treasury faced with a fall in tax revenues, on the other, made a compromise impossible. In our parliamentary group we believe that this solution is still pending, and it will no longer be merely a compromise solution, as was also claimed by the Member of Esquerra. We must ensure that local finances have a minimum level of sufficiency within a fiscal architecture that establishes a clear correspondence between tax resources and powers allocated to the different administrations. This will undoubtedly be one of the biggest challenges we will face next year as part of the fiscal reform announced by the Government. I do not say that your resolution closes the debate...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u131	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u132	... but it will certainly facilitate it decisively. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u133	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u134	Thank you, President. Minister, you're already rubbing your hands with a new tax, huh? And it is a new tax because, after the ruling of the Constitutional Court - as has already been said here - of October 2021, no city council of Spain can continue to charge the tax on the municipal surplus, which has been declared unconstitutional. And in that lies his urgent and urgent need, in which they cannot continue to charge this tax to the Spaniards. That's the only truth. [[Applauds]] In addition, the Government again lies when it mentions article 86 of the Constitution, which allows it to issue decree-laws in cases of extraordinary and urgent need. You have ruled Spain since 2018. In 2017 the Constitutional Court has already warned that the liquidation of this tax violates the principle of economic capacity and was unconstitutional in some cases, an issue that again confirms in 2019 with another second judgment. The municipalities continued to collect the surplus-value tax from the Spaniards when they did not obtain surplus-values. Paradoxic, isn't it? But the self-proclaiming government of social justice, instead of changing the law from the 2019 ruling, prefers to leave the matter on the stand and continue to unfairly levy taxes on the Spaniards. And the pandemic is coming and since March 2020 compatriots have begun to die from the damn Chinese virus and thousands of Spaniards saw how, in addition to suffering for the loss of a mother, a father or a child, they had to pay this tax when they received their inheritance, an unconstitutional and unjust tax, because the minister did not move her conscience and did not want to modify the law adapting it to the rulings of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] At that time, your Government had only time to lock up the Spaniards, declare states of covert emergency, perpetual states of alarm, which have also been declared unconstitutional.Now you explain why you have consented to thousands of Spaniards having unduly paid taxes during two years of suffering, misery and poverty when the urgent need was to avoid it. [[Applauds]] Look, this Member who speaks to her, two months after having her seat, asked the Government in writing on 5 February 2020: does the Government intend to repeal once and for all Article 107.4 of the Local Finance Regulation Act in order to adapt it to the rulings of the Constitutional Court - we already had two rulings - and you answered two months later saying that you would. [[Show a document]] [[Show another document]] What they told us was when. [[Applauds]] So this parliamentary group drafted a bill in May 2020 to lower the surplus-value tax and adapt it to those judgments, and we gave them the work done, Minister. They just had to copy and paste our bill. And the work that VOX did was there, so you would have avoided unfair taxes to tens of thousands of Spaniards during these two years of pandemic, taxes that, as the court points out, will not be able to claim or recover. Let's see how you explain this to all of Spain, that due to the negligence and inaction of the government you unconstitutionally paid it cannot be recovered. Doesn't this blush to you? [[Applauds]] So, look, this robbery in the citizens' pocket you won't be able to fix it on a weekend one night after a Congress. Do you remember? I'll fix the surplus-value thing on Monday. What a shame, really! [[Applauds]] And all that shows is that who cares about the pocket of the Spaniards and works for legal certainty is the VOX Parliamentary Group. I've already made it clear to you. You, on the other hand, advance only in your sectarian and ideological ends to create legal insecurity, insecurity on the streets and to deceive and elude the Spaniards. Finally, I will tell you that of course we will vote no to your royal decree. Finally, if the rule is adopted, the leadership of my parliamentary group has given me the privilege of announcing to you that, as it cannot be otherwise, this royal decree will be appealed to the Constitutional Court. And I give him two strokes: the figure of the royal decree-law is not the appropriate one to legislate in tax matters when it is intended to define an essential element of the tax, as is the case that occupies us, the tax base; and article 133 of the Constitution establishes the reservation of law from the perspective of the tax power. So, using the words that you addressed to me a few days ago in this House, I say to you that the Spaniards, seeing you and seeing me, will already be clear who defends you and who lies to you or who deceives you. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u135	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u136	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we submit to validation the Royal Decree-Law 26/2021 to respond to the ruling of the Constitutional Court that was issued on 26 October. On 26 October, articles 101 and 107 of the Local Finance Act were removed from the legal system. Two days later, on 28 October, FEMP called on the Government to take prompt and urgent action to adopt a rule providing legal certainty to municipalities and taxpayers. And that's exactly what the government has done in eight days, exactly in eight days. [[Applauds]] Quite the contrary, Mrs. Spain - what tips I sell that you do not have -, of what happened in 2017. Because the first ruling of the Constitutional Court on these articles came in May 2017 and you waited a year, until June 2018, to bring it to this Congress. And you know what you guys had? The vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because before we put the councils to the partisan interest. That's what happened in 2017! [[Applauds]] Madam Spain and gentlemen of VOX, when I hear you talk about the municipalities...! I will tell you what you voted against the municipalities just a week ago. They voted against an increase in the share of state taxes of 2191 million for municipalities; their vote, Mrs Spain and Mrs Cañizares, was no. It is 2191 million, practically the total collection of surplus value throughout our country, and they have voted against it. But how are they going to have credibility to talk about compensation funds here today if just a week ago they voted against the biggest increase in the share of the state's taxes on municipalities? You see how they have no credibility when they speak, Mrs. Spain? [[Applauds]] Madam Spain, they voted against the VAT compensation for the municipalities, 1227 million of which are in the budgets; they voted against, Mrs Spain. They voted against 2050 million participation in European funds for municipalities seven days ago; they voted against, Mrs Spain. Therefore, they are neither concerned nor concerned with the municipalities. I repeat again that you are not loyal to the government, that you are not loyal to our municipalities, but that you are loyal to the municipalities that you govern and that need this change! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a rule that favours taxpayers, not municipalities. I've heard some speakers talk about tax hikes, but it's not a tax hike. This is not a new tax, it is to adapt the determination of the taxable base to the economic capacity of the taxpayer to comply with article 31 of the Constitution. And do you know who's going to be the beneficiaries? Well, the taxpayers. Previously they had a unique and mandatory system and there was a presumption that there was an increase, but now taxpayers can choose the condition that most benefits them, and if there is no increase it is not taxed. Where's the tax hike, Your Honor? Where is he? It's just that there's no tax hike. [[Rumors]] I want to end by talking about local funding, because I cannot resist after listening to the People's Parliamentary Group. Of course we have to be ambitious and talk about local funding! We have to talk about local funding linked indissolubly to a competition reform of local administrations, exactly the opposite of what you did with the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, with which you left to the municipalities the limited, limited and narrow competences. [[Applauds]] That is why we need to talk about local funding, but we need to talk about local funding linked to the competition reform of local administrations. And I agree with Mr Guijarro that this must be the agenda of this legislature: to enter into that local funding linked to competition reform. Therefore, we will approve the validation of this royal decree-law not only because it is good for the municipalities, but also because it is good for all taxpayers in terms of their economic capacity and the fiscal justice that has to be in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2021 OF 8 NOVEMBER, OF SOCIAL SECURITY MEASURES AND OTHER SOCIAL SUPPORT TAX MEASURES. [[File number 130/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u137	We proceed to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 25/2021 of 8 November of measures in the field of social security and other fiscal measures of social support. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u138	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I appear before you to report on the Royal Decree-Law on Social Security Measures and Other Social Support Measures, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November. The main measure contained in this royal decree-law is the authorisation of an additional transfer to balance the impact of the Social Security accounts derived from COVID-19 in the amount of EUR 5012 million. My purpose in this appearance is, as Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, to explain to your ladies and gentlemen the reasons for this transfer. As your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, following scrupulously recommendation No. 1 of the Toledo Pact, which you adopted in this House with an overwhelming majority, we are fully immersed in the process of separating the sources of funding from Social Security. The key to this process is the gradual assumption of so-called non-contributory non-contributory social security expenses by the State. It is an essential transparency measure for citizens, which will make it possible to clearly visualize the state of the accounts of the pension system and the convergence towards the financial balance of social security at the end of the legislature. As I have heard repeatedly, this is one of the fundamental blocks of the package with which we are modernising the pension system. In this intervention I will try to explain how this transfer is consistent with this process of separation of sources. Social security is financed, on the one hand, by social contributions and, on the other, by transfers and loans from the State. The reasonable thing, and what the process of separating sources is going to achieve, is that these sources of funding correspond to the nature of social security expenditure items. In short, it is a question of the revenue from contributions being allocated solely and exclusively to the contributory pension system and not to finance expenditure outside it. For its part, non-contributory benefits managed by Social Security must be financed through transfers from the State General Budgets. The fact that this basic principle has not been complied with in the past has had harmful consequences, including the discharge of the Social Security Reserve Fund, the so-called pension fund, to cover expenses outside the pension system. If the segregation of these improper expenses had been achieved earlier, this situation would not have been achieved with the reserve fund and we would now be much better positioned to meet the challenges of the coming decades. We have seen practices that have created confusion in public opinion, such as the inclusion of expenditure items under the social security policy to avoid having to finance them through taxes. This resulted in unfair accounting deficits in social security accounts caused by the transfer of non-contributory policies without the corresponding funding. The situation today is very different. In 2020, in the face of the health crisis caused by the COVID pandemic, the Government deployed a comprehensive package of income protection measures that are being managed by Social Security, such as benefits for self-employed persons and allowances for self-employed persons and workers linked to an ERTE, as well as benefits for temporary incapacity due to low COVID. It was a correct decision for Social Security to assume the management of benefits intended to protect workers, self-employed persons and the productive fabric in general, thanks to its ability to reach the whole territory and to deploy policies quickly and quickly. On this occasion, the financing of these measures has always been assumed by the State. Thus, a specific transfer to Social Security for EUR 20 billion was included in the 2020 State General Budgets to finance the impact on its balance sheet of the expenditure resulting from this set of measures. At the beginning of autumn 2020, with the preparation of the State General Budgets for 2021, we had the accumulated contained impact and hopeful news on the development of vaccines, although we do not know how quickly they could be administered to the population. From the economic point of view we had great uncertainties about possible changes in habits and behaviour and to what extent they will continue to condition the return to normalcy of workers, entrepreneurs and consumers. As you know, our fundamental principle in addressing such changing circumstances over time has been flexibility and adaptation as new information becomes available. This is what we have been doing during the year 2021, a year in which successive pandemic waves halted the process back to normal started in 2020. In order to prevent this from leading to a deterioration in the economic situation, measures to protect employment and special benefits for self-employed workers were extended over time. For example, the impact of the pandemic continued to assume that the temporary disability drop by COVID continued to play a central role in 2021. As you see, unlike what we are proposing today with this transfer, at other times this assumption of new responsibilities by Social Security would not have been accompanied by the necessary funding and, of course, would have meant an increase in the deficit of Social Security that would have been used instrumentally by some to re-frighten citizens. At this point it is necessary to recall that the measures taken have facilitated a rapid recovery of employment, which has intensified since spring and which has allowed the level of social security membership to be significantly higher at this time than February 2020, before the pandemic. Today we have published the November membership data and we are already at 300,000 workers above pre-pandemic levels. This good performance of employment, better than budgeted, is clearly transferred to the Social Security accounts, so that social contribution income is also exceeding the budgeted figures, and it is about €22 billion above budgeted. For its part, expenditure on contributory pensions will end in 2021 in line with the budgeted. This expenditure and revenue dynamic means that the social security deficit in 2021 will certainly fall below the budgeted figure, ending at some EUR 13.7 billion, 1.1% of GDP, below the approximately EUR 14.3 billion in the budgets. This happens even after considering the pensioner's allowance for the deviation of inflation, 1.6%, compared to the pay they already received at the beginning of the year. In short, as I have explained, the measure we have taken to separate sources is a turning point, since Social Security will continue to fulfil all social protection commitments, as we have given it, and will have funding for this. With this, the state of the pension system will be completely preserved. This transfer is therefore a way of fulfilling our commitments on fiscal responsibility and transparency in the financing of social security. This helps citizens to have a clear understanding of the state of the accounts of the pension system and to give greater certainty about the future of the pension system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u139	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal, speaking in turn, spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u140	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, good afternoon. You bring us here today to validate another royal decree-law that mixes various things - as you have us used to - some good things and others not so good. In this Royal Decree-Law 25/2021 we find this extraordinary credit to Social Security to deal with the COVID of 5012 million euros and, also, the modification of the tax regulations for the aid to La Palma. The truth is that it draws attention to the fact that, if these measures, as you have said, comply with Recommendation No. 1 of the Toledo Pact and are good for reducing the deficit in our pension system, you would make them covert and let this rescue go unnoticed. On 8 November they approved this credit in the Council of Ministers without announcing it at the press conference and therefore without admitting questions. Simply, by means of a press release of just five paragraphs, they communicated to the media this remarkable rescue - on their own condition - which was not foreseen, an extraordinary rescue. I do not know whether that night responds to the desire to hide the complex situation of social security, to its lack of forecast in the 2021 State General Budgets that are in force now or that you were too optimistic, because we already knew that extraordinary credits were needed in 2020. We have already warned the Government in the budget procedure of 2021, but they did not want to listen to us. We said that this additional expenditure would be necessary and you said no, given the good evolution of the pandemic and revenue by 2021. Time once again gives us reason and you find yourself with the need to provide another extraordinary credit in 2021 of an additional 5 billion. We are going to draw the accounts: extraordinary 5 billion for expenditure associated with the benefits of self-employed and ERTE, which add to the extraordinary 20 billion for the same end in 2020 and also to the transfers-rescue of finance made in June this year by 13 billion and that envisaged in the budgets for the next year of 18 billion to deal with the payment of pensions in the face of the deficit of the system; a total of 56 billion that will entail more national public debt and more taxes. But, as you have explained, the deficit in the contributions of our Social Security is not only caused by the investment of our population pyramid or by contributions on a minimum basis in the majority of the self-employed, but it has much to do with certain political decisions made by bipartisanism, by successive governments of the People's Party and the PSOE in their alternation in the government. That has been the main cause of the debt situation and the liquidity tensions affecting social security today. I appreciate the exercise you did here today, because we Spaniards have to tell the truth when they ask where your pension money is after forty years of contributions. They must be told that contributions financed part of public health until the end of the 1990s. They should also be told that they were paid for employment policies that were not assumed by the State. We must also tell them that the welfare state was financed with its work and now we must explain to the Spanish that the solutions go by making structural reforms that put young people in the centre so that they have good training, facilities of access to the labour market and decent contracts in terms of duration and wages. It goes on to make structural reforms that allow our young people to develop a vital project that includes independence and forming a family. I think we all know here that the best social policy is to foster birth, help families and create decent jobs for our young people. We will vote in favour of the royal decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u141	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u142	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. It is a very numerical and very accounting issue which at the very least sheds light on the economic reality of the budget and, therefore, of this loan to Social Security. We are going to vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, because we understand that it is a totally necessary measure, apart from being accompanied by other support measures in relation to the volcano explosion. In short, we welcome the fact that this royal decree means that the social security accounts are to be brought to light and that the criteria of the Toledo Pact are to be applied which require social security issues to be financed by social security and, therefore, the separation of sources and the separation of inappropriate expenditure. This royal decree, even with the drama of the creation of this loan, means a clarification of what social security accounts are and what items are allocated to some issues and others. That is why we are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u143	Thank you. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u144	With Almudena Grandes, many of us learned to claim history and memory from an erotic novel. We were thrilled to see tenderness overcome in the face of fear and horror, and crossed the Val d'Aran. She was a lighthouse, a practitioner of memory and popular dignity. She was not a woman of headlines; it was rather to highlight in bold the feet of history. She gave voice to the losers, to those who never gave up. He told the story in feminine and plural and, therefore, now there are those who deny him we deserve recognition, lest we remember where we came from and what happens when he rules the right. Almudena will be remembered by defending joy as a trench and happiness as a way of resisting. Because, as she said herself, even Franco did not manage to prevent those who fought against fascism from falling in love, having children and being happy, despite the terrible conditions. Happiness was and is a way to resist and combat fascism. I think we owe him one and a thousand tributes from this rostrum and we must combat the contempt of some with memory, with joy and with public policies. [[Applauds]] Thank you. This is precisely what this royal decree is about. We have had many crises in Spain, but the truth is that the political response we have given them is very different. In the 2008 crisis, both in Europe and Spain, they chose to exalt the evil so-called austerity. Public rights and services were cut, reforms were adopted to devalue wages and the idea was put in place that the State should not invest. Consequences: unemployment, precariousness, poverty and more inequality. I will not say that it was a surprise, since the IMF had already experienced and practiced these recipes with us in Latin America before and the result - failed, by the way - is also well known. In 2019 the thing changed and even Mario Draghi admitted that this strategy had been a huge mistake - I would also add cruel and stupid - and he himself urged to recover the duty of States around public investment. The COVID crisis has been and continues to be very harsh for the vast majority of citizens and businesses around the world, but this government responded with guarantees and protection. The good development of 2021 meant that certain expenses were not envisaged around the General Budgets Act, but the persistence of the pandemic and the volcanic eruption in La Palma obviously forces us to reaffirm and extend the social shield quickly and urgently. This is the motivation of this royal decree which basically authorizes an extraordinary transfer to benefit investment and continuity in three areas, mainly. First of all, of course, in social security, as the Minister has rightly explained. We basically talk about guaranteeing contributory pensions, temporary disability benefits, birth and care of minors or care for, for example, children affected by cancer or other serious diseases. Secondly, we are talking about SEPE. We basically propose to cover the costs arising from unemployment benefits and ERTE, which continue to keep thousands of families and businesses standing; and I would also like to highlight the extraordinary benefits for self-employed people, resulting from the agreement with the associations of the collective, which entail their exemption from the quotas. Thirdly, of course, La Palma. I take the opportunity to reiterate the absolute solidarity with palm trees and palm trees. The public must turn to repair the destruction caused by the eruption of the Old Summit volcano and here it is basically proposed the exemption of the IRPF and the corporation tax for the public aid received. All these investments must be dealt with urgently and we cannot delay them for the next financial year, so we ask for the vote in favour of this royal decree. We believe that all groups should vote in favour. Do not do so out of loyalty to the Government, do so in this case out of loyalty to the people of this country. I end with a hopeful fact. I think today's a good day. Today, unemployment figures have risen and are below the levels of the start of the legislature. The reduction in unemployment in November is the biggest fall in this month in the entire historical series and we have chained nine consecutive months of unemployment reduction, the longest period of decline since we have had data. In 2008 it took eleven years to make the recovery visible and now it has taken us a year and nine months. No triumphalism, I would also like to highlight this, because there is a great deal of precariousness to be banished, but neither is blindness, ladies and gentlemen. We're on the right track. Let's keep working and pass this decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u146	Mr. President, Mr. Minister: 'And I write for the art they invented / those that the vulgar applause intended, / because, as the vulgar pays them, it is fair / to speak foolishly to him to please him.' [[Applauds]] As some of your honors will have observed, it's a sentence of Lope de Vega. Since I have seen the Socialist Member speak irritable of Cervantes and also the Member speak of Almudena Grandes, there is no further mention of any competitor of Mr Cervantes. And it's that I met him - not Lope de Vega, who maybe we would have gotten along well, but the character - because I was able to participate in the production of a film, Lope, and I met the writer, the director, the actors, the actresses, of course, and the character, and he's a character, like all the literary characters, from which we can draw great conclusions. In short, it is imperative to speak to the vague, to the people, to the foolish, considered ignorant, to give them pleasure, and this is what the Government is doing, because in this royal decree we perceive once again the certainty that the budget of Social Security is not independent, but part of the general budgets of the State; the certainty that, by consolidating all the chapters and eliminating the transfers, which means only passing the deficits of some other chapters of the budget, it is concluded that the accounts of Social Security are not balanced. The Royal Decree-Law contains the explanatory statement, four articles and three final provisions. Of the final provisions, as has been said here, there are two that are very formal, one of them - the first, in particular - in reference to the deferred remuneration of senior bankers, so that we are mixing things, as the Member of Parliament for Citizens has said, and of the four articles, the last one says that they are not part of the tax base on income tax and company tax the compensation that is received as a result of the damage caused by the volcano in La Palma. But, Minister, in the rest of the article and in the explanatory statement it is where the deception that VOX has been denouncing in what it means does not want to face the problem of the sustainability of the social security system to guarantee pensions. And this sentence of Lope fits beautifully: 'Forcible is to speak to the vulgo is foolish to please him', and is that it is intended that the Spanish people listen to what does not happen. In your own explanatory statement you say that this transfer is a consequence of the lack of government forecast, of the financial imbalance of Social Security, and is financed by public debt of the State - you acknowledge - and there are extensions to the INSS and the National Institute of the Navy because of the COVID. And it is that, of course, for the gentlemen of the government in 2020 the COVID did not exist and this special item that had to have appeared is not there. And now we move on from an increase of 16.4% in transfers to Social Security and this item is gone again. And I see we're all still wearing masks. It would not be bad if this item had been taken into account in the budget. It is the usual, Minister, to speak to the vague in foolishness has no result. In the draft law on the guarantee of the purchasing power of pensions, which will then be discussed, the same is true. Finally, we are not going to support the massive deception of the Government to the Spaniards by transferring the deficit of Social Security to the State. And 14.6% unemployment is not good news, Minister. Let's see if they end up as in another work by Lope de Vega, Fuenteovejuna, when the commander - already know who - abused the lady Laurencia, - the despot already know who she is, the commander -, and the people, with one voice, gave her deserved to him and his lackeys. And this is what we intend to do. And it is that there are many humble and well-meaning Spaniards who do not want to be considered as foolish and with them also only VOX remains. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u147	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are going to allow me, before I begin with the substance of the matter, to tell you that pensioners know very well that only the governments that create jobs are able to guarantee pensions, and at this time only the economic proposals of Pablo Casado, the Labour Reform Act of the People's Party and the employment policies of the People's Party guarantee pensions. I will reproach you, Minister, for you are accustomed to rule by royal decree, and that is an abuse of power and an absolutely unacceptable socialcommunist roller. You know that in democracy the laws are made by Parliaments and that it is true that the Spanish Constitution provides that, in a form and in extraordinary situations and of urgent need, the Government can make a real decree, but it has to justify why it is extraordinary and why it is urgent, and only the governments in dictatorship are those who make laws. Since the pandemic began you have made one hundred and ten royal decrees, and, compared to those made by the Aznar government in the last legislature, which were forty-two, and those made by the Rajoy government in the last legislature, which were thirty, look at what a difference, and you were dedicated to criticizing this practice in a fierce way. This Royal Decree-Law 25/2021 demonstrates the mendacity of his Government, a Government which in the general budgets of the State lied and deceived persistently. You come here today, in December, and you say that for the COVID, which started in 2020, you need an extraordinary credit of five billion for Social Security, SEPE and other issues. Do you know what that is, Minister? The pressure of the vague, because you have done nothing to rectify the economic trajectory throughout this year. You expected a 9.8% increase in GDP in the budgets and have reached 4.5%. Minister, the situation is absolutely unacceptable. You have failed streptically, you have failed in pension reform. And I will give you only two figures: firstly, the employment tax, with the increase in contributions, and secondly, the trick of telling pensioners that they are going to rise by 2.2%, when, in fact, they are going to lose 3.4%, because the November CPI was 5.6%. So, he's cheating on them. And I'm going to tell you one thing: You pardon the thugs and condemn the pensioners to poverty. Yes, Minister, you betrayed the spirit of the Toledo Pact. In it we made the relevant recommendations and told him that he would move him to a law, and we did so with a great deal of consensus from all political groups. And you know what you've done? Break political consensus and break social consensus. It comes here from the arm of Esquerra Republicana and Bildu, and throughout this time it has been using probe balloons. And you know the only thing they've done? To confuse, worry, and fill the pensioners with bleakness and uncertainty. The Governor of the Bank of Spain, the Governor of the Bank of Spain himself, its former head, and today the OECD, know what they're saying? [[Shows a press clipping]] That the accounts you've made of the pensions aren't right, that's going to go absolutely wrong. At the moment, there is virtually no agreement with you. But do you know what's most serious about everything? That it is endangering the funds of the European Union: its pension policy. And he's failed at minimum vital income. You told us here that they were going to benefit 2.3 million Spaniards. Do you know how many you've benefited? At 750 000, the INE says that there are 3.3 million people who need it because they are in a situation of severe poverty, with very serious material deficiencies. And the IPC by the clouds. And inflation, Minister, is no longer transitory. You know there is a serious economic risk because inflation is persistent, and you just said it no more or less than the President of the Federal Reserve of the United States. And it's going up VAT, it's going up shopping, it's going up fuel, it's going up taxes. Minister, your ambition and ego have led you to fail in a strept way not only in pensions and minimum living income, but also in the immigration pact you promised and now in the general state budgets. But how do you, who came with a halo that was the greatest Orthodox and the most rigorous to make budgets, now say you lack five billion? I won't remind you of anything else. Do you sleep quietly at night? Do you want me to remind you of anything from when you were at the AIReF, appointed by the People's Party, or the Bank of Spain or BBVA? Minister, you've acted like a firefighter. You know why? Because you'd set the fuck up, set the fire and then tried to turn it off, so they'd tell you that you'd done very well. We're going to vote in favour of this royal decree, you know why? Although I would not vote for you or sleep, because you are not reliable and have betrayed the Toledo Pact, we are going to vote in favour of pensioners, the unemployed, the most vulnerable and the citizens of La Palma. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u149	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Somoza has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u150	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the social commitment of this government is demonstrated in decrees such as the 25/2021, which we are debating today. It is a decree as necessary and ambitious as it is just so that all citizens who need the impetus of the Government can move forward. I must regret, for the speeches I have heard before, that this measure does not have the support of all the parliamentary groups. I have listened very carefully to your arguments, but without acridity, I have to tell you that I believe you are once again mistaken. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that not voting in favour of this measure is a great irresponsibility on your part, because it is about voting in favour of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you presume that you are the guarantors of this country's social progress, you intend to give lessons from good managers to the left; you, who have emptied the pension fund, who have lost the purchasing power of our pensioners. [[applause]] You, lessons to the government of Pedro Sánchez none. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law is very ambitious. As the Minister has already said, it includes measures of great importance for the well-being of the population. On the one hand, it amends the wording of the fifth additional provision of the Law on IRPF and on corporation tax, the aim being to eliminate legal uncertainty. As a novelty, the population affected by volcanic eruptions is expressly included so that public aid received as a result of the destruction of their assets is not included in the tax base of both corporate tax and the IRPF. As you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, this measure directly benefits the population affected by the Old Summit volcano on the island of La Palma. Once again, the government is not going to leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]] There are different ways out of the crisis: one of them is working for those who really need it, and the actions of this Government have shown us that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, despite your catastrophic messages, today we are in terms of employment growth and membership above 2019. [[Applauds]] Today's data record historical records: nine consecutive months of falling unemployment, the best November since 2008; curiously, it coincides with the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. A good day for Spain and the Spanish, another bad day for you. [[Applauds]] I know they don't like to recognize these data, but the reality is that the average membership of the total system is above the pre-crisis. In absolute terms, the average membership has grown in more than three hundred thousand affiliates. Since October 2020 we have more than 700,000 members, on average. Ladies and gentlemen, this is due to the fair recovery launched by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the antithesis of the People's Party's cut-off governments, because, if there is one thing we have always had clear, and I repeat, we are not going to leave anyone behind. As we all know, the crisis of COVID-19 has made a dent in our economy and has caused significant financial needs in social security. Nor can we obviate the significant income reductions that it has entailed in it. The state budgets of 2021, the current ones, already provided for it - yes, ladies and gentlemen, envisaged it - but the persistence of the negative effects resulting from the health crisis has necessitated the need to continue with these measures implemented during 2020 in order to ensure adequate protective action, which will also be extended until February 2022. It is therefore necessary to authorise the transfer of credit amounting to EUR 5012 million, with the aim of balancing the impact on social security accounts derived from COVID-19. In short, this is a real decree-law that, as it cannot be otherwise, will count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group because it is rigorous in the approach, ambitious in its content, necessary for the collectives to which it is directed, social because it directly affects citizens and, most importantly, poses objectives that are real, achievable and balanced for our public accounts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u152	We turn to the point concerning the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, to the proposal for the reform of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February 2007 on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, with a view to the abolition of the suffocation of Members of Parliament of the Balearic Islands and Members of the Government. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u153	Thank you, President. I intervene very quickly. The truth is that we are very pleased that finally this whole House, surely unanimously - with total certainty, because this was seen in the presentation - will approve the amendment to the Statute of the Balearic Islands. I believe that today we must welcome the fact that in the Balearic Islands politicians and the Government cease to use a privilege such as that of suffocation, as has already been done in Madrid, Cantabria and in many communities, while in others it is already being processed. I think this will be inevitable, in the end all the autonomous communities will eventually change their statutes for this. And the big question is, when are we going to do this here and in the Senate? That is the big question I want to put to all Members in this House who are from the Balearic Islands. When you see your party mates, what are you going to tell them? Are you going to feel different for continuing to hold on to some stumbling blocks that they don't have anymore? When you see your colleagues in the Balearic Islands Government, what are you going to tell them at the meetings, that you want to continue to maintain that privilege in this House? I urge the Government and the Socialist Party, as the majority party in this House, to bring about a constitutional amendment so that in Congress and in the Senate the privilege of severing the Government of the nation and the deputies and senators of the General Courts will end. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u155	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of the whirlwinds in the Balearic Islands is a debate which concerns us as a society and which, however, is in danger of being ignored. This statutory change has been made possible thanks to the governance agreements between Podemos, PSIB and Més of June 4, 2015, to which, as no longer left any remedy, the rest of the parties joined. [[Protests]] The people we firmly believe in democratic and equal values are honoured to debate today in this House about the figure of the camp and to manage it in accordance with the new times. This is a debate that goes far beyond this figure and that directly affects and depends on the model of democracy that each one defends. For our part, our model of democracy is one that represents and shows itself humble and horizontal with and for all citizens. Today, presumably, after a long period of processing we will be able to bring to the Balearic Islands the good news that we have taken one more step to dignify our institutions. We can rule that we continue to take steps towards full democracy. In the squares of Baleares during the 15-M a truth was chanted like a temple, and it was no other than 'no bread for so much chorizo'. For many years this has been a reality on the islands because of the network of corruption installed by the People's Party and its autonomous presidents, which caused so much damage to the institutions: Gabriel Cañellas, Sóller tunnel, tried and declared proven the accusations by the High Court of Justice already in 1997 - they began soon -, or Jaume Matas, also minister of the People's Party, with the case Noos, Palma Arena, Son Espases, among so many. We could say that we have been the autonomous community with the largest number of accused of corruption per inhabitant, and this should be explained by the People's Bank - Mr Casado, Mrs Prohens - and, ashamed, ask for forgiveness, although they may not. But today we have the opportunity to change and continue to advance also from Congress with the elimination of constitutional outbursts, as well as the king's inviolability, because they are a democratic anomaly installed in times past. [[Applauds]] In a full democracy we are all equal before the law, and at the moment in Spain it is not so, although surely it does not interest the People's Party since its strategy is clear, as Mr. Cosidó assumed - it has been a great move, we will control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind - and this, ladies and gentlemen, has not changed. It is clear the interest of the right-wing party in the control of the judiciary, its politicization and its refusal to renew the General Council of the judiciary, abducting it, in its countless cases of corruption pending judicially. It's not random, it's causality. I would like to remind the convenience Europeanists here again that in Portugal and Italy only the President and in Germany is caught up, which shows to your ladies and gentlemen that if it is not stolen, there is no need for a stoppage or inviolability. The elimination of the suffocation of the deputies of the Balearic Islands is a historic fact that ends with a political privilege and advances and looks with need for a future towards the full democracy that we can defend in the United Nations. From today on, the good people of Menorca, Ibiza, Formentera and Mallorca know that in the institutions of Balearic Islands corruption does not go unpunished. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u156	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u157	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I will be very brief in my speech. Today we are debating the reform of the Statut d'Autonomie de les Illes Balears for the abolition of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and Members of the Government of the Balearic Islands, an initiative that arises from the Parliament itself of the Balearic Islands and bears the stamp of the green, sovereignist and islandist left of Més per Mallorca, of which Esquerra Republicana is a member and represents in this Congress as a party with presence in all the Paisoscatalans. [[The lady]] As fellow MEP Josep Castells of Més per Mallorca explained, the Balearic Islands, very regrettably, have long been part of the map of corruption in the Spanish state, largely because of the corruption of the People's Party. We just need to remember the Palma Arena case or the Noos case. That is why the Parliament of the Balearic Islands proposed this statutory reform, which we will obviously support from the Republican Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Parliament of the Balearic Islands proposes the reform of the Statute of Self-Government in order to abolish the suffocation of Members of Parliament and members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. [[The lady]] So far my parliamentary group had taught mathematics to progress, but the work is accumulating for us and now we have to give legal lessons, so here we leave some free. Do you know too much? Well, now I'm going to expose your mistakes, so you can see what they are. How can they maintain in a proposal for an organic law reform this barbarity that neither Members of Parliament nor members of the Government should remain outside ordinary jurisdiction? Are they outside the ordinary jurisdiction? It is a small occurrence to claim that strangulation is a special jurisdiction! As my colleague, José María Sánchez, would say: Suspended, all suspended. [[Applauds]] This is just a matter of competition rules, nothing more and nothing less. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, procedural rigour. We have already warned you in the legislative paper, which is the opportune time to draft the legal text, that a technical correction amendment should be introduced in this regard. But it did not prosper because, as you never listen, you voted against, blinded by your sectarianism. And if the Legislature strives to maintain a health cord, to the detriment of the rules that it legislates, so do the laws. And from this basic meeting point, we can continue to move forward. The second lesson is that this rule speaks of areas, when the ordinary jurisdiction is actually divided into jurisdictional orders. Let's insist: Are we working rigorously? Ladies and gentlemen, please, we are making laws! Can you explain why you also voted in the legislative paper against the technical correction amendment tabled by VOX in this regard? But the most serious thing, in the third and last place, is that this amendment does not serve much, but it is still a question that has been simple to date. See article 73.2 (a) of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. He said that it would be the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the High Court of Justice that would hear civil liability claims for acts committed in the exercise of their respective functions, which remained in force and thus retained that competence by the High Court of Justice. Paragraph 3 lays down the matters to be dealt with as a Criminal Chamber. These are the criminal cases that the statutes of autonomy reserve for the higher courts of justice. What does this mean? That in the first of the cases it is not possible to abolish it by amending the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, because its establishment is given by the Organic Law of the Judiciary itself. Abolition of severance in claims of civil liability would only be possible through the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary itself. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of article 44 of the Balearic Statute, which establishes the severance of the autonomous deputies, and of articles 56.7 and 57.5 of the same legal body, which establishes them respectively for the president of the community and the members of the Government, serve little, as I said, since any claim of civil liability directed against them until the Organic Law of the Judiciary is reformed will remain the competence of the High Court of Justice of the Balearic Islands. Therefore, as we have pointed out above, we should ask ourselves whether we are simplifying or complicating the procedural scenario with this poor legislative technique. That said, and in spite of its mediocrity, we will vote in favour, because we basically agree to eliminate the suffocation of the Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, as well as of the members of the Government, although in reality we are more in the process of solving the root problems and, therefore, what needs to be suppressed are not the suffocation, but the autonomous political positions themselves and the structures in which they exist. [[Applauds]] Perhaps the low profile of the parliamentarians who voted against the technical correction VOX amendments is due to the fact that they have never had to strive to maintain a business or a job and mediocrity serves them as a unit of measure. In short, don't worry too much, because when the Spanish people give us the necessary parliamentary force we will put an end to their elephantic state of autonomy and then they won't have to worry about continuing to suppress any autonomous prerogative. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u160	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u161	Thank you, President. I am proud to defend this initiative today, which we are voting on. First, because it is an initiative that concerns my land, Illes Balears, not these Catalan countries that exist only in their imagination and in that of the PSIB. [[Applauds]] Secondly, because it is an initiative that is committed to regeneration. And third, because it is an initiative that arises from the total and absolute political consensus and that was born me as the spokesman of my party in the Parliament of Illes Balears. Today we come to discuss the amendment of the law that enshrines Mallorca, Menorca, Ibiza and Formentera as an autonomous community, the framework that has allowed the highest levels of prosperity and well-being on our islands and that I am committed to safeguarding, l'Estatut d'Autonomie de les Illes Balears. With this amendment, which we are bringing today, we intend to eliminate the squabbles. As you are well aware, this is the figure by which certain persons, on account of their position, are subject to specific and distinct courts to which other citizens are subject. True to the consensus that has emerged in Parliament, I call today on all groups to support the amendment of our statute. And if I may, I would also ask you from this rostrum to support other consensus reached politically and socially in the Balearic Islands and to reach this House as soon as possible. I'm talking about the Balearics tax system. These days we are talking about inflation and the general rise in prices suffered by citizens in the face of the government's inaction. Well, in Balearic Islands there is a permanent cost overrun, that of insularity. The fact that we are islands, the discontinuity of the territory, condemns us to an increase in imports and exports, the shopping basket and the cost of living in general. We need an instrument to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses and self-employed and to enable them to compete equally with the rest. We are the only extrapenisular territory that does not have its tax system. We do not want to be more than anyone, nor to speak a victimistic discourse, in reverse; we ask for justice and equality with the rest of the country, a country we are proud of, because being Mallorcan, Menorcan, Ibizan and Formenterenses is our way of being Spanish within a united, plural and diverse Spain. In February 2019, an agreement was presented between the Government and our autonomous Government to implement the special regime, with an insularity factor for investments and with the tax regime. The proposal has the consensus of all parties. Unfortunately, the factor of insularity has remained in a deception, in a game of triple budget. From the tax system, not a word, the other way around. Last October, at the initiative of the People's Party, the Senate took into consideration the tax regime law and, surprisingly, the Socialist Party only voted against it. Now that the law is already in the House I ask for your support, and I warn the Socialist Party that we will not allow delays because they are not interested. I have stopped at this point because this matter will come before other consensus in the Balearic Islands, but there is more. Another essential tool is to work for Europe to accept once and for all to change the de minimis decree, which today limits subsidies to the transport of goods on the islands. We also demand a dignified insularity for state officials in the Balearic Islands, which you have vetoed and to which President Casado committed yesterday to the National Police. Despite our climate and environment, no one wants to come to work on our islands. The cost of living is higher than that of other communities and yet our officials do not have sufficient compensation, leaving vacancies. But we need them; in fact, we need resources for our bodies and security forces, because there is a reality that worries more and more every day: the increasing arrival of pateras at our shores. We need human management, but efficient. We also ask you to stop questioning the discount for being residents. All the communities are already immersed in the debate of a financing system that takes into account Spain that fills and respects our fiscal autonomy to lower taxes where we govern. All these are not demands of the People's Party, they are demands that have social and political consensus. As our President Armengol is silent before Sánchez, I come here today to expose him, to defend the interests of the citizens of Balearic Islands, to vote for those who vote, before the general interest, this general interest...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u163	...to which the left has betrayed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u164	For the Socialist Group, Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u165	Thank you, President. The People's Party never ceases to surprise me, and Mrs Prohens even less. You take advantage of the question of the rigours to ask for a tax system, even if you have supported measures that are exactly the opposite, because by voting against the General Budgets of the State you have voted against an insularity, for which you are allocated 189 million euros, and above all you tell us that we have to approve the special regime. [[Mrs. Prohens Rigo closes her fingers thumb and index indicating zero]] [[Applauds]] Please make me almost nervous, honestly. Secondly, it seems to me wrong that there is not the Member of the House of Citizens, who has said that there is a process for desperation in Madrid. Well, when I get to the House, I'll give you lessons from what you're feeling, because I do know how you feel about the decision you've made today. When you arrive in this House, you will tell the other Members of the other communities what it feels like. Finally, I'll just talk for a second about what Congresswoman De las Heras was saying, which I don't see. They are against the autonomous system, but their leader in Balearics has been living from chiringuito to chiringuito since 2007 for over fifteen years. [[Applauds]] Amazing. Indeed, this process comes from the hands of the Balearic Parliament, but this has not fallen from the sky, but it has been the reaction to a dark time, a time of corruption, of stifling and of disaffection, which went hand in hand, in a amalgamated whole. Let us not forget that society said enough to a black time, which had a reflection, logically, in justice and in the ballot box. And from the ballot box, Mrs Prohens, a new confidence came out, and you have been in the opposition for six years - six years in the opposition -. Therefore, there was a new policy, a different policy. I remind you that this new way of doing politics brought the Office for the Prevention and Fighting of Corruption, which started with 300,000 euros and I don't know if you know that the budget for 2022 allocates it 1.3 million. I remind you that Parliament's Rules of Procedure - of course Parliament's Rules of Procedure - have been changed, that economic royalties have been abolished, that the Government Act was updated in 2019 to make it more transparent and that procedures for popular legislative initiatives have been speeded up. That was a time change. And in this framework of measures is included the suppression of the stumbling blocks, which does not come from heaven, but from a very dark moment in the Balearic Islands, of which, by the way, you were also a part, because you were part of the People's Party during those years. [[Mrs Prohens Rigo utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, you were there, you were there. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I'd like to hear it sometime...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u166	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u167	I'd also like you to let me talk. Figures are the best. In 2015, when this change of government took place, €500,000 was devoted to transparency policies. Today more than 2 million are dedicated. There's no color. I think the important thing is that we move on today. There was a time when we were known - everyone knows it here, everyone remembers it - by the television corridors and by the courts, and by the boats of Colacao, by the macro cause Noos, by the macro cause Son Espases or by the Palma Arena case. That changes today, that's over, and it's over with the Socialist Party. The truth is that today we are taking one more step towards a country with a democracy more committed to equality and ethics and because it is also the best way to combat the disaffection and the liberal and authoritarian times in which we live. Because let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the cost of mixing corruption and politics is borne, above all, by democracy, and in the Balearic Islands we know a great deal about that. That is why today's step is important, a step that we are proud of and a step that closes an era. In conclusion, I repeat that you are giving lessons at the same time as rejecting general state budgets that allocate 183 million euros to the Balearic Islands for insularity and European funds of more than 189 million, which put us above average. I would therefore like you to be happy, rather than criticising, criticising and criticising. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposal for a reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands and of the Senate amendments to the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Because these initiatives are organic, they must be put to a final vote, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. That is why, in compliance precisely with this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u170	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Opinion of the draft Law on Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Temporaryity in Public Employment, from Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position at this time, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Through this Member of Parliament, Coalition Canaria was the first to bring to this Congress the problem of the temporary staff of the labour force in fraud of law and it was when Mr Iceta was a minister. I do not know if you will remember that when this Member spoke of this sentence, like the spokesman for Esquerra, Minister Iceta told me that ignorance is daring. He called me ignorant and told me that he had no idea of the rules or the judgment of the High Court of Justice. The proposal we made in the Canary Islands and Esquerra Coalition was of places to be extinguished and of applying the Workers' Statute to certain dismissals and, above all, to give a global solution. The most surprising thing is that at the time the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands had reached an agreement with all the platforms and trade unions, and Mr.Iceta stopped it, because he said that it was state affairs. We continue to maintain the same amendments, because what Ana Oramas, Coalition Canaria, said was not ignorance, as they are going to make a proposal with certain conditions for those who have had the same place for more than five years. Why is it five years and not three and a half, four or five? The legal basis would be the same. Are they in the same square? You know that, for example, most people in the Canary Islands are a few years in a hospital or on an island or in a school or in a dining room or in a kitchen. In addition, almost all the proposal is said to be possible; it is not said as an imperative. And, of course, the issue of compensation is entrepreneurship. That is why we continue to maintain the same amendments. It seems to us to be an injustice. It's gonna be a great ERE. In addition, in the Canary Islands, for example, there has been no OPE. What's wrong with that? It's not clear either. But, above all, many women over 50 in the Canary Islands are workers who work in kitchens, etc., and can be displaced in a merit contest to which anyone can present themselves. The Socialist Government shouts out that the temporaryity and abuse of workers must be eliminated, but does not apply it in the same house. There are constitutional and legal solutions, as the High Court has said, but all they are doing is bringing hundreds of thousands of workers in this country to the courts. Of course, we are not going to support these amendments or the proposal that is being brought to us, because they are insufficient. We'll keep fighting in the Senate. We are not going to vote against it, because we believe it is an improvement on the previous one, but of course we are going to abstain and we are going to vote in favour of the amendments by the Canary Islands Coalition. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u173	Good afternoon. We have already spoken in the committees and in the presentation. We believe that this decree-law is totally inadequate and, therefore, will cause enough problems for some of the interims and also for many of the opponents of the people who are preparing oppositions. Firstly, forcing the autonomous communities to call for competition, I think, goes beyond the powers of the central State. On the other hand, it is also going to interfere very seriously with many of the processes initiated, for example those initiated in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria at the moment. Regularization has already begun and it is not clear what will happen. I know that they have announced that there will be some meeting where instructions will be given, but the instructions that the ministry can give, through an order or as it is agreed, will not be able to go against this law. This law has things that are pretty negative. I think it will give legal problems, but it will also give problems to the people who will have to suffer it. We said that the autonomous communities should be left free and'may' instead of 'call'. In the end, as those communities that defend it so much will be able to do, those who believe it is not the best system should be left free. I have also been constantly repeating that the Public Service in Spain is deteriorating. These steps are not in the direction of public officials entering through the system of merit and capacity, regardless of the multiple injustices that may and must be corrected. It's not the way to do it. We do not agree with this decree-law and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u175	Thank you, President. From the perspective of the independenceist left and of many of the unions that continue with the protests today and that went on strike on Monday, the adoption of this text is bad news. The 'icetaz' proposes a solution to the European Union's ruling which leaves a lot of people on the street and which, in addition, allows the summoning of places in fraud of law. But in all this history there is also good news, and it is that organization and struggle serve. This text is much better than the initial one because there have been strikes, because there has been union organization and because there are people protesting. The Autonomous Communities are allowed to manage part of the calls and, in addition, it is obliged to stabilise the staff of more than five years; obviously, staff with structural work and all the conditions laid down in the text of the opinion. We are going to vote that no, because we share the demands of the workers who are still in the street in struggle and organized, those who today in Catalonia have made protests, those who were at the door of the Congress of Deputies, those who on Monday took a massive strike in Catalonia and also in other places of the State. It could have been done differently. The CUP proposed in this same Congress an alternative text, which is also being worked on in Catalonia. We'll see how the situation ends. I have seen, during the state of alarm, many of the political forces that today are going to support this royal decree calling for applause for public workers. The applause is fine if it comes from the hand of labour rights, which is what women workers and public workers need. This text leaves thousands of people on the street and this text allows for the continued convening of places for fraud. We will continue to work at the hands of the workers. In Catalonia, we will continue to support the mobilizations of all Catalan countries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan countries are a reality. It looks like you're allergic, and it's pretty fun, so let's say in every Catalan country intervention. I want to thank the workers who are still organized. Strikes serve, struggle serves, and the independent left will stand by you. Thank you so much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u177	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, reducing time in the state is one of the key objectives for modernising its productive fabric and for its future competitiveness. This has been repeatedly pointed out and claimed by the institutions of the Union, given the high rates of temporaryity. Now, through the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan has been built up in condition for receiving the funds associated with it. It has thus committed itself to the first reform relating to public administrations in its component 11. We all share the concern about structural temporality, from the point of view of security in people's employment, from the point of view of their abuse and from the point of view of better provision of public services, particularly essential services. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, are also aware of the need to adapt the Spanish legal system to the Directive on the framework agreement for the regulation of work, as well as to the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union on its fourth and fifth clauses. We are also all aware of the need to reduce the current rate of temporary employment to 8 % and to ensure that it does not occur again in the future, through effective and appropriate measures to prevent it, and, where appropriate, to sanction an abuse of possible temporary employment. We are also all aware that situations of abuse affecting public employment, which we are trying to resolve today through the adoption of this rule, must be in line with the constitutional principles governing access to public employment, such as advertising, equality, merit and capacity. Thus, we find it doubtful that the automatic transformation of a temporary service relationship into a permanent service relationship falls within these constitutional principles of access to public employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party has worked actively on the text whose adoption we are debating today, being aware that any agreement between different views requires mutual divestitures. In this respect, our original amendments were withdrawn following the achievement of transversal agreements, but we have maintained the number 73 for its relation to replacement rates, which were the main cause of the high structural rate of temporaryity in public employment and which can again become the future Achilles heel of the welfare state if, like those suffered in the past, they reoccur. That is why we do not share the third additional provision, nor does it itself articulate an authorization, which is actually a limitation, to fill vacancies with temporary staff when this is consistent with the principles of public employment regulation, nor that the only vacancies to be temporarily filled are those that bring cause for retirement when there are many other causes for finding ourselves in untitled positions. In any case, as I said at the outset, we will vote in favour of the initiative, as it represents a remarkable step forward in addressing the serious problem of temporaryity facing the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u179	Thank you, President. We are dealing with a bill that comes from a royal decree that was already passed in haste and splendour by a minister who spent months in office and that is why, in addition, this bill received the 'icetaz' appeal. The usual partners of the Government and, in particular, the Republican Left - not only them, but especially them - gesticulate a lot, but they concluded in their approval to save the Government by saying that they would be very very demanding in the process as a bill, but they have been just a little bit, as was foreseeable, and are halfway there. I remember, in this case, Mrs Vallugera strongly nodding on many of the issues we asked from Citizens, but then it seems that that was not so energetic. However, we can say a positive thing and it is that, in the drafting of the paper, the text - it is true - has improved, but only in some respects, not enough, as always, because the Government with its partners has applied the roller and to the rest of the parliamentary groups has offered them lentils already cooked. This project cannot count on our support, even if we recognize improvements, such as the competition of restricted merits, but only for a group of interims in abuse; the clearer recognition of situations of abuse, but without any sanction for those responsible; the express recognition that at the end of the three years the interinity relationship ends, but without clarification, because it does not clarify it, if that means effectively the cessation of the interim official generating legal insecurity and venturing a great litigation - other spokespersons have said - and creating, in addition, discrimination for these workers with respect to the private sector because they are granted much lower compensation. A situation of legal insecurity is left to the acting persons currently in abuse, but less than six years of age, allowing each autonomous community to decide whether the proceedings will be admissible, some may and others not. In short, there are many things that remain the same and the problem of the abuse of temporality is not finally resolved in the future. That's the main problem. It is still a measure for today, but it does not regulate with certainty the situation of the future. In the face of all that, what does my group propose? We propose that the situation of abuse of any acting person who has been working for three years be considered automatically - well - the law already provides for that, it is common sense; agility also, the positions of official may in no case be occupied by acting persons for more than four years, that is, the Administration will have the maximum period of one year to summon and cover that place when the acting person has been acting for three years and this situation of abuse is confirmed; we also asked for guarantees, those who were in this situation between three and ten years had the right to stabilize their situation under the figure, there has been much talk here, of the fixed to extinguish - what does that mean? That they could not be removed, but neither would they have the title of a position of official in the same terms as those who have won it with an opposition, something that has not been taken into account and that is already generating grievances and protests - and also the end of the exceptionality to comply with the European Union. For example, in the most serious cases of more than ten years of abuse, we propose a restricted tendering system justified by the exceptional nature of the situation and the need to adapt to that European legislation and to do so without delay. We also insist on our amendments on reparation. The Government cannot wash its hands, we wanted - as I said earlier - compensation of thirty-three days per year worked, like any other private sector worker. There is enormous discrimination and, in addition, with persons who have been declared and recognized in the law who are in a situation of abuse. We talk about people who can stay on the street without a work alternative and some of them old. It was also essential to prevent this from happening again in the future, thus condemning other generations of civil servants. And the best way to do that is to establish real responsibilities for those who have caused this situation of abuse and who will personally respond to this in the return of compensation for abused workers. That has not been accepted and even legal barbarities have been heard by the minister in the Commission. Finally, as always, and not strictly related to the interim, but yes to the Public Service, we propose the abolition of privileges. We propose to end the privilege of those who from the Public Service enter politics and, after maintaining their seat, take a level of remuneration equivalent to that of Director General.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u181	No one's worked... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u182	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u183	Thank you, Madam President. For the BNG this proposal improves the initial text, but we also believe that it will not be a real solution to the problem of the abuse of temporality, to begin with, because it does not eliminate the replenishment rate, which has been the basis of the gestation of this problem over many years. As a result, there is also no clarity as to what structural positions are in the various areas of administration, the capacity of public administrations to negotiate also on the basis of their own reality is limited, and compensation for termination is not generally recognised. In our view, the wording also promotes precariousness, starting with a limit of three years in all cases, and excludes many people, especially those who have been under five years. Therefore, the Galego Nationalist Block will not be able to support this proposal, nor will we logically oppose it, so our...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u185	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to abstain from this opinion. This starts with the Royal Decree 14/2021, which ended up validating in a final agreement that should solve the problem for those places that had been temporarily occupied for ten years without interruption. We said that this was absolutely insufficient, and now it is solved at five years with some conditioning. If it can be solved at five years, it could also be solved for the rest. In any case, at that time we were also told that the contest-opposition was essential, that there was no possibility of covering it with a contest. Of course there was legal possibility and it is currently being implemented, but it is also being implemented in an absolutely partial way. We asked that it be each autonomous community or city council that had the capacity to decide how it should be convened and, in any case, since an effort was made, theoretically, to solve a large part of the problem, which is not excluded a part that, although small, is also relevant. From our perspective, as this legal text has ended up materializing - I hope I am mistaken and you do not have to give me the reason in a couple of years - it will lead to a series of cases where many places and many interims will remain in a situation I do not say of defencelessness, but yes without solution to your situation. So, we're going...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, who a few months ago we refused to vote for the validation of 'icetazol', which we are not under a flat-rate contract with the Government, we have humbly helped to achieve something in terms of reducing the temporality of public employment. Junts per Catalunya, together with other political forces and some deputies of the majority who demonstrated their firmness by voting no to the validation of 'icetazol', we have made possible an improvement to protect the rights of abused public workers. The Catalan national trade unions, which are the majority in the public sector, have moved us - and we fully agree - that this step is insufficient, because neither the stabilization of all people in temporary abuse is guaranteed nor that a new temporary exchange is not created again. Still, we believe that there is a change in the logic of stabilization. The royal decree-law provided for massive opposition and put at risk the jobs of hundreds of thousands of public workers, a huge personal affectation with a clear gender bias, because it particularly affected the most feminized groups: education and health. We were told that access to the Public Service was not possible through the merit competition, for now, and not by magic, but by the threat of losing a vote, which was then not possible, is now possible. Thus, the bill provides for an extraordinary competition of merits to stabilize temporary public workers in situations of abuse and states that this is perfectly constitutional and respectful of the principles of publicity, free competition, equality, merit and capacity. Moreover, and not precisely because of the negotiating will of the ministry, the final wording welcomes much of the amendments that We agree with Catalan trade unionism: the permanence of temporary staff who do not overcome the processes, the inclusion of measures to favor people with approved oppositions, enlargement...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u189	Thank you, President. Members, today we are discussing the Commission's opinion on the draft law on urgent measures for the reduction of temporary employment, an important issue to which the Government has given up the answers and the solutions required, since it should have brought to this House a draft law accompanied by the reports of the consultative bodies, with the participation of all the associations and groups concerned and also of the autonomous communities and local authorities, which are going to have to apply and convene these selective processes and to which they have been given an already elaborated text lacking any debate and consensus. The text we are discussing today is the result of improvisation and precipitation, two words that have accompanied it both in its origin and in its processing. First, because it was passed through a decree-law which is an express regulation, a figure that this authoritarian government quite often abuses. Then came his shameful validation in this House, where the public employees became the object of a shameful marketing to obtain the support of Esquerra, then touching, as you know, that it will be processed as a bill by the emergency procedure. The rushes we have also seen during the presentation, a single call of only half an hour, at eight and a half in the morning, where the PSOE already brought some proposals of transactions that had brought us by wasap just an hour before. And I say compromise proposals because in some my group appeared, when they had asked us nothing about it. During the report of the presentation to the Commission, the same improvisation and haste was also followed, and we were able to see it in an exchange of transactions whose content was changing over and over again. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that a change of chrome in a school yard enjoys greater seriousness and rigour than we could observe here. [[Applauds]] With this history of haste and absolute contempt for the process and the parliamentary debate, you will understand that this is a rule that will put an end to the problem of the temporary nature of public employment. At this point, we still do not know the actual number of places in temporality. Some speak of 800,000 or 600,000; the other day at the appearance the minister said 300,000. Nor has a detailed analysis been made of the time they have been occupied, who they occupy or'how they were accessed, thus not knowing the main object of this rule, which is to whom they are addressed. Therefore, it is impossible to solve what is not known, it is like trying to prescribe a medical treatment without having a diagnosis before. My group has tabled amendments to clarify technical, legal aspects and avoid much litigation. I'm going to focus, for the little time I have left, especially on one. We have put forward proposals to give local entities greater flexibility in the design of calls for selective processes, and we also propose greater stability for public employees in Catalonia, with an incentive that already exists for other autonomous communities. Finally - and this I believe is the most important - we contemplate those colloquially called approved without a place, people who in their day passed a selective process in accordance with the principles of free competition, equality, merit and capacity, proposing that they go directly to the stage of competition when the opposition phase is already validated. An amendment that will stabilize and consolidate the vast majority of interims in sectors such as Justice, with 22% of temporaryity, Education, with 36% or Health, with 45% of temporaryity, and by contrast the sectors where the highest rates of temporaryity of public employment are given. In this bill, the Government and its partners have turned their backs on these sectors absolutely in this text. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will support the amendments proposed by my group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u191	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. I begin by recalling the arrival of the royal decree-law to this Congress in July, which came forward by a very limited margin. We voted no to that proposal and pointed out from the very beginning the shortcomings presented by the royal decree. In his speech and in the Commission, some of these shortcomings have been closed down, others have been improved, there is no doubt, and we have agreed on compromise amendments with other groups which, at least in part, have incorporated our approaches. In addition to these improvements, we have also managed to agree and include two essential amendments for Basque citizenship. Specifically, a specific safeguard is included to respect Navarra's own powers in the field of public service. This was a basic demand of Euskal Herria Bildu in this law, since Navarra is the only autonomous community in the State that has these powers of its own. In short, the transactional amendment agreed with PSOE and Unidos We can provide legal certainty in Navarre in the regulations to regulate the situation of its temporary staff. We have also incorporated an amendment recognizing the capacity of the autonomous communities to develop their stabilization processes, with the aim of achieving a maximum rate of temporality of 8%, as established by law. This will also be done through agreements with trade union organisations, thus strengthening the representation of workers in the development of these processes. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is somewhat fairer for people on time, though not entirely fair, and it is not fair for everyone, it is true. It is true that there are multitudes of fringes and that does not answer everyone, we are not naive. Certainly, the problem was difficult, and more so when it is a question that is overtaken and as any problem that prolongs over time only accumulates more and more difficulties, a mountain of injustices. The matter is not going to be completely resolved. In fact, there is already a clash with realities that some judges are putting on the table because there is already some case in which the courts fix the acting staff with three years in the position. There are many issues that are not overly defined and, among them, we have a doubt as to how the rate of temporality will be achieved by not exceeding 8%. Much remains to be done, the programme remains to be defined as to how that 8% will be accessed for approval by the European Public Administration. With regard to the autonomous communities to which we owe ourselves, the Basque and the Navarra, the situation is much worse than in other places because of the great mobility that is also given in the squares. Nor can we forget something that underlies this whole cluster of irregularities that have given rise to the great problem of the interims and that the abuse of temporality should have as a reference to the Administration that has not called the processes that should have called - yes, all this also remains there in the tinter of the deficiencies -. In the same way, we would have liked this law to contemplate more changes, such as allowing the interims between three and less than six years to submit to the opposition consolidation or stabilization competitions without having to go through the opposition phase, all those so-called approved without a place. It's another one of the lagoons. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u192	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u193	He said that it is fair to acknowledge that the necessary limbs have been put in place to make it easier for so many abusers to access their places; that the limbs have been put in place to paralyse previously called processes and that they are thus governed by this new regulation, as is already happening in some autonomous communities such as, for example, in the Basque Autonomous Community. This does not fix everything, but it does in part fix an unusual problem to which a solution had to be given. Because there are advances - we cannot deny it - and some substantial ones, but not enough to vote in favour, of course. But I am going back to the progress that it represents and we will therefore abstain, because it is progress that, although insufficient, will bring notable improvements for many. [[He ends his speech in Basque, whose text, which he delivers to the Journal of Sessions, is as follows: Eta bihar Euskararen Eguna denez, Administrazian euskaraz aritzeko eskubidea ere bermatu behar dela gogoratu nahi dut. Euskaraz bizi nahi dugulako. It also facilitates translation with the following text: And since tomorrow we celebrate Euskera Day, I would like to remind you that using Euskara in the Administration is also a right to be assured. Because we want to live in Basque]] Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u195	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President. I suppose all of you at some point in your parliamentary activity there has been a subject, there has been a law, there has been a decree, there has been some element that has been transformative, that has been special. For me the conversion of the royal decree-law into this bill has taken away a part of my soul, taken away a part of my energy and taken away many sleepless nights and many tears. And I say this because it is important that the people who will be the receiver of the decisions we make know that we do not do it in abstract, know that we read all their emails, until they are chains and know that we are not immune to their fears, that we share them, that they are ours. Because in politics we are past and only to serve people. [[Applauds]] This preface I wanted to do because I want us to back down - I'm sorry it's today that I only have five minutes to explain myself - at the time this started or received. We had a large number of people, with many years, many years of temporality, who basically responded to groups who would hardly be employable if they remained unemployed, and who were above all feminized and in the field of care. Our intention from the first minute on was to ensure that those places were not lost, and we took this path because you, gentlemen of the PP, and you, gentlemen of the PSOE and the rest of the people who have been running in the administrations of this state did not do the work at the time. And now it turns out that it's us who's responsible for this not going well. No, no, we took a text where there was only the possibility of making OPE, which we knew was harmful to people who could not compete in that equality that you say with the people who had just left school, and we articulated a path that we have been demanding for a long time, convincing that it was constitutional. We said this from the very beginning: we are in favour of the competition for Article 61.6 and Article 61.7. And we argued, we brought judgments from the Constitutional Court, from the Supreme Court, until it became very clear that what the Government did not want to compromise was possible. And that's what we did. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u196	Excuse me, just a moment, Mrs. Vallugera. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u197	It seems to be a lie that they have time to talk to what I'm talking to. What we were going to, I was saying apart from the contest... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u198	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u199	... We are also trying to introduce things that will alleviate the tremendous situation of instability and temporality. Of course we know the European case law and the judgments of the European Court! Of course it is not a sanction! But what we have tried to articulate is not a sanction for the administration, which in the end, by the way, we all pay, but an effective, effective and real way of stabilization, of people staying with their work. What about the fix to extinguish? That it will be declared by many courts, indeed, but I remember it: it does not give the status of official, there is no territorial mobility, there is no internal promotion, and I do not think that these are rules of play. Therefore, objectives: Objective A, to have the status of official; objective B, to have it in its place; objective C, to meet the maximum number of people in a situation of abuse of temporality of our administrations. It is true that it is not the panacea and that we have not managed to stop the calls of the administrations, only of some who have wanted, it is true, but do you know what happens when it is negotiated? What you have to give in to some things. And I'm not proud that I did, no, but if I had wanted the government to implement our system, I would have done it from the start. It has therefore been a six-month fight to convince us that our proposals were feasible, legal and could be assumed by the Government. What haven't we done? Do it in two months; we promised October 31st and we are on December 2nd, and I apologize, I apologize because that has allowed there to be administrations that have been calling. What does that mean, too? That as employees of the Administration and as citizens, now that we have allowed that path and given that opportunity, let's see what the Administration is going to act in good faith with its interims and which ones are not. And I tell the interns, don't tell me they're not going to vote for me because...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u201	It ended immediately.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u202	No, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Vallugera, but your time is up. [[Applauds]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u203	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Comrade Pilar for the work she has done during these months and publicly acknowledge that without the effort and work she has done, it would have been impossible to have the bill that we have today. From the first day I spoke to her on this issue we were clear that what had previously been presented in Royal Decree 14/2021 could not be tolerated and that a change was needed, and I believe that here today the effects of that work are being seen and those changes are being seen. Therefore, my thanks. [[Applauds]] I think that we are all recognizing the changes, even the groups that are publicly expressing criticism with what is finally going to be voted on. They all recognize that very important and significant changes are taking place. The fundamental thing is that these are changes that are going to affect hundreds of thousands of people who are finally going to see how their situation of abuse of temporality is going to be resolved and finally they are going to see how they have access to stabilization. In addition, we believe that this is also for the benefit of the administrations as a whole, because it will allow that experience, merit and capacity that these people have demonstrated for so long - on many occasions, more than twenty years - to remain, have and can continue to be at the service of the administrations. We were told that the merit competition was not possible and now it is shown that it was. The merit competition is incorporated, it is done in a legal way. We said here that it was necessary to do so by making it clear that it could not be done arbitrarily, that we had to give it a legal justification, and we believe that, as reflected in the sixth and eighth additional provisions, it is doing so. This last provision is important because it not only operates on the squares, but it also operates on the people. For what is stated in the eighth provision, it is clear that that square which today is occupied by a person who has been in a situation of temporality for more than five years - she, as a person - even if in that square does not have the five years required by the sixth additional provision, that square must leave through the competition. Therefore, because of the doubts that arose and asked us, let this matter be made clear. On the other hand, it is true that the ninth additional provision that we have agreed with the Socialist Group and with Euskal Herria Bildu, which it does precisely is to reinforce the compulsory nature of the administrations to apply this competition of merits. Another question is whether or not administrations can opt for the application of this merit competition. They may not opt for the application of the merit competition, but it is compulsory to apply to the merit competition provided that the places meet the requirements laid down in this regulation. On the other hand, it is also important that the agreements that we have reached allow this obligation to be extended also to public trading companies, public business entities, public sector foundations and public sector consortia, so that it is not only limited to the very scope of the administrations, but to the whole of this framework, where there are also public workers who are now going to benefit from what is regulated by this law. And regarding what happens in relation to the squares convened by the stabilization processes of 2017 and 2018, I want to tell Mr.Mazón that it is absolutely clear in this law what is done with these squares. If the squares came out through ordinary processes, they will not be affected by this law; if the squares came out linked to the stabilization processes of 2017 and 2018 and were places that were offered but never convened, they will have to go out according to this regulation; if they were places that were offered, they were called, they developed, but they were deserted, they can go out again according to this regulation, and if they are places that are in progress, there is no obligation to stop, although, yes, there is the possibility that they will be negotiated and paralyzed to comply with this regulation, but it is not mandatory. This leads me to say to all those administrations that have convened places in recent months that please paralyze them, that they are fair with interims and interims, that they paralyze these processes, at least those that have not reached the stage of examination, that in many cases some still do not even have lists of members, that have been convened in the last week, that they paralyze them and conform them to the new regulations, because in this way justice will be done with the work that has carried out hundreds of thousands of people taking the chestnuts out of the fire when most needed. So we make a positive assessment, it can't be otherwise. It is true that we have not come to everything we wanted, but it is clear to us that between what entered here with Royal Decree 14/2021 and what comes out with this bill there are very significant, very substantial advances, which above all will benefit people and will cause many people who have been uncertain for many months to finally see the fictitiousness for a process that is legal and constitutional. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u205	Lords of Podemos, lie more that they speak; where there was uncertainty, there will now be more uncertainty, because the law that you are going to pass only speaks of being able, perhaps, to choose the autonomous community, one yes, another no, and the same with local corporations. In short, it is the high indefinition to the umpteenth power, the indefinition put in writing and in the form of a legislative text, and it is the absolute legal uncertainty, both for those interims who occupy places and are in law fraud and for those interims who do not occupy places in law fraud, and for those opponents who are pending competitions, who may or may not be challenged according to the resolution adopted or not by the autonomous community. In short, absolute legal insecurity, which is the last thing our Administration needs and the last thing that the people and families who have worked for the Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the local corporations loyally need, for many years on many occasions, and which are now abandoned by a Government that, however, smiles at them and says it favors them. [[applause]] Now I will explain to you a little bit what are the points of all your hypocrisy that, ultimately, make this absolutely unacceptable standard, especially for people, because they are going to suffer the consequences of your text. I'm starting. We are faced with a law of urgent measures to reduce the temporality in public employment, and it is important that those who hear us know that in Spain the precariousness in private employment is around 25%. Well, the public administration sprays this figure. He gave them the figures - the government gives them, I do not invent them -: in universities, precariousness roza 44,68 %; in health institutions, precariousness in employment roza 47,31, and in non-university teaching, that is, those who educate our children, roza 51,2. It is infamous, and with this rule that you are going to adopt here today, the successive governments that have approved what has allowed this, this level of unacceptable precariousness, they are going to go away with rositas, they are going to go away with rositas because there are no political leaders, since all these decisions are taken by politicians who control the administrations. What the proposal itself seeks is to stabilize, and it speaks of squares. It is sad, because it is not the squares that need to be stabilized but the people who have suffered from the law fraud, which is how it is defined. You start the house on the roof, because the ministry has said that there are 300,000 people in law fraud; associations say that 800,000, and no autonomous community has contributed their figures. Therefore, you will adopt a solution without knowing what the magnitude of the problem is; you will open up, start the operation without having done to this person scanners, x-rays and without knowing what the magnitude of the problem is. You're going to open up the person... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u206	Excuse me for a second, Mr. Figaredo, to interrupt you. I do not want to interrupt the speaker more often in what is left of plenary. Please, I ask you, I beg you to remain silent. If you want to have conversations, you can go out the hall to do it, but not in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u207	It is clear that the Socialist Party is not interested in the situation of the interims in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u208	You can go on, Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u209	Yeah, yeah, I was just going on. It can be seen that the Socialist Party is not interested in the situation of the interims in Spain. In short, you have not carried out that audit. They don't know how many people have been harmed, they don't know what the situation is for each of them. They are supposed to be mostly women and the average age is also supposed to be fifty-two years. You don't know what the family burdens are, you don't know where these people stand out, you don't know how many years they've been occupying the square in particular. In short, you do not have the information to implement the solution. The rule is born flawed, because you set the time limit in 2016. In other words, those who are in law fraud since 2016 are not covered by this rule and yet have been in law fraud for six years, that is, because the law, the labor law, says that it is three years of law fraud. There are people, there are families, there are a lot of people who are going to suffer for this rule and who will go to the street. And the greatest hypocrisy of all: you, the gentlemen of the PSOE and the gentlemen of the Republican Left will repeal the labor reform; for well, to the interim administration who are going to throw into the street you will apply the aim of the labor reform that you so much want to repeal. I mean, tips I don't have for myself. [[Applauds]] I benefit, but then I sell hypocrisy to everyone else, to try to deceive all the Spaniards who listen to them. In short, it is absolutely unacceptable. This issue, which is an exception to Spain's administrative regime, an exception to the merit and capacity regime, would be worth an exception, but it is that this rule is born flawed and will be the first of many exceptions, because they do not establish a sanctioning regime for those administrations and politicians who repeat and repeat and repeat... [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u211	You took away a few seconds from me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u212	Mr Figaredo, I have stopped your time, and do not discuss it with the Presidency. Your time is up, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u213	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to focus the debate a little bit, because I have heard here this afternoon some statements that lead me to think that some of you ladies and gentlemen have not read the text that we are going to put to the vote, if you have read it, do not understand it or are actually making a twisting change in the reality of what we are going to adopt. So, first of all, I wanted to focus the debate. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a problem that our administration has that is intolerable. The rates far exceeded 30% on average and in some administrations more than 40% and a response had to be given. The Government of Spain has encountered an inherited problem, essentially inherited from the People's Party's Austericide policies with zero replacement rates for many years, for many years. [[applause]] This, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, makes it clear that the People's Party - and its proponent has shown today - likes to lie. Mrs De Luna, are you going to say in this House that I did not speak to you before the handling of this bill and you told me that the People's Party did not want to know anything? At least don't lie in this House; don't lie, please. [[Applauds]] If the People's Party were to be ruled in this country at this time, could you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what we would be talking about? You know, Rajoy's style: pure smoking and spending time, and thousands of temporary workers and thousands of administrations without giving legal certainty to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, what has the government done? First, to agree in the sectorials with the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and also with the autonomous communities a solution to this very serious problem, which also has many edges and a lot of differentiated casuistics, and second, to approve it with the majority trade union centres of this country at the negotiating table. Finally, today we must recognise - at least we, those who are here, with legislative capacity, with those capacities that serve to change people's lives - that in this Parliament this bill has been improved by parliamentary work. Whoever wanted to do it - we always said it - had the door open, and who did not want to always put himself in the opposite position, but wanted to put this in value because it is also fair to recognize it. I have heard some statements that I want to answer. To VOX and Mr Figaredo today I say one thing: You are going to vote against the public workers of Spain who work today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you fall for the myth, because you are only looking for an opposite position; the slightest expression to vote against. Today, these workers are turning their backs, because the solution we are sure to give, ladies and gentlemen, is not perfect, but it is sensible and constitutional, so that in our country, in 2024, that 8% is the maximum replacement rate, which I also believe is reasonable. I have heard some other statement that I do not want to stop answering. This has generated much controversy in our country - because it is a very important problem -. The Socialist Party and the government could have acted as the People's Party did in 2017 and 2018: free opposition, everyone looking for life. However, we have acted responsibly, recognizing that a constitutional solution had to be given to those high rates, because the abuse of temporality had occurred. By the way, many administrations in which they govern and have governed the People's and Citizens' Party - which has also touched power and now no longer has the same characteristics as before - have made no decision to improve these rates of temporality. So, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day, and I am addressing all the temporary workers in this country: we have managed, parliamentaryly speaking, to agree, negotiate and put a text that will go to the Senate and that I hope will be adopted soon to give a sensible and constitutional solution. This parliamentary group has therefore complied, just as the Government has complied with its negotiating parameters. I thank all the rapporteurs of the Commission and also, of course, the lawyers for the work they have done. I think it's a great day for public employment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u215	Opinion on the draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and other measures to strengthen the financial and social sustainability of the public pension system. In order to defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also establish a position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, because of the characteristics of the territorial distribution of the population and the differences with regard to age groups, public pensions are a substantial element for the sustainability of all territories, a basic factor, although not always identified as such, for territorial balance. In many small Spanish municipalities in rural areas pensions are the main part not only of the income of many families of retirees, but also of the income of all the inhabitants of the municipality. Given the serious territorial imbalances and the functional crisis in many territories, we cannot lose sight of this socio-territorial role of pensions. Thus, the annual revaluation of pensions according to the consumer price index, a principle incorporated in this bill, should be a guarantee of security for current and future retirees, without forgetting their positive impact on the population sustainability of many territories. [[The Lord]] For this reason, we are particularly concerned that public pensions are strained by the ageing population, as there are only 2.3 contributors per pensioner when four decades ago the ratio was 5.3 and, within so many others, there will be only one according to the projections of the INE...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u219	Mr Sayas López has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u220	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. What the Government brings us to this House today is not a reform, it is directly a sandblast, a sandblast in what hurts the Spaniards the most, which is in employment, just in the area in which we can afford the least. Do you believe that a country that is flagging - at the head of Europe - unemployment, a country that has four out of ten young people without a job opportunity, can afford to put a tax on employment? For that is the solution that the Government is bringing us, which is also not understanding that what Spain needs to support pensions is precisely to create employment. We need two million unemployed Spaniards to join in work, because that is going to mean two things: firstly, they are going to contribute, and secondly, they are not going to receive an unemployment benefit. That is the sustainability factor that our pensions need, not putting a tax on job creation at a time when our economy has fallen by 11%, at a time when prices have risen by 5.6%, at a time when electricity has increased by 300 %, at a time when petrol or diesel has increased by 100 % and where there is no company that can sustain competitiveness for longer. This reform of the Government has a negative impact on the competitiveness of enterprises, on job creation and, therefore, on the contrary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u221	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had confidence in a cordial and intensive work in the Toledo Pact. We worked intensively and, in turn, had meetings in the ministry with the minister - welcome, minister - and I believed you. I believed him when he told us - even in his office, alone - what the deadlines were going to be, how you were going to work, what problems you had within the government, how you saw it with the social partners, how far the government was going to go: in no case are we going to... Then, it was decided a topic that is going to be for the next twenty or thirty years in six days; it became public, the presentation met twenty-four hours later, the Commission met forty-eight hours later and, in the end, it is a modification like the one made by the PP at the time. You have done so without political consensus - perhaps because you believe that the next twenty, ten or fifteen years will be governing you - and without consensus with entrepreneurs. What does that mean? That this is not guaranteeing the pension of the next twenty neither fifteen nor thirty nor four nor six or eight years, which will be wet paper to the first change. Well, the process with Europe is being carried out. All right. Do you know what I'm saying? You cooked it yourself, you eat it and we hope that there will ever be a government in this country that realizes that the issue of pensions is not a matter of numerical majority, but of political, social, entrepreneurial and trade union consensus, and always telling the truth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u223	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u224	Thank you, President. Minister, we will vote against, because this proposal, although it repeals the most damaging aspects imposed by the PP in 2013, does so with the price of consolidating those cuts made by the PSOE and Convergence i Unió in 2011. By the way, always, in the PSOE argumentary, by the letter 'cup' comes the same: to those diles that agree with the Catalan right. But it is clear - and in the votes in the Catalonian Parliament too we see it - that you and the Catalan right share much more the economic model, as we saw in that 2011 pension counter-reform and as we see in many issues. That 2013 was an infamous counter-reform – and it was the sustainability factor, and it was the non-revaluation – does not make 2011 a good counter-reform. And this is consolidated with today's vote we cannot share it, neither the extension of the retirement age to 67, nor the extension of the basis of calculation to twenty-five years - and it seems that it will soon be many more years still - nor the consolidation of the reducing coefficients so that the people who retire in advance do not receive the full pension, contrary to what the people of Asju 40 have been claiming. It is true that to swallow the pill, positive things are incorporated into the text, but that would only be always if they were developed, since in the 2011 text itself there were also positive issues, such as the case of early retirements due to heavy or toxic work, which ten years later have not been developed and I remind you, Minister, of your commitment to asbestos workers. A reform of the left, in any case, doesn't just worry about squared the accounts...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Botran Pahissa; your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating, following a hasty and deaf procedure, as is the case in this debate, the pension reform bill; a reform called to sustain the protection of our retirees, which, however, does only perpetuate a long aggravation to the young people of Spain, to perpetuate an intergenerational gap that goes beyond income levels - that is to say, to extend to personal expectations and to the vital project of young people. The data are raw and hard: today 20 % of Spanish workers under the age of 30 are on the verge of poverty; today the unemployment rate for those under the age of 25 in Spain is 37 %, the second highest in Europe, only behind Greece; today two out of three young people still live at their parents' house, because facing the average rental price would mean that 93% of their average wage would be allocated to housing. In the last decade, the average annual wage of young people has risen by only 0.73% over a decade! In the same period, according to his ministry, the average amount of a retirement pension has risen by 33%. And in this tragic context you are proposing to increase the burden on the workers and mortgage the future of the young without even guaranteeing the sustainability of the pension system, and I do not say it, the liberals say it, not Citizens, says the governor of Banco de España, said it this week. What reasons do liberals then have for supporting this bill? None. None, because they haven't even allowed us to improve it. Its mechanism only means raising social contributions, its mechanism harms job creation, its mechanism burdens on the backs of precarious young people the maintenance of pensions. You say that your mechanism, this MEI, is fair, because the increase in contributions is not a cost, but a pre-financing, that is, that the contributions of the boomers will pre-finance the pensions of the boomers. Okay. And what do you propose to finance young people's pensions? Anything for your quotes? They don't propose anything. Liberals continue to strive to improve this law to put young people at the centre of the debate through two aspects. On the one hand, we propose an alternative mechanism, a mechanism in which pensions are valued with the CPI as a rule, provided that the salaries of young people also grow as much or as the CPI. On the other hand, the second mechanism, or the second way in which we want to focus this debate on youth, is to replace the ordinary CPI with a specific CPI for pensioners, since the consumption patterns of retirees, of pensioners, are different from that of the rest of the population. Many pensioners' expenses are already subsidized, such as transport, such as medicine, so revaluing pensions without taking this into account is an aggravation to young people. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this law is even more striking for young people. Abandoning young people is an option, it is not inevitable, and it is the choice of this Government. I am sorry, but it is not the option of the liberals and we are not going to support this reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u227	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, they want to make this reform a progressive one, but the reality is that we are in front of the implementation of pension cut-back policies. Its proposal consolidates the most damaging aspects of the 2011 reform: it keeps the retirement age at 67 and the increase in the calculation period from 15 to 25, although we are already told that it will rise to 35, which would mean a further cut in the amount with a drop of between 6 and 10 %; it penalizes early retirement, encourages delay, does not recover partial retirement from the 60 to favour youth employment and, above all, does not raise minimum pensions. In the face of a right and an ultra-right to which any advance of rights for workers seems very much to them, however small it may be, but also in the face of a government which is said to be progressive and which, however, insists and persists on cuts, the BNG maintains a position of firmness, from the left, in defense of decent pensions and of the recovery of social rights, because, from consistently left positions, neither new cuts can be defended nor sought to justify itself with which the criteria of the right would be even worse. That is why we cannot support this proposal. The BNG is with the retirees' collectives who reject this reform on the street, with the pensioners' and workers' collectives who today went out to the streets of Galicia in defense of decent pensions. No, ladies and gentlemen of the government, cuts are not inevitable. We know, and so do you, that if you want, you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u229	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today is one of those days when we're gonna leave here with a sweet sour taste. Decrees and laws will be passed in which some of us will always have that bitter taste that could have gone much further and, finally, we have stayed halfway there. We must recognize that there is progress in this law; there is progress and we recognize it: there is the elimination of the sustainability factor, there is the audit to Social Security, there is the paragraph to link pensions to the minimum wage, though unclear, but we believe that all the reduction coefficients for all those people who have worked more than forty years, not just the smallest pensions, should be eliminated. Public pensions should be shielded in the Constitution and the retirement age or period of pension calculation should be avoided. So, sour flavor today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u231	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the headline has advanced to you: we are going to vote in favour of this reform, of this law, but I will explain to you the reasons that lead us to make a serious warning to the government at this point. For our political trajectory we understand that it is a responsible position to move forward with reform within the framework of the Toledo Pact, which has always been a place where we have made policy, where we have felt comfortable and understand that, although little, we must move towards the postulates of the Toledo Pact. But just as it is responsible to move forward in this direction, it is also responsible to be honest and denounce that these are not the measures that will ensure the sustainability of the system, which will have to take many more measures to ensure the sustainability of the system. In this context, if one looks at the law we are dealing with today, the form, certainly - we have already commented on in the Commission - could have greatly improved. The main issue of this reform is through an amendment. We are glad that certain amendments on disability or on notaries have been successful, and we believe that they are a great contribution, but the method remains the method of patching, the solution at the last minute and is sometimes far removed from the method of the Toledo Pact, with in-depth discussions, with documented debate and with rigour. Social dialogue is very important, but it is also very important for the Government to understand that it has to dialogue with the parliamentary groups in this House, with the Members who end up voting on the laws, and most importantly, the most important thing is that with this reform and with what has to come the sustainability of the system becomes, now, yes, a red line, to continue to support this type of action or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u233	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we have come up to the rostrum to show once again that we cannot support this reform. We will not support it because it weakens the sustainability of pensions, attacks the future of young people and is contrary to what Spain needs, even contrary to what the minister himself said when he was president of the AIReF. There has not been a single call to the People's Party during the entire parliamentary process of this law to see what disposition we were in. This is what the ministry sought with the consensus, this is the state pact that the minister sought. Not a single call to the People's Party and once again support themselves in Bildu and Esquerra Republicana, the groups that, incidentally, did not support the Toledo Pact, the groups that want to break national unity. You put the element of greater social cohesion in the hands of those who want to destroy the nation. We cannot and do not want to be part of a change that thinks about the electoral key and not about the best for Spain and the Spanish; a law that only thinks about today, but not about the sustainability of tomorrow or the last morning; a reform that, for not to like, should not like neither Mr Escrivá. What writer do we have to believe? The former president of the AIReF, the minister, the interview writer or the rectification writer? Look, Minister, this is what you presented when you were President of the AIReF. [[Show a document]] Any resemblance to what I bring here today is pure coincidence. It has nothing to do with what I was saying, even working on the exchange of contributions for unemployment - I suppose Mrs Yolanda Díaz has not let you change those changes in contributions -. You said that the quotations in Spain were too high to raise them further. Well, it brings us here today an increase in contributions, that employment tax which is only going to make it difficult for jobs. That is what you bring us here today, Minister, that is, once again, what you bring us as a solution for pensions in Spain. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Escrivá, deny and affront to what allowed the European Commission to make no recommendation to Spain since 2013 on pensions, one of the measures that made, as you yourself said, pleasant and manageable the problem of pensions. Do you remember when you said this, Mr. Minister, referring to the sustainability factor that you have so missed today? Those words were yours, Minister. Moreover, the Commission itself said that these reforms contributed to ensuring the long-term sustainability and adequacy of the pension system, and its reform is the opposite by chance. The Governor of the Banco de España told him before yesterday and, between a minister who says something every day or the Governor of the Banco de España, let me create the Governor of the Banco de España, Minister. Before being a minister, as I said earlier, I said that the contributions were six points above the OECD average. It is now pushing through the back door the mechanism of intergenerational equity, even through an amendment to try to skip the mandatory reports; a mechanism in which the problem passes to the younger generations, which is quite unfair and not intergenerational, especially if we take into account that we are the European country with the most youth unemployment. They also shock their optimistic calculations, dismantled and denied by almost all. If someone was missing to deny them, yesterday the OECD did. Faced with its slogans, real data say that we have an inflation of 5.6%, which is going to sink savings and growth, let alone sustainability. And they will already tell us how they will do, if they stick to the wheels of job creation, to increase employment contributions by 9%: with their new employment tax and with a Minister of Labour who is committed to repealing a labour law that, she said this morning, provides incredible data on job creation, that is, the Labour Reform of the People's Party is allowing this data to be congratulated on by the Minister of Labour. [[Applauds]] This is the reality, Mrs Díaz, rather than reform, rather than counter-reform, rather than repeal, what you have to do is improve labour reform, but not repeal it, but give it greater flexibility and greater opportunities for young people to have greater opportunities; that is what young people are asking for. They have not taken into account a single amendment from the People's Party, not one, Minister, nor for the future of the system, not for talent, not for conciliation, not for families, not for the benefit of the collectives at the service of the Spaniards, nor for freedom and the promotion of savings. This is what you present to us, a twirling totally inconsistent with what you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u235	Thank you very much, Mr Cabezón; your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u236	Minister, President, Members of Parliament, welcome on. This Congress will approve this afternoon what is a bad pension reform for us and, therefore, will not count on the support of Euskal Herria Bildu. They will remember that letter sent by Mr Rajoy's government in 2016 announcing a ridiculous 0.25% rise in pensions. That was the spark that caused the general indignation of the pensioners and the rest of society, pensioners who still continue today in the streets of Euskal Herria and the whole State defending and demanding decent and just pensions. Five years have passed, which are reminding us of the lack of respect for the rights that so much struggle cost. Hence, and from here, our recognition of your struggle and example and, especially, our respect for your demands. Today, that 0.25 % is going to be history, but it is going to be thanks to the struggle and social pressure that these movements have developed. And it is also true that this reform contains some demands and some of them have been introduced by the sovereignist forces of the left, but we recognize that this reform is still far from meeting these just demands minimally. Thus, the sustainability factor is repealed; pensions are revalued to the CPI although with a limited CPI; a public audit of inappropriate social security expenditure is promised; for the first time, the reference to the European Social Charter is to be collected by law in relation to minimum pensions and its amount is promised to be linked to the evolution of the inter-professional minimum wage. The principle of sufficiency that ensures the non-cutting of pensions is also incorporated through the minimum maintenance of the current replacement rate. Is that progress? Of course they are, but they are totally insufficient. We cannot be complacent because it is not a good reform and we say it without half inks. This is believed by the pensioner movements of Euskal Herria, the Basque union majority and also Euskal Herria Bildu. A historic opportunity to create a decent pension system from the public is being missed. And the opportunity to have real social participation is also being lost, because this law has been developed by excluding the pensioner movements and the most representative unions of the nations of the State. Participation has been limited to a dialogue table that neither responds nor represents the pensioner movements of Euskal Herria or the rest of the state, nor our social or trade union reality. We therefore warn the Government that the second part of the reform, which will come in the coming weeks, is the last opportunity to respond to a more just pension system. It is not permissible to maintain minimum pensions in amounts of poverty or to have the obligation to extend the retirement age, or the indiscriminate increase in contributory periods, or the high discounts on involuntary early retirement pensions. It is time to listen and give voice to the pensioners and not to rule behind them and them. We hope this Government, we hope the PSOE and we can show their political will, which they have not shown so far because it is just what has been lacking in this reform to create a pension reform that will restore the rights that have been curtailed in successive reforms over the past twenty years. Today we want the progress that has been made in this project, which there are, which the pensioners and pensioners have achieved through their struggle and their social pressure, to be a reality. We do not support this reform, but we are going to hold a critical abstention so that this progress, although limited and limited, can be doors, future paths, to improve the lives of those pensioners who need it the most. As we have already said and warned, in Euskal Herria Bildu we will put all our capacities so that in the next phase of the reform the demands of pensioners and pensioners can be real. As long as we cannot have sovereignty in order to have a proper, dignified and fair Basque public pension system, the left-wing forces of this House must unite forces here, and alongside social mobilization we must push the Government to ensure that the rights of pensioners are finally law. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u237	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u238	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the Commission's opinion on the bill in relation to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u239	Mr. Legarda, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u240	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the Commission's opinion on the draft law on measures to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions and the sustainability of their public system. I anticipate that we will vote in favour of it, in line with our position both in the paper and in the Commission, and with what has been our position long ago with some of the measures that are now under way. Thus, and with regard to the linkage of the pension update with the CPI, it should be remembered that its inclusion in Recommendation No. 2 of the Toledo Pact was a precursor in the general budgets for 2018 and 2019 through amendments made by this Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, which gave time for the Toledo Pact to conclude the debate on this issue with the current content and in the same sense as that promoted by our parliamentary group in those budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, other measures of the initiative we are discussing tend to redress the most unfavourable situation in which those forced pre-retirees find themselves in crisis situations and under less favourable conditions than other collectives, including forced pre-retirees, with more beneficial coefficients. For its part, the encouragement of the extension of the retirement age, both through the modification of the coefficients applicable to pre-retirement to make it more burdensome or through other measures to encourage the prolongation of working life, will also be supported by our parliamentary group. On the other hand, and in relation to the measure that has given rise to the most debate, you will also have our vote in favour. The definitive repeal of the former sustainability factor, which was paralysed in its implementation since the Budget Act 2018 after the adoption of an amendment also from our parliamentary group, is now replaced by another formula that allows us to maintain the intergenerational commitment of our public pension system, with the expectation of receiving a decent and sufficient pension by current contributors in a system of distribution. Thus, we opt for a formula that essentially implies an increase in income through the increase of contributions compared to the reduction of expenses - or, what is the same, of pensions -, suspended since 2018 and today abrogated: the factor of sustainability. To this end, we choose to provide liquidity to the Reserve Fund in order to be able to cope with the massive incorporation into retirement of the generations of the baby boom, an option that we consider to be more fair and equitable than others that are based on the impoverishment of pensions; more in line with the social and humanist vocation of the idea and action of the Basque Nationalist Party, and which provides the workers' collective, especially the younger ones, with the margins of certainty and security that they need to participate more actively in the building of a more just and supportive society. Finally, I would like to point out that there are also aspects of the initiative that cause us concern, such as some biases in the vision of Social Security and its agents, which tend to blur the competences that the Statute of Gernika recognizes and attributes to the Basque institutions. In any case, we'll be careful. The last point will not lead us to change our vote in favour of the text we are debating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u241	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mrs. Vazquez, do you have anyone else in the group to talk to? [[Laughter]] Please, silence for the third time. [[Protests by Mrs Vázquez Blanco]] I've looked at it conveniently. Please, be quiet. Can you start the intervener? Start.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u242	Thank you, President. The present and future of pensions are at stake in a law that is presented to us in two fascicles. Today we will discuss only the first of them, and before half a year we will discuss the second. In this first part of pension reform, the first thing we want to highlight is how the text has changed since we first saw it a few weeks ago. We were presented with an initial text which said that, as it came from the social dialogue, it was supposed not to be changed. However, anyone who knows this document knows that what we are voting on today is something very different from what was before, I am no longer saying what was a few months ago or a few years ago. What we are voting on is an improved text, yes, but it is a text that incorporates for the first time several historical claims that up to a few days ago seemed impossible. As you know, and as it has been exposed for years from this rostrum, the pension system is safe and sustainable; it is today, it was yesterday and it will be in the future, and if anyone believes otherwise it is because there is an account imposed by financial capital and adopted by the State to try to favor private pensions and other financial products. In the face of this scandalous lack of truth, what needs to be done is to give a voice to the retired pensioners and contributors. For this reason, all that has been achieved is more merit than anyone who has fought in the street to get it than in the Republican Left, it is merit above all of the hundreds of thousands of organized pensioners; without the organized pensioners in associations like Coespe and in unions and demonstrations like En Marea, nothing would have been possible. It is thanks to all of them that in half a year we will have a public audit of the pension system from 1967 to 2019, an audit that will demonstrate the looting of the single Social Security box and, consequently, will show that the working class has already paid more than their pensions. [[Applauds]] In fact, it has paid so much - even baby boomers - that there are things that should have been financed, as you know, by the income of capital through taxes, via the Ministry of Finance, and instead they have been paid through the Social Security box. They have not been given anything, they have earned everything; it is deferred wages, not taxes on work, deferred wages, let us not forget. This audit will serve as a basis for arbitrage of forms of economic compensation for the looting of Social Security, so that the reserves to which pensioners of the future are entitled can be re-nourished on a regular basis. For this purpose the audit will serve the Social Security, starting with the restitution of the 103 billion euros that the Court of Auditors requires to be entered in the Social Security box, is required. It would certainly be a good start for a new pension hut. [[Applauds]] This is called sustainability. It should also be noted that, without the strength of the organized pensioner movement and of the trade unionists, it would not have been possible to force compliance once and for all with Article 109 of the General Law on Social Security, which obliges the State not to indebtedness social security, as has been done, with illegitimate loans, with illegitimate credits, but to do so through direct transfers, as it will be from now on, starting with contributions of more than EUR 20 billion, more than EUR 20 billion per year by the Treasury to the Social Security box. The loans and loans have ended, and the door is opened to a new cancellation of the social security debt with the State, and that is thanks to you; as well as the fact that we have managed by law to ensure that the current level of public benefits of the distribution system, on which our social security is based, is measured by their replacement rate - and that is what people know what they understand to be very important - or to condition the future of the future law, which must address the adequacy of pensions according to the European Social Charter or 90% of the SMI, and that is also very important. However, we are aware that not everything has been triumphs, that we may have disappointed apart from our people, for we have failed to include all our demands in this first part of the negotiation. We know, for example, that although we have achieved changes that improve the conditions of the poorest pensioners with long contributory careers, of those pensioners who earn less than 900 euros - we have managed to do so - having contributed 40 years, injustice persists in many other pensioners with long contributory careers, and we do not abandon this struggle, we must solve it. The list of pending claims is very long and we will continue to fight, as everyone knows. But, finally, from the deep respect of those who think that what we have achieved is not enough, I want to say one thing: the law that is to be adopted today is not ours, but the social achievements that have been achieved today would not have been possible without the Republican Left of Catalonia either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u243	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u244	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have moved on to a time when it was understood that the economic booms were enjoyed only by the rich, and that the crises had to be paid by our pensioners with more poverty. Today we will show that things could always be done differently. In the 2008 crisis we saw how bipartisanism cuts pensions. In 2011, the retirement age was increased and pensions were temporarily frozen. But the worst came with the government of Mariano Rajoy, when we exceeded six million unemployed people; there, while the People's Party rescued the banks and made a tax amnesty for their friends, it was our pensioners and our pensioners who rescued their families in unemployment or working precariously with their pensions. In 2013, the People's Party government thanked our pensioners for their services with a pension cuts reform, eliminating the revaluation of the CPI, with the damned - as I have said before - 0.25% and the sustainability factor. With this reform our pensioners have lost about 420 euros in the last ten years; even the unions and the IMF have already warned them. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, passed 135 of the Constitution while failing to comply with article 50, which provides adequate, regularly updated and sufficient pensions. And everything for what? To privatize public pensions, because the People's Party sees only one thing in pensions as a huge possibility of making a deposit. Such defachation had, that we had to listen to Minister Fatima Báñez defending in 2018 that the pensions had risen by 0.03%. Yes, listen carefully, 19 cents for minimum pensions in six years of your government. Next to you, Mr. Married, there are only Rajoy, Aznar and VOX. It was a lot more expensive for them than the letter they sent to the pensioners than the misery of rising pensions they made. But that time is over, there is now a progressive coalition government with Unidad Podemos, and we are demonstrating that crises can be overcome by strengthening pensions, and Europe agrees. [[Applauds]] With this law we repeal the 2013 reform of the People's Party, and return to the re-evaluation of the CPI. Now we know that Citizens don't like this either. With this law we are back in compliance with the Constitution, but it is also that minimum and non-contributory pensions are going to rise more than inflation, to 3.5%, and a review is going to be made in one year with the aim of increasing them to comply with the European Social Charter. We have taken the wrong spending out of the so-called pension hedge, so we have ended the deficit and we are going to do an audit to put, black on white, where every euro of that wrong spending went. As Minister Yolanda Díaz recalled yesterday, when the People's Party came to the government the pension hut had 66,851 million euros, when they left it pulling with less than 5 billion. In addition, with the Intergenerational Equity Mechanism in the next ten years we will be increasing income, thus guaranteeing the public pension system. Widow's pensions of de facto couples are also equated with those of marriages, and the pension is recognized for women who are victims of male violence. Look, today we've known the employment data, and we've been creating jobs for nine consecutive months. With the People's Party it took us eleven years to recover from the crisis, but with this progressive government it took only two years, and with a pandemic in the middle, to reduce the unemployment that existed when we joined the government. We are now also going to repeal the labour reform of the precariousness of the People's Party, and stable contracts are going to be put in place so that, together with the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, better contributions and the sustainability of pensions are to be ensured. I'm on my way. We have come this far thanks to the social dialogue and thanks to our pensioners, who have fought it on the street. We have shown today that things could be done differently, and we have succeeded. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u245	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with evidence. The only way to maintain the purchasing power of pensions is to ensure the sustainability of public accounts. And what do we find? For with a bill that will mean, first, an increase in the structural deficit of the public accounts, and not VOX says, the governor of the Banco de España also says, who has indicated that with this new reform, first, the expenditure on pensions will rise by more than 4 percentage points of GDP, which in numbers are 50 billion euros per year. Secondly, the proposed measures will only be able to cover less than half of that increase, at best. Thirdly, a gap of between 2 and 3 percentage points of GDP would have to be compensated; in figures, between EUR 25 billion and EUR 37 billion per year. It means that we have a government committed to increasing the already enormous structural deficit of the Spanish public accounts; a structural deficit that the European Commission places at 5.2% of GDP. It is irresponsible not to propose measures to reduce unnecessary public spending, thus compensating expenditure on pensions, but without increasing the public deficit. [[Applauds]] It is a bill that, with the introduction of the Intergenerational Equity Mechanism, will increase employment costs. It is sad to see how you legislate from behind to reality and against common sense. Because it is to legislate from the back to the reality not to understand that the costs to employment should not be increased in a country with 3.2 million unemployed people, in a country that leads unemployment statistics in the European Union. Because it is to legislate from the back to the reality not to realize that the main harms of an increase in the costs to employment are not the big companies nor the big corporations, Mr de Podemos, the big harms are the autonomous and the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] Because it is to legislate from the back to the reality not to understand that raising costs to employment particularly harms labour-intensive enterprises. Because it is to legislate from the back to the reality and ignore that in a globalized economy the rise in costs encourages the relocation of investment. Because it is to legislate from the back to the reality that raising costs to employment makes it difficult for young people to access the labour market. It is unheard of to take these measures in a country where youth unemployment exceeds 30%. [[The lady]] They legislate from behind to reality and against common sense, because it is a lack of common sense not to understand that the best way to increase collection sustainably is by increasing tax bases, that is, through job creation. Because it is a lack of common sense not to understand which reforms based on cost growth tend to slow down growth. And what happens when you legislate from your back to reality and against common sense? It happens that drastic measures are being taken, as in 2011, when the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party froze the pensions to more than six million Spaniards and reduced the salary by 5% to public employees. [[Applauds]] It happens that growth is slowing down and we become the only country in the euro area in which, by the end of 2022, we will not have recovered the levels of GDP for 2019. In VOX we think that in order to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions it is essential to ensure the sustainability of public accounts. And this is only possible if the great pending reform that the Spaniards have is achieved; a reform that means reducing political spending and eliminating the duplication and inefficiencies of the autonomous state. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Saez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u248	Good afternoon, good afternoon, everyone. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions because we believe in it, and because it will generate confidence. With this law we project towards the citizens a certain future of our pension system, the pensioners yes, but also the young, the elderly, the workers, the migrant people, the disabled, because this bill affects cross-cutting Spanish society. With this reform we have regained the path of the best reformist tradition that has as its last milestone in 2011, and that was the consensus; a bill that goes beyond the 350 Members of Parliament that we are today in this Chamber and that therefore goes beyond the short boating that we sometimes have to see in this Chamber. It involves the strengthening of the identity signs of our Social Security, clearing up the uncertainties arising from the demographic challenge, and it is approved at an exceptional time, because no one escapes that we are in the midst of the pandemic - ending - but that has seriously hit institutions such as the health system or the Social Security itself. The importance of this bill lies in consensus, agreement, social dialogue and, of course, dialogue in the Toledo Pact - one of the strengths and for which we are world leaders - and so our own Spanish civil society recognizes. There are three words underlying this bill, three of which are: consensus, commitment and compliance - compliance with Europe and with citizens - but also the commitment of political forces and social actors to building an even progressive and common-based model of society. This bill is based on the genuine principles of social security, from intergenerational solidarity, that of pension sufficiency - therefore, the CPI is relinked to pensions; here we have to recognize the struggle of millions of pensioners who went out on the street to respond to an unsustainable reform, which was the reform of the People's Party - but it is also based on the principle of contribution. [[applause]] Today the labour market has given us very good news that, from humility and prudence, we have to say it here, but it seems that Mr Sayas has not heard the news today. More than 19.7 million members of Social Security, something very important. [[Applauds]] This bill seeks to sustain public accounts and the MEI will serve as a flexible mechanism that will allow us to analyse, little by little, how the system works. From where? From the social dialogue and the Toledo Pact. And at last, we will end up with something that is fraught with credibility: the factor of sustainability. Social and economic sustainability are therefore essential, but it is also, of course, the improvement of protective action in this bill. I would like to highlight the efforts of all the parliamentary groups that have wanted to join them. I will appoint three spokespersons who have accompanied us, from 2016 until now, in this transformation of Social Security. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u249	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u250	They are the spokespersons of Podemos-En Comú Podemos, and for all, obviously, Aina Vidal; of PNV, Íñigo Barandiaran, and of Esquerra, Jordi Salvador. But, in addition, other parliamentary groups have wanted to accompany us in this improvement of action. The equality of the widowhood of de facto couples, thanks to the push of More Country; the recognition of the effort of long contributory careers, especially since January 2002, thanks to a multitude of groups who have wanted to join in a transactional; or persons with disabilities, thanks to the PReCAT, and, of course, giving prompt response to an issue that the Toledo Pact urged: sufficiency. We said that social sustainability is as important as economic sustainability, as clearly credibility. This bill creates credibility in citizenship, and especially in young people. Mention was made by Esquerra's spokesman to the audit that he will be accounting for from 1967 until now, which will allow to generate confidence and tranquility. The corporal. Here we have to ask why this reform, gentlemen of the People's Party and of the right in general, hurts so much. Because it's a class reform, because it's a reform that's saying that you can pay private pensions and that of this that you give them. [[Applauds]] And we're not gonna let that happen. Today, the 2013 pension reform is definitely being buried. Today we have been able, among all, to transform reality and to improve the lives of many millions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u252	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the work, involvement and commitment of the parliamentary groups that have participated in the processing of this bill. Thanks to its work, the House has tested here a bill of enormous stature and importance. It is a law that improves the living conditions of our fellow citizens; that brings certainty; that brings security to our pensioners and future pensioners; that establishes a stable, shared and ambitious framework on the functioning of our pension system. I want to emphasize the importance of what you are adopting today. It is a reform that complies with the country's commitments in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which in its Component 30 sets out a timetable for work on which the recommendations of the Toledo Pact should be translated into concrete measures. We set ourselves a very demanding calendar. We are doing so and we will continue to do so with the level of ambition that our citizens deserve on a subject like this. The pension reform guarantees, once and for all, the purchasing power of pensions, current pensioners and future pensioners; it leaves behind a stage of uncertainty and gives the system tools to meet the challenges of the coming decades. It is an ambitious reform that restores transparency in social security accounts, through the principle of separation of sources, which introduces important measures to align the effective retirement age with the ordinary age, the most important measure to strengthen the sustainability of the system. In addition, it establishes an Intergenerational Equity Mechanism that will act as an additional safety mattress in the coming decades, and that will protect the pensions of young people who have been aggressively laminated with the sustainability factor that this reform eliminates. It is a reform made on the basis of consensus and in the spirit of consensus. Made on the basis of consensus, because your starting point is the recommendations of the Toledo Pact that you adopted with a 262 vote majority in favour and only two votes against in this House. These recommendations have been our guide, and they will continue to be. I have said this many times, you have done ambitious and thorough work, and fulfilling these ambitious and thorough recommendations has not been an easy task; that is precisely why the work of implementing them has had to be divided into several phases. It is a reform that is not only born of consensus, but is made through consensus. We have involved the social partners who, within the framework of the social dialogue and after many months of intense work, have contributed, contributed and, ultimately, have agreed on the bulk of what is being voted on here today. I would like to thank you again from here for your constructive spirit and your willingness to agree. And it is a reform with a spirit of consensus, because in all this reform we have worked to incorporate and count on the voice of all of you, with our best constructive spirit and dialogue. It is you who have paved the way for us and it is you who, in the parliamentary process, have improved and consolidated it. He concluded with a call to all groups, to those who have supported the bill and to those who have not. Our hand is still stretched out, we want to continue counting on you, on all of you. We want them to be involved in all the remaining steps; immediately in the Senate process, but, more importantly, in the second block of measures to implement the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. As you know, in 2022 we have to make progress on measures such as the new system for the contribution of self-employed by real income, the boost to supplementary social security and the creation of the new social security agency, among others. Put all your constructive spirit into this task. We will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u253	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. Given the number of votes, the voting time has been reduced from fifteen to ten seconds. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Senate amendments. Draft law amending the consolidated text of the Law on Traffic, Movement of Motor Vehicles and Road Safety approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 6/2015 of 30 October 2015 on driving licences and permits by points. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to paragraph 3 of the Single Article in relation to Article 10 of the consolidated text of the Traffic Act; amendment adding a new paragraph to the single article, adding an article 11a to the consolidated text; amendment adding a new paragraph to the single article in relation to Article 15 of the consolidated text; amendment introducing a new paragraph in the single article in relation to Article 64.5 of the consolidated text; amendment introducing a new paragraph in the single article in relation to Article 66.1 of the consolidated text; amendment to paragraph 9 of the single article in relation to Article 77 of the consolidated text; amendment to paragraph 18 of the single article in relation to Annex II of the consolidated text. [[What's going to be four?]] [[five]] [[eight]] [[Nineteen]] [[Twenty-one]] [[which becomes twenty-four]] [[which becomes forty-six]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 239 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u255	They're approved. Amendment adding a new paragraph to the single article in relation to Article 14 of the consolidated text; and amendment to paragraph 13a of the single article to add a thirteenth additional provision to the consolidated text. [[You're all ……]] [[new]] [[which becomes thirty-nine]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 275 against, 1 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u256	They're approved. Amendment incorporating a new paragraph in the single article, in relation to Article 21.4 of the consolidated text. [[ten]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 189 against, 138 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u257	It's approved. Amendment introducing a new paragraph of the single Article in conjunction with Article 25 of the consolidated text [[Sweet]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 241 abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u258	It's approved. Amendment to the five-sex paragraph of the single Article, in relation to Article 62.1 of the consolidated text. [[new]] [[That's going to be seventeen.]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 270 against, 58 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u259	It's approved. Amendment to paragraph 8 of the single article, in relation to Article 76 of the consolidated text. [[which becomes twenty-three]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 48 against, 188 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u260	It's rejected. Amendment to paragraph 12b of the single Article, adding an additional third third-b provision to the consolidated text. [[new]] [[which becomes thirty-six]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 269 against, 59 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u261	It's approved. Amendment to paragraph 13c of the single article incorporating a new additional provision 14 [[new]] [[What's going to be forty?]] [[which becomes fifteenth]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 188 against, 98 abstentions, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u262	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 190 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u263	They're approved. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 12/2013, OF 2 AUGUST, OF MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE FOOD PROCESSING. [[File number 121/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u264	Bill amending Act No. 12/2013 of 2 August 2013 on measures to improve the functioning of the food chain. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to the explanatory statement, adding a new paragraph after the second paragraph [[Amendment 67]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 147 against, 170 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u265	It's rejected. Amendment to the statement of reasons, amending paragraph 11 [[now twelfth]] [[Amendment 190]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 179 against, 137 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u266	It's approved. Amendment to the statement of reasons, amending the sixteenth paragraph [[now seventeen]] [[Amendment 191]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 179 against, 90 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u267	It's approved. Amendment to the explanatory statement, amending paragraph 24 [[now twenty-fifth]] [[Amendment 189]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 269 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u268	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 4, amending Article 5(j) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 78]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 254 against, 4 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u269	It's approved. Amendment to the Sole Article, paragraph 4, amending Article 5(o) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 192]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 176 against, 2 abstentions, 151.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u270	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 7, amending Article 9.1(d) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 193]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 217 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u271	It's approved. Amendment to the Single Article, paragraph 7, amending Article 9.1(k) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 81]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 289 against, 26 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u272	It's approved. Technical amendment to the single Article, paragraph 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 270; abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u273	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 7a [[Amendment 126]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 177 against, 136 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u274	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 9 [[Amendment 194]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 169 against, 90 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u275	It's approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 10a, and the single Article, paragraph 24 [[Amendments 103 and 104]] [[Amendment 102]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 305 against, 2 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u276	They're approved. Amendment to the sole Article 14a(1)(a) of Law 12/2013, paragraph 14 [[Amendment 195]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 170 abstentions, 159.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u277	It's approved. Rest of amendments to the single Article, paragraph 14 [[Amendments 92 and 93]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 252 against, 4 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u278	They're approved. Technical amendment to the single Article, paragraph 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 261 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u279	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 16, of the addition of article 20.1(n) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 96]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 263 against, 1 abstention, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u280	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 16, of the addition of article 20.3 of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 154]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 178 against, 136 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u281	It's approved. Technical amendment to the single Article, paragraph 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 269 against, 1 abstention, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u282	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 17, in relation to article 22.7 of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 196]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 316 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u283	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 18, in relation to article 23.1(g) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 197]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 308; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u284	It's approved. Amendments to the single article, paragraph 18, in relation to article 23.1m) and (o) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendments 201, 202 and 204]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 217 against, 90 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u285	They're approved. Amendments to the single article, paragraph 18, relating to articles 23.1ñ) and 23.2c) and (f) of Law 12/2013 [[Amendments 203, 198 and 199]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 170 against, 90 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u286	They're approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 18, in relation to article 23.4 of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 200]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 171 against, 136 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u287	It's approved. Rest of the amendments to the single Article, paragraph 18 [[Amendments 205 and 206]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 165 against, 102 abstentions, 62.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u288	They're approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 180 against, 89 abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u289	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 23 in relation to article 28.1 of Law 12/2013 [[transactional amendment to amendment 168]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 177 against, 90 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u290	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 23 in relation to article 28.4 of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 169]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 176 against, 137 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u291	It's approved. Technical amendment to the single article, paragraph 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 270; abstentions, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u292	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 23 in relation to article 29.5 bis of Law 12/2013 [[Amendment 40]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 225 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u293	It's approved. Amendments to the second and eighth additional provisions [[Amendments 208, 31 and 70]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 179 abstentions, 150.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u294	They're approved. Amendment to the third additional provision [[new]] [[Amendment 110]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 264 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u295	It's approved. Amendment to final provision 5 [[Amendment 175]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 177 against, 90 abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u296	It's approved. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 260 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u297	They're approved. - PROPOSAL FOR A LAW TO AMEND THE CIVIL CODE, THE HYPOTECARY LAW AND THE CIVIL INJURY LAW, ON THE LEGAL REGIME OF ANIMALS. [[File number 122/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u298	Proposal for a law amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to article 1, paragraph 1, with regard to the amendment of article 90 of the Civil Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 270 against, 48 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u299	It's approved. Amendment to Article 1(1) as regards the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 2. [[third text of the Congress]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 93 against, 237 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u300	It's rejected. Remaining amendments to Article 1(1). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 283 against, 47 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u301	They're approved. Amendment to Article 1(4). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 270 against, 47 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u302	It's approved. Amendment to Article 1, paragraph 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 270 against, 60 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u303	It's approved. Amendment to the single additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 193 against, 137 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u304	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 283 against, 47 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u305	They're approved. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW TO AMEND ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF JUDICIAL POWER, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF CONSUMER AND TRADITIONAL TRIBUNAL TO THE PRIVATIVE JUDGMENT OF ORIHUAL WATER AND PEOPLES OF HIS MARK AND TO THE COMMUNITY COURT OF THE ROLE OF GRACE OF THE HORTA OF GERMANY AND PEOPLES OF HIS MARK). [[ALICANT/ALACANT]] [[PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, TO RECOGNIZE THE CHARACTER OF CONSUMER AND TRADITIONAL TRIBUNAL TO THE PRIVATIVE JUDGMENT OF ORIHUELLA WATER (ALICANT/ALACANT]] [[File number 124/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u306	Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, to recognize the character of customary and traditional court to the Private Court of Waters of Orihuela, Alicante/Alacant, and peoples of its framework and to the Court of the Municipality of the Rollet de Gràcia de l'Horta d'Aldaia. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 331.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u307	They're approved. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause for the guests' rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote as a whole remains, since it is organic in nature. The whole text was voted on because it was of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 9 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 331 plus 9 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u309	The text was adopted unanimously. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause for the guests' rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u310	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 24/2021 of 2 November on the transposition of European Union directives on guaranteed bonds, cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings, open data and the re-use of public sector information, the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts and to broadcasts of radio and television programmes, temporary exemptions from certain imports and supplies, of consumers and for the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 9 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 250 plus 6 telematics votes, 256; against, 20; abstentions, 61 plus 3 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u311	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 plus 9 telematics votes, 337; 328 plus 9 telematics votes, 337.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u312	It will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2021, OF 8 NOVEMBER, ADAPTING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE REGULATORY LAW ON LOCAL PROCEEDINGS APPROVED BY THE REAL DECRETO LEGISLATIVE 2/2004, OF 5 MARCH, TO THE RECENT JURISDICTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL WITH REGARD TO THE TAX ON THE INCREASING OF VALUE OF THE TERMS OF URBAN NATURALITY. [[File number 30/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u313	Royal Decree-Law 26/2021 of 8 November, adapting the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, to the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court regarding the tax on the increase in the value of urban land. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes, plus 9 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 190 plus 8 telematics votes, 198; against, 136 plus 1 telematics vote, 137; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u314	The royal decree-law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes, plus 9 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 318 plus 7 telematics votes, 325; against, 1 plus 2 telematics votes, 3; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u315	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 25/2021 OF 8 NOVEMBER, OF SOCIAL SECURITY MEASURES AND OTHER SOCIAL SUPPORT TAX MEASURES. [[File number 130/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u316	Royal Decree-Law 25/2021 of 8 November of measures in the field of social security and other fiscal measures of social support. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 9 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 283 plus 8 telematics votes, 291; abstentions, 48 plus 1 telematics vote, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u317	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 9 telematics votes, 338; 149 plus 1 telematics vote, 150; 169 plus 8 telematics votes, 177; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u318	It is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u319	Opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for the reform of Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, with a view to the abolition of the severance of deputies and deputies of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and members of the Government of the Balearic Islands. We are voting first of all on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 322 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u320	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u321	Overall vote on the proposal to amend Organic Law 1/2007 of 28 February 2007 on the reform of the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands, with a view to abolishing the suffocation of Members of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands and Members of the Government of the Balearic Islands for being of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 9 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 322 plus 7 telematics votes, 329; abstentions, 8 plus 2 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u322	The proposal to reform the autonomous status of the Balearic Islands was approved. [[Applauds]] - DRAFT EMERGENCY MEASURES LAW FOR THE REDUCTION OF TEMPORALITY IN PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2021 OF 6 JULY]] [[File number 121/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u323	Draft Law on Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Temporaryity in Public Employment, coming from Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED BY THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 4 against, 266 abstentions, 61.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u324	They're rejected. Vote on Amendment 73, tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 16 against, 256 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u325	It's rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED BY THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 10 against, 264 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u326	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY THE Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 2 against, 251 abstentions, 78.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u327	They're rejected. Baldoví Roda, President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 5 against, 251 abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u328	They're rejected. A full vote on the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 4 against, 256 abstentions, 69.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u329	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. We voted on Amendments 68 and 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 7 against, 245 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u330	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 4 against, 257 abstentions, 70.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u331	They're rejected. Bloc vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 86 against, 186 abstentions, 57.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u332	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 170 against, 5 abstentions, 156.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u333	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u334	Draft law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions and other measures to strengthen the financial and social sustainability of the public pension system. Amendment 9, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 144 against, 177 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u335	It's rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED BY THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 2 against, 192 abstentions, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u336	They're rejected. The amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, were voted on in bulk. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 11 against, 313 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u337	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED BY THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 10 against, 184 abstentions, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u338	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendment 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 22 against, 258 abstentions, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u339	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 7 against, 317 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u340	They're rejected. A full vote on the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 13 against, 175 abstentions, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u341	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. Amendments 65 and 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 4 against, 310 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u342	They're rejected. Amendment 73. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 14 against, 261 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u343	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 5 against, 321 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u344	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 97, 98, 105, 106 and 108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 137 against, 182 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u345	They're rejected. Amendment 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 89 against, 191 abstentions, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u346	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 145 against 183 abstentions 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u347	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 176 against, 148 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-02-CD211202.u348	The opinion was adopted. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. [[Applauds]] It was six and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
