ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u1	Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u2	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, last year we were the economy that fell the most, 10.8%; then you told us that we would achieve economic recovery, and a year later what we are leading is the index of misery, which links unemployment with inflation. Only two developed countries, Turkey and Brazil, surpass us. Why has your government left us in the tailcar of economic recovery? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u4	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Gamarra, every week we hear a vision of reality absolutely catastrophic and every week I try to explain to you that reality is very different from what you describe. The truth is that the recovery is underway and is very strong, that the economic prospects are positive, that our country's economic policy is the one that is needed right now and that Spain leads the deployment of the Recovery Plan. Once again, he urged him to abandon that catastrophic attitude and start contributing to general welfare. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u6	Madam Vice-President, let's go to real Spain. Look, we're already in the sixth wave of the COVID and we're a country that doesn't have, because you don't want to, a law of pandemics. Have you analysed the impact of this governance on such an important sector as, for example, tourism? This negligence of yours has a destructive effect on our future; it's called uncertainty, it's called insecurity, it's called Pedro Sánchez. What do you have to tell us, for example, about the scandal of the EUR 36 billion in the Cohesion Fund that is at risk, as the Director-General for Regional Policy of the European Union did last week? Or we can also, in fact, talk about Next Generation funds, which are not your priority. We have only received 9 billion of the 27,000 that you have budgeted for this financial year. But it is that from the COVID Fund the autonomous communities will have to give back to you 25 billion euros; we already knew that this fund did not like you. Are you prepared to do something to change the conditions and that direct aid will reach the Spaniards? These are some of the reasons, but there are many more why we are in the queue. I invite you, for example, to ask the young Spaniards what they think their country is in charge of unemployment in Europe, or to ask the families, that million households that have all their members unemployed, what they think that minimum living income has only reached one third of the vulnerable population. Why are transporters, farmers, farmers, self-employed, industrial workers on the streets if everything is as well as you say? Ask, for example, families who cannot reach the end of the month what they think they are suffering from a galloping inflation of 5.6%, the highest in the last 30 years, and that you do not even change. Look, Madam Vice-President, either you rule now or you leave, but don't leave real Spain out of the blue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u7	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u8	Mrs Gamarra, the recovery is under way and is very strong thanks precisely to the deployment of the vaccination plan in our country, something that should at least be a source of pride for you, because it is a collective success of the whole of our National Health System and of the Spanish population. Thanks to this situation, we have a strong recovery and the economic prospects are positive. The European Commission itself is talking about an average growth of 5% in three years, and this has to be our goal, that there is not a passing rebound, but a strong and sustained recovery over time. The deployment of the Recovery Plan is essential for this. Spain is leading the deployment of the Recovery Plan, that ambitious investment and reform programme that will enable us to modernize our economy. And why are we in this situation? Because we have made the right decisions since March last year and have managed to protect the productive fabric, employment and incomes of families. You mentioned the employment situation. The data we have shows us that job creation has accelerated in November, after a few very positive months, that unemployment continues to be reduced and that the number of workers covered by the ERTE, who are already below 130 000, continues to be reduced. All this has to give us confidence in our ability to get out of this crisis; in fact, we have recovered in fifteen months the pre-pandemic situation in the workplace and in the fiscal sphere compared to the twelve years that took us in the previous financial crisis. Faced with its catastrophic vision, reality shows us a country of solidarity, a country that trusts in the future, looking to the future with optimism and hope. That's the country I see and it's the country that takes me to work intensely and passionately every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES THE INCREASE OF THE SOCIAL PROTECT AGAINST THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000711]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u9	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, listening to you speak the truth is that I realize that the gulf between the reality of the Spaniards and the one you think is growing. I am not just talking about the great macroeconomic estimates, all of them failed, I am talking about the day-to-day suffering of many workers, many farmers and many people working in businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. Many, like the cleaners in Castellón, are on strike against the criteria of the unions, which no longer represent those workers, of course, because now the unions represent you; I am not surprised, if you have just given them 100 million euros for their union seats. And the protests are growing, Madam Vice President, as in Cadiz, where they have closed in false. How do you rate the increase in social protest against government policy?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u11	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u12	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, if anything characterizes our Government, it is precisely empathy that we think of people before. [[Rumors]] That is what has led us to give a response to this crisis very different from that of the previous financial crisis; that is what has allowed us to protect the productive fabric of our country, directly supporting companies, large and small, and our self-employed; that has allowed us to protect employment, to have a safety net, such as that provided by the ERTE, and to have a good basis for recovery, in addition to protecting the incomes of families, thinking above all about the most vulnerable. Of course, we have been very hard for twenty-one months and, of course, the population has been very distressed, but Spanish citizens know that they can count on a government that has them in its head and in its heart. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u13	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u14	Madam Vice-President, as you remain in the world of the abstract, let us try to bring it to concrete form. We are going to go, for example, to the case of the Cadiz workers, because the situation of the consequences of a government like yours is very revealing. It's not that you don't solve problems, it's that you're the ones who create the problem. You are at the head of the Ministry of Economics while Spain is the most backward country in Europe in economic recovery. You are at the head of the Ministry of Labour when Spain leads the destruction of employment in Europe. You are at the head of the Ministry of Industry, but you have the sacrifice of industry on the altar of climate religion. You are at the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but you have not obtained a single contract from an ally for the shipyards of Navantia; what you have done, by the way, has been to lose a megacontract of four frigates for Cadiz. Of course that is perhaps because you are also at the head of the Ministry of Defence, that ministry that Pedro Sánchez said had to be suppressed, because of its anti-militarist character, and to which you devote half of the budget to which you have committed yourselves to your NATO partners. And while, the mayor of Cadiz, who is also part of a party of his coalition government, encourages mobilizations against himself, ladies and gentlemen, against yourselves!, against the government of which he is part! And then you are at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, which is the one who sends tanks to the streets to repress the same workers that you have placed in this situation. You create the problem and then repress the workers. Madam Minister, you do not have a single answer for the Spanish workers, nor a single concrete answer. The gulf between what you say in this House and what the Spanish are suffering every day in their home is growing. Also for the workers, Minister, there is only VOX left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u15	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u16	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the truth is that from your speech I understand that you are absolutely against everything the Government does, but I do not understand how you stand when we are talking about promoting economic recovery, supporting the workers of our country, deploying a recovery plan or approving general state budgets that will allow us to invest in the future, in science, in innovation and that will also enable us to strengthen our welfare, our social fabric, our pensions and support the most vulnerable. I always find it a speech that opposes everything, but I am not very clear, indeed, what you think we should be doing differently. In the case of industry - to give a very clear example -, precisely the Minister of Industry - of which I am very proud - has had an important action to try to facilitate that agreement in Cadiz, just as the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Defence are absolutely committed to the workload of Navantia. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] That is to say, you are talking about issues in which, in particular, this Government has acted with speed, efficiency and determination to support the productive fabric of our country, to support workers and the maintenance of employment and, above all, to support the incomes and the future of families, which I believe you know you have a Government committed to them, which has also been facing an extraordinary situation with determination and courage for twenty-one months and which will continue to defend the public interests from now on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND MINISTER OF THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE SECOND MINISTER CONSIDER THE SECOND EXCUSE OF EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/000717]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u17	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u18	Mrs Díaz, yesterday the light marked a new historical peak, the families are suffering the biggest increase in the shopping basket in thirty years, petrol and diesel are more expensive than ever, the European Union's aid does not reach anyone and, if anything was missing, the Spanish are now going to suffer a tax blast of EUR 80 billion in their budgets. The Spanish cannot put the heating, but Gabriel Rufián will be able to see The game of squid in Catalan; great success of this government. Mrs Díaz, with the General Budgets of the State, a government defines the type of country it wants to build. You, for example, have dropped the Health game. With taxes, moreover, a Government defines which activities penalize and which do not. You penalize driving, being autonomous, having a society and creating jobs, and now with you - great innovation - the Spaniards will have to pay for work. Tell me honestly: Are you going to charge for having to take the car? Will the president of the government keep his promise that we will pay the same at the end of the year as in 2018 for the price of energy? Do you think that the employment tax is going to be favourable for job creation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u19	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u20	Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. If anyone knows about taxes in this country and tax increases, it's the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Notice, in a year and a half, when Rajoy arrived in Moncloa, taxes rose thirty times and created twelve new tax figures. They came to record the sun; look, if you know of tax hikes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u21	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u22	Mrs Díaz, seeing the answer to all my questions during this session, I invite you to go tomorrow to the presentation of Rajoy's book, to listen to what it means to go back to a country that you left bankrupt and what it means to go back to an economy that you destroyed, as you are doing now. [[laughs]] [[applause]] Having said that, what would you do without Rajoy in all the control sessions? He'd have nowhere to hide. But do you know what's going on? That as you raise taxes, our autonomous communities lower you, and you are an example that things can be done differently. In which country do we live?, asked Mrs. Calviño. You wonder which country we live in; you lack to say that the rise of gasoline is not noticed because you always make 20 euros. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Gentlemen of the Government, today we have learned that taxes on the middle and working classes are the ones that are supporting the most expensive and inefficient government in history. You can't be with the young people and indebt their future. You can't take care of the middle classes and make the shopping basket the Christmas basket. Therefore, Minister, if you really want to collect taxes, if you really want to fix public accounts, put a tax on incompetence, which with this government is being provided. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u23	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u24	Mr. García Aegean, you're talking about contributors. Tomorrow, the data on unemployment and social security affiliations will be published and the figure will be checked as historical in Social Security affiliates and, therefore, in Social Security contributors. [[Applauds]] But, look, Mr García Eggea, you are talking about a very important issue for our country: pensions. This government has ended the reform that attacked pensioners in our country, that of the People's Party. Look, we've done two things. One: to guarantee pensioners that their pensions will be revalued in accordance with the actual CPI. I ask you a question in this House: What would happen, Mr García Aegean, if we applied your law today and revalued only 0.25 % of pensions to pensioners in our country? [[Applauds]] What would happen, Mr. García Aegean? And two: the so-called sustainability factor - I repeat, so-called - we have also eliminated it, and I will do the accounts for that sustainability factor. Let's imagine an eighteen-year-old from Spain, who wins the minimum wage when he retires, which is very possible. With your law, Mr. García Aegean, you would lose at a rate of 194 euros a month during your entire retirement. What this government does precisely is, for 6 euros and 1 that the worker pays for ten years, guarantee sufficient public pensions in Spain. Look, Mr García Egea, I give you a figure of the poor management of the People's Party: the Reserve Fund, the pension fund. When Mariano Rajoy arrived he had 66,851 million euros; when they left the Moncloa he did not reach 5000. [[Rumors]] They're a management disaster and they're a danger to... [[Rumors.- Mrs. Riolobos Regadera Pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u26	... the public pensions of our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u27	Quiet, please. Mrs Riolobos Regadera, you are heard more than the person who has the floor. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES SHE FEEL CONCERNED AS THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY BY THE CRISIS THAT AFFECTS INDUSTRIAL WORKERS? [[File number 180/000712]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u28	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u29	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Minister, you don't know how hard I get to be the one to tell you this, and I tell you honestly, but someone has to tell you because it's being eaten by the character who created himself. Minister, you're not a world leader. [[Laughter]] I'm deeply sorry to have to be the one to tell you. [[Laughter]] What you do represent is a real punishment for the Spanish working class, for its direct workers - the workers of the Public State Employment Service, who depend directly on you - and for the rest of the Spanish working class. The CSIF civil servants union has just demanded your immediate resignation from the absolute disaster you have in SEPE's offices, the former INEM, the offices that manage unemployment benefits for workers in Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u31	Do you want data, Minister? With you there are currently ten SEPE offices closed, with no cash; thirty-seven with only one cash; ninety-one offices with only two staff; and one hundred and fifteen offices with three staff. The reality is that with you the only thing that the unemployed in Spain find are offices that they are forbidden to access if it is not by prior appointment, telephones communicating and an absolutely collapsed website. More than 6,000 staff have been lost in recent years to SEPE offices and, with you, the 1,000 five hundred interim staff members who had been hired to manage the additional benefits due to COVID have just been dismissed. As for the Spanish working class, minister, the union bureaucracies of the Workers' Commissions and UGT of the metal of Cadiz put an end to the strike and, with this, nine days of mobilizations, because in the middle of the strike of Cadiz the agreement of the metal of Seville was signed, accepting conditions far removed from those that at the same time demanded in the streets the metalworkers of Cadiz, leaving them absolutely abandoned. You have managed to make the majority unions of Workers' Commissions and UGT become their personal political platforms and, as the workers of Navantia themselves moved me to Cadiz this summer, all they want is a workload and not sectarian policies such as the one you defend, bribed the unions to avoid the mobilizations in the streets, which do nothing but transfer an absolute destruction of employment. The Workers want a homeland, a communist minister, and I anticipate they're about to lose the streets. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u32	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u33	Your Honor, thank you for your question. Look, I listen to you carefully, and you believe that you offend me or that you offend the Government of Spain, but I think that you are simply portrayed with the considerations you make in this House. However, I will answer your question. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I'm going to tell you that if anyone saved our country, in addition to the social partners to which you have little respect, it was SEPE's public workers. If anyone has shown that we have been able to move forward with SEPE cut into more than 3,000 people by the People's Party, in which there were many of the members of VOX, it has been the workers of SEPE. [[rumors]] Look, Your Honor, you have a problem with the Spanish Constitution, you have a problem with the Spanish Constitution. Social actors are part of the constitutional mandate and should be part of the social dialogue, as the Spanish Government does. By the way, the social partners - in article 28.2 - have deployed in Cadiz, both employers and trade unions, the best of the constitutional text and have given us a collective lesson. The social partners have told us and the workers and their families in Cadiz have told us that it is clear that organizing, fighting, mobilizing, dialogue and negotiating is worth it. [[Applauds]] Today, on behalf of the Government of Spain, I thank the social partners and the working families of Cadiz, because, despite their speeches, union, defending democracy and having employers makes this country more solid. And since you're talking to me about the industry, I'm going to talk to you about the industry. Your Honor, the management is obvious. In the previous financial crisis more than 600,000 industrial jobs were destroyed; today - data collection - Spain has 25000 more industrial workers than before the crisis. This is simply because management has been different. And indeed, we have a problem with the industry in Spain. For many years different governments have not taken care of the industry in Spain. But not only that, when you were in the People's Party you were defending an industrial policy based on speculation and not on the real economy and, for example, you have done something that is very serious for Spain: you have collectively sold more than forty public enterprises. Therefore, Your Honor, I share the concern for industry, but I believe that you must defend the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN THROUGH THE MASSIVE PROTESTS OF FORCES AND SECURITY CORPORATIONS AGAINST THE AMENDMENT OF CITIZEN SECURITY LAW? [[File number 180/000718]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u34	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u35	Do you intend to rectify the government following massive protests against the amendment of the Citizens' Security Act? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u36	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. I'll remind you of one thing you've forgotten: You didn't lose an election, you lost five. [[Rumors]] And this government and the two parties that support this government in their respective programs led to the repeal of a rule that was considered unworthy and that you dictated with the roll of the absolute majority without any other party in this Parliament. They did not dictate it for the purpose of defending or improving the fundamental rights of citizens; nor did they do so for the purpose of improving the working conditions and safety of agents. I remind you - as always - that with you twelve thousand jobs were lost from the State Security Forces and Bodies, and of course you did not do so in order to protect all citizens and their security, but to protect yourselves, to protect yourself from the protests against you for the corruption that drowned you. We are going to repeal the law for two purposes: to guarantee the rights of citizens, which you limited, and to give legal certainty to the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u38	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u39	Minister, it turns out that the very ones who support the law are the political heirs of those who murdered 506 police and civilian guards; they are those convicted of assaulting police and instigating violence against them; they are the anti-systems who want to destroy and burn the streets. You, Mr Marlaska, do not want a law of citizen security, you want a law of impunity for criminals; you want to put criminals on the same level as the rest of Spanish society. Mr Marlaska, security is freedom and without security there is no freedom. You want a law that makes us less free; you want a law to defend only those who think like you; you want a law that can attack the police and attack society. If three years ago this was the thin line that defended security, will you tell me now that you're going to be able to play ping-pong, Mr. Marlaska? [[shows a photograph]] Is this the defensive line you're going to leave them? If they break you a window, if they burn you a car, if they break your business, are we gonna defend ourselves with this? And it turns out that if you don't have money now, you won't pay the fines, and if you want to defend yourself and manifest yourself freely, you won't be able to do it either. The current law was endorsed by the Constitutional Court, Mr Marlaska, and the European Court of Human Rights, but so are you, Mr Marlasca! March 27, 2014, when I was at the General Council of the Judiciary! [[shows a document]] [[Applauds]] You too are part of that roll: unanimity. Do you want me to read you how you defended her that day? What changed when you hung the toga, Mr. Marlaska? Look, you guys are incoherent until you make a fool of yourself. They defend the right to protest and then criticize those who protested this weekend and attack them, the same ones who gave you the bracelet that looked like the match, the same ones that - the spokesman of the PSOE and Podemos - fought for holding the banner. [[shows a photograph]] [[Show another photograph]] Moreover, they are not the same; this weekend you achieved the unanimity of all the Spanish police forces against you and against the repeal of the law: they are more. [[Applauds]] Look, we can hardly be cared for by a minister who doesn't protect the one who gives his life for us and puts criminals on the street. Go away, Mr. Marlasca! [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well, very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u40	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. His Twitter statements are typical; he comes here with his scarecrows, his hyperventilations, as I always say, but also with his falsehoods. [[rumors]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u42	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u43	Well, I see you like to protest. It is okay to protest, but I will tell you two things: firstly, this society is a safe society and not the insecure society that you and your friends proclaim of VOX; secondly, you do not protect the State Security Forces and Bodies, the State Security Forces and Bodies are protected by giving them more effective, giving them more means and raising salaries. [[Applauds]] You do not protect society as a whole, do not defend that freedom to manifest and exercise rights, which is absolutely compatible with giving legal certainty to the State Security Forces and Bodies. The democratic society, a truly advanced society, is far from you. I'm just telling you to get ready to continue living in democracy for a long time and with a government like this. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY ARE YOU GOING TO DISPROTECT THE MEMBERS OF THE FORCES AND SECURITY BODIES OF THE STATE IN THE EXERCISE OF THEIR POLITICAL FUNCTIONS? [[File number 180/000713]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u44	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why are you going to unprotect the State Security Forces and Bodies in the exercise of their police functions?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u46	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. As I said, we do not give them protection, good proof of this is that we have created 10,000 net National Police and Civil Guard places in just three years, we have invested 600 million euros in the modernization of barracks and police stations, we have stopped using the Ministry of the Interior in a partisan way - as has been done so far. Obviously, not only do we not unprotect the State Security Forces and Bodies, but we help them to do their job even better. In fact, you sure know that since November we have the lowest crime rate in recent years, that's why you said we're a safe country. And you know why you get those results? We will now also address the reform of the law to continue to protect the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, a law that has been challenged by the Constitutional Court by declaring a part of the same unconstitutional and others, of necessary interpretation in some specific terms; a law of which the then leader of one of its partners - of today's members - as Citizens, said that it was only, as it were, a crackdown on the party in the Government with an absolute majority and that, of course, had no purpose. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u48	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, don't go down the hills of Ubeda. This reform, its reform, is a miserable reform that puts agents at risk and will undermine the effectiveness of police work. It is also a humiliating reform because you launder it to the whole extreme left of this House, those who say they feel emotion when they see a policeman kicking on the floor, or those ministers who happily say that the police are of the extreme right, or those who send their gorillas to punish citizens who attend the VOX acts, or those who for years have made the crime their profession and who are today the preferred partners of this government, or those communist ministers with portfolio in the council who dare systematically to throw out any form of street terrorism; in short, to a violent mob that exists and is there and who continues to pretend to be able to burn a policeman alive some day. That is why this reform, Minister, is an insult to the State Security Forces and Bodies and a betrayal of the general interest. [[Rumors]] Look, it gives the feeling that this foolish reform in the end conceals a clear political intention, that of making things easier for you when you lose power to try to burn the streets, which is what the Left has always done systematically. Well, look, if you do, you lose all hope. When VOX rules, which will be very soon, there will be law and order. [[Rumors]] Streets, neighborhoods, towns, cities and safe borders.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u51	And from the Government there will be permanent support for the exemplary task of the State Security Forces and Bodies so that no one violently can seek to alter the peace and freedom of others and, if he does, the full weight of the law will fall on him. So, ladies and gentlemen, make it very clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u53	Go take a very good note already. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u54	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Very briefly, I don't think it's worth much more time. [[Rumors]] You manifest once again your ignorance, your falsehood, your bad faith. [[Applauds]] He talks about the reform of the law on the gag, the law on the security of citizens and tells us nothing that, in your opinion, puts at risk the rights and freedoms of citizens or the legal security of the security forces and bodies. Nothing. It only generates that climate of hatred, that climate of chasm, that climate of tending towards, simply, the confrontation between political forces here, in the house of all citizens where the law is spoken and has to be reformed. You're very patriotic, you're instrumentalizing the institutions, the Forces and the State Security Corps. They're all flags. Do you know how we are patriots? With 10,000 more posts of State Security Forces and Corps agents, rising salaries, 600 million in infrastructure, working for them and for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA CARVALHO DANTAS, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT NOT GUARANTEING THE RIGHT TO DOCUMENTATION OF RESOURCE-PURSUANT PERSONS? [[File number 180/00710]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u56	Question by María Carvalho Dantas, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister Marlaska. Why does the Government not guarantee the right to documentation for asylum-seekers pending appeal?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u58	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho Dantas. The Government effectively and legally guarantees and guarantees the rights of persons seeking international protection. Article 18 of Law 12/2019, which regulates the right of asylum, guarantees that the applicant for international protection is, from the beginning, documented. In this regard, the Secretariat of State for Security, which, as you know, is responsible, together with the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior, for the matter of international protection, has prepared the corresponding joint instruction to give effect to these rights by incorporating, as an annex, the documents which guarantee, in any case and from the very beginning, that right to documentation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u60	Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u61	Thank you, President. On 27 September this parliamentary group defended a PNL that was rejected by the PSOE and also by the extreme right of this house, but we did not give up, because it affects hundreds of thousands of people seeking refuge in this country. Spain is the only country, together with Hungary - also the extreme right of Orbán - that does not recognize or guarantee judicial rights to asylum seekers who have been working here and who have only three options left right now. First option, ask for help; second option, submerged economy, and third option, go hungry on the street. The Community directive and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, also the National Court here in Spain for many years, recognize this right. There are even sentences. There are many judgments pending and judgments already handed down by the National High Court, but Spain, again, is aggravatingly disobeying, Minister. We know the laws, we know the directive, we know the European laws, we know the sentence, but what happens is that there are a lot of people who are staying on the street, who are entering the Aliens Act. These are people who come here, to this country, seeking refuge. In addition to sending to social exclusion, you are causing very serious harm to these people and to these people's families as well. And, if it serves the utilitarian paradigm, so does the economy of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u62	Thank you. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho Dantas. I would like to reiterate what I have already said to you, the right to documentation of all applicants for international protection from the outset, how the instructions of the Secretariat of State and the undersecretary have been issued to expedite the process, and how in these three years - you know it perfectly well - we have been concerned with staffing the Asylum and Refugee Office. We have quadrupled its officials and have also equipped ourselves with new technological infrastructures to be much more agile. Today we are the second country in the European Union to apply for international protection, but last year we solved more international protection files than those that entered us. I'll tell you again that we're increasing personal media. We do not deny that at some point there have been delays, delays, but they are being corrected. We are giving the necessary protection and assistance to all applicants and always with the aim of improving the public service and giving the necessary guarantees to those people who are, of course, in complicated, difficult situations and who deserve, in any case, our public services, that our Administration is at their service to guarantee their rights. Trust me, because I am convinced that you yourself are aware of the positive developments that have taken place in recent times in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO TO TAKE THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TO AVOID THE DEATHS OF MIGRANT PERSONS IN THE BIDASOA AREA AFTER THE CLOSURE OF FRONTERIZED STEPS AND THE INSTALLATION OF PERMANENT POLICIAL CONTROLS BY FRANCE? [[File number 180/00709]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u64	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u65	Thank you very much, President. Egun on, Minister. During these days we are seeing tragedies on the external borders of the European Union, either in Belarus on the border with Poland, or on the Channel, or also on the southern border. They are people who are trying to reach Europe or even the United Kingdom, but because it is impossible to get there by legal and secure means, they are at risk and lose their lives along the way. This is not only at the external borders, it is also at the internal borders of the Union, particularly in the Basque border area, in the Bidasoa, where seven people have died in recent weeks, three of them drowned in the Bidasoa. I therefore ask what the Ministry of the Interior is going to do to prevent these deaths of migrants following the closure of several border crossings by the French authorities and the permanent installation of police controls at the same points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u66	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, Iñarritu jauna. [[Protests]] Is there a problem with using...? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u69	In this regard, I should like to inform you that, since last August, in the face of situations such as those in the Bidasoa area, the Civil Guard, within its competence, has established a special monitoring mechanism involving the deployment of the Provincial Maritime Service, patrols reinforced with the reserve core of the command, the rapid action group and sporadic reconnaissances also by the air unit. The information and judicial police units have also intensified contacts with the French security forces to combat those networks and criminal groups that are engaged in the trafficking of immigrants and that put their lives at risk in the terms you have just indicated. These measures are based on the practice of closing border crossings. As you have said, it is not a novel act, since it is already being carried out since 2015 by the French Government, and it is reflected, as I have already told you on some occasion, in Articles 25 to 27 of the Schengen Code, which we do not necessarily share, because the Government of Spain and many other Mediterranean governments believe that one of the fundamental pillars of the European Union is free movement and that we have the necessary and precise measures to protect the external borders of the European Union and to ensure free internal movement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u70	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u71	Thank you very much. Minister, I found it interesting that part which said that you also do not share that border closure which is causing, on the one hand, discomfort to neighbours and border workers in their day-to-day lives, but, on the other hand, it is forcing migrant people to risk more and more so that they can move to France and thus lead to tragedies; tragedies that are avoidable. I am concerned that everything points to police measures, because, as you know we have spoken on several occasions - the migratory phenomenon is polyhedral, it has different areas and responsibilities, but it is fundamentally humanitarian. The police measures they are taking are not helping to prevent this drama. If you approach the border area you will see the cooperation of the various French and Spanish police officers in returning migrants on the basis of the Malaga agreement, but you will also be able to observe hot returns on the northern border, ethnic police checks, by the French police, but also by the Spanish police, and it is intolerable. Minister, you asked what measures you are going to take, beyond what you have taken, to prevent this tragedy. They can't stay in action, we have to take steps to keep it from happening again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u72	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. We agree - and you mentioned it again today - that immigration is a phenomenon of a polyhedral nature. And, in that regard, we are working repeatedly and with plural measures. We are acting to prevent, first of all, the loss of life, as I have told you, and at this end you have already been informed of the special device of the Civil Guard in the area of the Bidasoa River and the cooperation and collaboration with the security forces of our neighbour, of France. I repeat that this situation and the measures taken by the French Government to close border crossings are covered by the Schengen Code, regardless of whether we do not share them, in the terms added, and which has allowed us to move today out of sixteen closed posts to improve the transit to ten closed posts. And we're still working with France... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE HOUSE OF CLAVELL'S HOUSE LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO TO COMPLETE CATALUNE'S GENERALITY LAW? [[File number 180/000719]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u75	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mr Óscar Clavell López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u76	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. What does the Government of Spain intend to do to ensure that the Generalitat of Catalonia complies with the law? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u77	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Mr Clavell, this government defends the separation of powers and we focus our political action on respect for the laws, on improving coexistence in Catalonia, while justice does its work. And, by the way, without merit to you, I am surprised that Mr Casado has not entrusted this question to the head of the list of Barcelona, it must be that between book and book they have also forgotten your phone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u79	Mr. Clavell.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u80	Thank you, Minister, but you have had a lapse: I am the Education Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Alegría, are you aware of the damage you have caused to Spanish education? The harmful Education Act passed by his Government this same year is already beginning to bear fruit. They are not content to lower the educational level of our children and young people, but they claim that there are first- and second-class citizens, depending on where they live and where they study. Madam Minister, the amendment that your party, the Socialist Party, approved in the Celaá law, which eliminates Spanish as a vehicle language and official of the State, has been discovered by the courts. Its partners, who allow it to remain there, in the blue seats, are the ones who govern in Catalonia, and they have announced that they will not comply with the judicial sentence; that is, in the most cowardly way: parapeting behind the directors and teachers of the educational centers, launching them directly to the lions, because the Catalan political offices are already resigning in order not to assume such responsibility and their party in Catalonia has voted against the execution of the sentence. And if you really came to that end, what will the Government of Spain do? What are you going to do, Minister? According to the decision of the Spanish Government, this situation can be repeated in so many other communities governed by the Socialist Party and with clear guises to the independenceists such as Navarra, Baleares or the Valencian Community. He has become, and I think consciously, a worthy successor to Isabel Celaá; they will have changed their faces, but not their attitude. You're going to be responsible for the biggest hit that the Castilian wants to do, you're going to consent to stigmatize many children simply by communicating in the language of Cervantes, you're going to allow them to spy through a language police in which language the children speak in the courtyard and with their lost look on the horizon you'll let the Castilian get banished in Spain. [[rumors]] The People's Party - it noted, only the People's Party - has gone to court whenever it has considered it. This is not just about education, but also justice, Minister, and respect for the law. Mrs. Alegría, are you on the train of constitutionalists like us or are you following that of the insurgents who rule in Catalonia? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u81	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u82	Thank you very much, President. Mr Clavell, there is one issue on which I agree with you: we all have to comply with sentences and comply with the law. I say this because I have recently heard many who said that they were not going to enforce the law, that they were going to use autonomous powers to ensure that state laws did not have recognition in their territories, that they were going to seek subterfuges for legality and come up with an offensive against the Government of Spain. Does all this ring a bell? Because I'm not talking to you about Catalonia, I'm talking to you about the Education Act, I'm talking about the housing law, laws that the leaders of the People's Party have called on the boycott to do its own absolute anti-system style. [[applause]] Of course, you constantly call for law enforcement and compliance with sentences, that's right, you do when you're in the government, because when you're in the opposition you feel so much more comfortable calling the boycott and calling the conscientious objection. You are people of law, you are people of order, but when those laws or that order bothers you, everything is fine. I, Mr Clavell, ask you: Do you really not tire of making this use of such toxic politics? Don't the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party get tired of doing this kind of policy? They must understand once and for all that the laws, that the languages, are such important tools that they allow us to communicate to all citizens and that in Catalonia there is obviously a feeling of our own for this Catalan, which at no time is made against the Castilian. [[Rumors]] You have preferred and decided for a long time not to put forward a political project for the majority of Catalonia and prefer to go against that community and against Catalan. I will tell you something, ladies and gentlemen, who does not have a political project for Catalonia, nor does he have a political project for Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO GUARANTEE THE RIGHTS OF THE CATALIAN FAMILIES TO WHICH THEIR CHILDREN ARE RECEIVED A THOSE EDUCATION IN CHALLENGE BETWEEN THE NEGATIVE OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNIA TO COMPLETE WITH THE JUDICIAL SENTENCES? [[File number 180/000715]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u83	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u84	Madam Minister, the Generalitat of Catalonia has already said that it is going to fail to comply with the judgment which obliges them to stop excluding Spanish in the classroom. He asked, what steps will your Government take to ensure that the rights of Catalan children are respected?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u85	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u86	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Arrimadas, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier to the Member of the People's Party. Our Government respects and abides by the judgments of the courts, there is no debate on this issue, but it will also allow me not to anticipate the decisions to be taken by the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is responsible for the execution of the judgment, inter alia, because I trust that it will act in a responsible manner. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u87	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u88	Spain is the only country in the world where families cannot school our children not only in our mother tongue, but also in the official language of the State and in the majority language of Catalonia. Today I want to remember brave people like Severo Bueno, entities like Assembly for a Bilingual School or Citizen Impulse and so many brave people who have had to devote their time, effort and money to go to court and earn in them what you have denied them in the classroom, and always at the expense of pointing to their families. This has been allowed by the PSOE and also by the People's Party - not to come again now - for decades in exchange for a few votes in Congress. In Citizens we have been denouncing it since 2006 to defend ourselves not only from separatism, but from the helplessness that their Governments have always given us. You cannot look elsewhere - you, the Minister of Education - you cannot look elsewhere in the attacks on constitutionalists in the university, the linguistic fines for labelling exclusively in Spanish or for the so-called "linguistic immersion", which, Madam Minister, harms Spanish speaking children in schools. Then you have a lot of hypocrisy, because in Catalonia you vehemently defend the system of immersion, but although many of you, of the political leaders of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, take your children to expensive schools with three or four vehicle languages. You are not progressive, you are elitist, like Colau, who wants only the rich to be able to take their children to schools to study in their mother tongue. You continue to defend this, but the worst thing is that your partners have already said you are not going to comply, your partners are hiding from justice, from the families and from Spain and you are getting your head down. I ask you: what are you going to do? Don't tell me this is a matter of justice, because then what do you charge a minister's salary for? If you cannot guarantee the rights of Catalan children in classrooms, why do you have a ministry? To let Catalonia be the linguistic Far West? We have already lost too much time and opportunity and suffered too much humiliation. You have an obligation to stop this. So forget your debt to Republican Esquerra and think about your historical debt to Catalan families. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u89	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, I tell you with all due respect, I thought you knew something better about the reality of Catalonia, but after your intervention I see no. [[Applauds]] You are well aware that there is a law on Catalan education which was passed by a majority in Parliament and which was also ratified by the Constitutional Court. It is also well aware that last year in this House an absolute majority passed an education law which sets such a legitimate and timely goal as ensuring that children, at the end of basic education, have acquired the competence of Spanish and also of the co-official language. You also know perfectly well that all the educational reports tell us that Catalan students finish the training having acquired the competence of both Catalan and Castilian. The reality is, therefore, that there is a model that works, that reasonably works well, that actually, like any other model, it is possible to improve it. But what is not worth it is always turning the tongue into a bold weapon, because I was listening to it, Mrs. Arrimadas, and it gives me the feeling that you always need to recover a protagonist that you have lost a long time ago. I'll remind you of something, Mrs. Arrimadas. You won some elections in Catalonia and had the opportunity to rule, you also had the opportunity to change these laws that you don't like, even if they are backed and endorsed by the majority of Catalan society, but what did you prefer? He preferred to abdicate his responsibilities, hide and leave the stampede. [[Applauds]] And from then until now, Mrs. Arrimadas, loss, defeat after defeat until the final defeat. So don't worry, Mrs Arrimadas, that this government will continue to work for the interests of citizens, of all citizens, also of Catalans, and we will continue to ensure the enforcement of court sentences. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, THE MIXED PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW WILL YOU APPLY THE GOVERNMENT THE JUDGMENT OF THE SUPREME TRIBUNAL TO ENJOY 25 % OF CLASSES IN CASTELLANO AND CONTRACTING THE CELLAAA LAW ON LANGUAGES? [[File number 180/00708]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u91	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. We continue to ask about the same subject, the Supreme Court's ruling in relation to the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, but from a perspective of defending linguistic diversity, unlike Citizens and the People's Party, who do so with allergy to difference. I remember that the People's Party and Citizens are in the process of disappearing in the Parliament of Catalonia. What will the Government, Minister, do between the Supreme Court ruling and the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, the Celaá Law or the Catalan Education Law itself?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u93	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to say it for the third time. We as a Government, as it cannot be otherwise, respect and abide by court judgments, especially when they are firm, as we are talking about, judgements that must of course be applied further under the very criteria determined by the court. It is in this case that the Generalitat de Catalunya should be responsible for implementing the judgment handed down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u95	Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u96	Thank you, President. Minister, you speak of the judgment as if it were neutral, as if it were alien to a very clear Catalanophobia dynamic of the Supreme Court. The ruling of the Supreme Court against the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia or against the Office of Linguistic Rights of the Valencià Country is a war on the Catalan language. For us it is, on the one hand, a pulse between legality and legitimacy, an ultra-conservative legality obsessed with the difference and with ending the catalan and, on the other hand, a legitimacy founded by the collective heritage of a people, by an educational model of success and by a language spoken by millions of people, minister. And you know what's the worst of it all? That while you explain the judgment as if it were a neutral thing, the Supreme Court has very clear objectives: if you attack the language it is because it is the basis of the peoples. Look, Mexican poet Celerina Patricia Sánchez speaks of indigenous languages as the words that build worlds; and Unamuno himself explained the language as the basis of continuity in the space and time of peoples. Minister, in 2013 the teachers of the islands already started a war against the Bauzá government for trilingualism, which they won, and in Catalonia there is already a mobilization called for 18 December. Either you stand alongside the peoples, the languages and the laws adopted in the parliaments democratically, or you stand alongside an ultra-conservative campaign, and people, if necessary, will pass over you; it will not be the first time in Catalonia that the language is defended against a government in Madrid and against the Spanish courts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u97	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vehí, I would also ask you in your speeches - and specifically the one you have just had - not to try to confuse: the sentence does not go against Catalan, in the same way that defending Catalan is not going against Spanish, nor defending Spanish means going against Catalan. [[Applauds]] In fact, as you know, Catalan is perfectly collected and protected in the Constitution, by the way, a Constitution that you do not like. You are well aware that the language immersion programme that is included in the Catalan Education Act has been in operation for more than four decades; a good functioning, a proper functioning and that, moreover, as I have explained to the Member of the Citizens' Group earlier, it has functioned correctly in Catalonia and has allowed students to acquire the competence of both Spanish and the second language, the co-official, when they finished their education phase. In fact, it is the model we have always bet on, which is why it is perfectly endorsed in the thirty-eighth additional provision of the Lomlou. By the way, you in the question refer to that law, and I would already have liked it to have been supported positively, as other groups in this House did. I believe that one of the riches that the education system in Catalonia had in this case until today was that consensus in the linguistic model, in the coexistence of Catalan and Spanish; a model, moreover, defended and proposed for a long time by a great woman, a socialist woman, which I am sure, Mrs Vehí, that you will recognize and remember, as was Marta Mata. [[Applauds]] So, Your Honor, I believe that we all have a responsibility here, you too, and that responsibility calls on you to stop using the language, in this case the Catalan language, as a weapon that is constantly bulging in politics. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MAJOR MARKS ORTEGA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO SOLUTION THE PROBLEMS CAUSED TO THE SPANISH PRIMARY SECTOR? [[File number 180/000720]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u99	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs Milagros Marcos Ortega, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u100	Mr Planas, the countryside is suffocated, farmers and farmers are suffocated, they have more environmental demands and EUR 5 billion less in a CAP that you are imposing: more taxes on sugar, plastics, waste, and more production costs; electricity alone has risen by 270 %, diesel by 73%, fertilizers by 300%, feed, fertilizers, everything by the clouds. Yes, Mr. Planas. Look, this isn't a game, it's the main sector of the economy, it's the one that gives us food, which we all applaud during the pandemic, and you're suffocating it, so you've pulled the tractors back into the street. Mr. Planas, are you going to do something once and for all to fix it? Yes or no? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u101	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, tomorrow this House will probably vote on the most important law of this legislature for the agri-food sector, the second substantive amendment to the Food Chain Act, which was the first request by all professional agricultural organizations, and which this government has introduced. [[applause]] In this thesis, which also prohibits, among other things, the sale at loss, will the People's Party support the reform that is being voted on in this House tomorrow and which calls for farmers and livestock farmers to defend their interests? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u103	Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u104	Minister, this is not the responsibility of the People's Party. I said the same thing to you a year and a half ago and look at how you are, you are the only ones who have to compete with countries that produce cheaper at the moment, while you are looking elsewhere, and you are the only ones who have to compete with European countries in which you do follow the policies of the People's Party: you have less taxes and more aid from the government, from a government that listens to you, not like you. Mr Planas, how can you look at the face of a farmer who has been working since six in the morning for three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, telling him that with these production costs, life is sought in the markets. No, Mr. Planas, no, listen, it's your obligation. What this government must do, what a responsible government must do is not say that life is sought and that someone pays that price barbarity; what it must do is what the People's Party is proposing, what other countries are doing: increase aid, lower costs, VAT and taxes, and reduce energy prices. Mr Casado has given them the recipe, the People's Party knows how to help farmers and farmers in this country. Do that, help farmers and farmers, and stand by your side, you are the most responsible. Do it or leave, the country will thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u105	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see that you are not going to support the first claim of farmers and farmers in Spain. But we have also obtained EUR 47 724 million for the next CAP, a second request made to us by farmers and farmers, to maintain the same level of aid, which you deny and continue to deny in this House. By the way, you in the European Parliament have also not supported the fundamental regulation of CAP reform, the Socialist Group has supported it, the PP has supported it, the Liberals have supported it and you have not supported it, and you join the Hungarian and Polish right; that is where you really are at ease. We sincerely, apart from all that, yesterday in the Council of Ministers, are carrying out the Agricultural Insurance Plan, with EUR 256.7 million for the sector, EUR 40 million for the integration and competitiveness of cooperatives, and EUR 9.5 million for support for the renovation of agricultural machinery. All these are commitments that this Government has with the sector, and we will continue to dialogue and work with the problems that exist, which are real, but not for demagogy, but to try to solve them, of course. Increasing the price of fertilizers, increasing the price of feed are not national or European issues, they are international issues to which we have to respond through dialogue and work. And this, which is a committed government, will do so. And on that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u107	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ELVIRA VELASCO MORILLO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PREVIOUS DO SOMETHING USEFUL FOR A TIME IN WHICH THERE IS A Homogenous AND UNIFORM RESPONSE TO THE SIXTH WIDE OF COVID-19 IN ALL THE NATIONAL TERRITORY? [[File number 180/000721]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u108	Questions to the Minister of Health. Question by Mrs Elvira Velasco Morillo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u109	Thank you, President. Minister, it has been almost two years since the start of the pandemic and we have not defeated the virus, and the Spanish are alarmed not only by the many infections that are occurring, but also by the fact that these infections are occurring in the vaccinated people. And we continue without any vaccine immunity studies in the elderly or in the persistent COVID, those studies that you announced in this House. Minister, are you really going to do something useful sometime, being like the highest health authority in a pandemic? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u110	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u111	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work within the inter-territorial council to continue to lead the response to COVID, as we are doing at international and European level from prevention, vaccination and anticipation, as we are doing with the new Omicron variant. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u112	Mrs. Velasco.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u113	Madam Minister, the work is not very clear to you. Within a few weeks, cases diagnosed with an accumulated incidence of 208 have increased, and there are autonomous communities with an accumulated incidence above or'about 500, such as the Basque Country or Navarre. People continue to die from the Coronavirus, 44 people yesterday, and according to the Ministry of Health there are already 88 052. Unfortunately, however, there are many more, above 120 000, and the records are still not updated. Health care providers continue to be infected, the level of infection has doubled in two weeks, and they now total more than 153,000 without recognizing them as a profession of risk in COVID. On 31 August - the last time he came to the Commission - we asked him to vaccinate and put the dose of memory on the toilets, and only a few days ago they made the decision. Madam Minister, the Spanish have the right to have the same treatment and this is not the case, and I do not know if you have noticed. We face seventeen different ways of fighting a single virus, without an agency of quality care and public health that coordinates public health data with the clinic, as clinicians ask; without a legal framework that avoids governance. We need a pandemic law so that it is not the courts of each autonomous community that tell us every day what we have to do. We can talk about the COVID passport, in some places it is used for night entertainment, hospitality, in short, a disconcert. We face a sixth wave with a new variant and you instead of pushing a pandemic law what you do is ask for the international health regulations to be strengthened. Is this a joke? Order your house first, as you're asked to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we entered the pandemic - as I say - without navigation letters, but it is true that as we progressed in the pandemic we have been discovering many things about the virus, and others that we already knew, that were already among us, but that the virus has increased them. And it's that when Spain goes well to the PP it goes badly, that when Spain goes ahead to the PP it bothers it, that when Spain progresses the PP gets angry. You've been all over the pandemic putting sticks on the wheel and yet we've moved on. [[Applauds]] We have advanced and Spain, despite you - because you have only made sticks on the wheel - has been internationally recognized by the WHO in the management of the pandemic. But it is also that President Von der Leyen puts us as an example of vaccination. And you know what happens to them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? That makes them urticaria; it makes them urticaria that Spain is recognized internationally, and now we are in a situation of increase of all levels, especially on the European continent, where Spain - with all prudence - maintains a remarkable difference, and not only in relation to previous situations, you compare December 1, 2021 with December 1, 2020 and you will see the difference. Spain at the moment, with all the prudence, also makes a difference to its European environment, and this has to do with two reasons that we consider to be fundamental. On the one hand, the very high vaccination coverage. Does the People's Party feel bad about the excellent level of vaccination we have achieved in Spain? Well, we've done it with all the communities, including yours. They should support him, they should thank him and they should recognize the work. And on the other hand, for the culture of care. We know that prevention is the best ally, and therefore we have not removed the masks from the interior, even though we have been asked to do so, nor have we removed the masks from the outside if there is no distance, because we know it. But, ladies and gentlemen, how shameless it is to put a but to the vaccination of this country, if we are world leaders, leaders in the world, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I think they have to make him look at it. [[Applauds]] The question I ask myself would be reversed, Mrs Velasco, do you ever think of being useful to this government? No, no, But yes to the citizenship of this country? Think about it and be useful for once. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA JOSUNE GOROSPE ELEZKANO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to TAKE TO ACCEPT [[EAJ-PNV]] THE RECOGNIZATION OF THE MEDICAL SPECIALITY OF INFECIOUS DISEASES? [[File number 180/000714]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u116	Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u117	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. We would like to know what steps the Government will take to advance the recognition of the medical specialty of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u118	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain is committed to strengthening and expanding our country's professional development capabilities for the best performance of our healthcare professionals. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u120	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u121	Minister, we have not chosen any day to ask you this question, we have chosen December 1 for some reason. You, indeed, like me, carry the red ribbon and today is the World AIDS Response Day. But we also wear masks, because AIDS - a pandemic caused by an infectious disease - has caused more than thirty million deaths. We're all wearing masks, you and I wearing the Cesida mask. Cesida already eleven years ago asked for recognition of this infectious disease and then said: Throughout Europe only the Spanish State, Luxembourg and Belgium have not recognized the specialty. But, look, this is the map of the European Union, see how many are in yellow? [[shows a map of the European Union in which all countries are in green, except Spain, which is in yellow]] The only one that has not advanced in the recognition of the specialty of infectious diseases is the Spanish State. It is frankly incredible, because I will also teach you another ECDC report, which five years ago came invited by the ministry to analyze the real problem for global antimicrobial resistance health... [[shows a document]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u122	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u123	Invited by the ministry, I insist. It is also a serious problem. And he said in the diagnosis and in the measures that he proposed that in the State the specialty of infectious diseases was not recognized, and therefore hinders the training of specialists in this field. These are scientific-technical reasons, but of course the knowledge that is accumulating around these infectious diseases makes it necessary to be a specific specialty. It's a lot for it to be a training area, a lot, and what is expected for the future well you know you're going to follow that line. Do you know what the solution is? This, which it has used in August to recognize another medical specialty, make an emergency decree in which it is recognized - because it is really urgent - and give solution to this claim, which different ministers in 2016, in 2017, and Illa in 2020 already made, but different proposals of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party, and with support from the whole House and us... [[shows a document]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, we know that the pandemic has brought out the strengths of our National Health System, but also the weaknesses, which have become challenges for the Government, and one of them, as I said before, is to strengthen each and every one of the capacities of the National Health System, mainly the one that we are now dealing with, that of professional development that necessarily passes through specialized health training. I would like to say to you that since Pedro Sánchez is President of this government, specialized health training has only increased, after the minority - which has caused so much damage - of the governments of the People's Party. From 2018 until now we have increased by 32% the places offered, and I want to share that we will approve, ladies and gentlemen, a real decree of specialties that will establish the criteria and procedures, in a structured way, in those areas of specialization that by its entity could be considered specialties. Tomorrow, in the interterritorial council that we are going to hold face-to-face in the city of Cordoba, I hope that it will be approved and unanimously adopted by all the members of the council. From there, with this royal decree of specialties, we can establish what are the creations of these specialties. As you say, Mrs Gorospe, today is World Day for Action against HIV, and I also thank you for this question today. I want to acknowledge all health professionals, especially in the field of infectious diseases, who for forty years - today we also celebrate the first diagnosis of HIV/AIDS - have been working. They are an example of coordinated action and solidarity. Once we have this royal decree of specialties this minister has the commitment of active listening and sensitivity, to continue advancing in each and every one - there are many - but especially in this one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE KANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DOES THE GOVERNMENT IMPLANT THE SERVICE OF RAILWAY CERCANIES IN GALICIA? [[File number 180/00707]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u126	Question addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the Government plan to implement the railway proximity service in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u128	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Rego. The Government, as you well know, is financing the nearby rail transport services in Galicia, and it is doing so primarily through its provision of medium-distance trains, corresponding to public service obligations. In addition to having public service rates, users of these trains also have the possibility to purchase different forms of subscription, which also offer important discounts. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u130	Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u131	Madam Minister, you have not answered me, and I am not surprised, because only a week ago you were voting against an amendment by the BNG to implement the railways in our country. Look, exactly 20 days from now, the AVE Ourense-Madrid will be operational. All right, of course, but in addition to arriving almost thirty years late on the initial date, as I recalled last week in the budget debate, the concern of most Galicians and Galicians is not to arrive one hour earlier in Madrid, but to be able to move on public transport in their usual movements for work, study or other reasons. And that's where the problem is. The state's infrastructure policies in Galicia have forgotten to promote the modernisation of the internal rail network - with the exception of the Atlantic Axis network, which has not yet been completed, by the way - and to provide our country with adequate services. In Galicia, as much as you say, Renfe's proximity does not exist, and yet no one from this or another government has explained to us why. It's not a population problem. Note that there is a service of proximity in cities of 270,000 inhabitants and urban areas of 400 000. Only the city of Vigo is located in 300,000 inhabitants and the urban region Pontevedra-Vigo in 700,000. For its part, the urban region of A Coruña-Ferrol reaches 650 000 inhabitants. So, Minister, could you answer this simple question? Why aren't the railways in Galicia running? We cannot seriously talk about energy transition without a clear railway bet - an effective, efficient and sustainable mode of mobility; certainly the way of mobility of the future - and that involves practical policies and public resources. Look, Saturday I was participating in a concentration in Lugo demanding a decent train, because the A Coruña line is obsolete and unelectrified, and with Santiago there is no direct connection. Yesterday we presented an initiative because the arrival of the AVE modifies timetables and harms the usual travelers of the Ourense-Santiago-A Coruña axis, in addition to punishing them with exaggerated prices. This does not promote the use of public transport, Minister. That is why I ask you a simple question, when are you going to implement the service of railway proximity in Galicia with adequate frequencies, timetables and prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u132	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u133	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Rego, you know - and if not, I say to you - that this government is committed to Galicia; and we are also committed to railway services of proximity, whether or not they are called services of proximity, to the extent that we know - and everyone recognizes - that it is the green and sustainable mode of transport, which is the most respectful of the environment and is also the most appreciated or one of the most appreciated by citizens. In the specific case of Galicia, it currently has a scheduled public service offer with more than 540 trains per week. The demand for conventional mid-distance services in Galicia at the moment is about 38% less than before the pandemic, but Renfe's will is to continue to complete the restoration of the pre-pandemic supply of services over the coming months. As proof of this - and you also referred to the same data - next December 21st will be restored 100% of Avant de Ourense, Santiago, A Coruña services, and also the mid-distance trains To Coruña, Santiago, Vigo-Urzáiz. In addition, I would also like to highlight the plan for the renewal of the train fleet that these services provide, initiated in 2019, which provides for the renewal of approximately 50% of the nearby and mid-distance trains, with a total investment of more than €3.5 billion. This improvement in public services is fully compatible with the improvement and expansion of high-speed connections, once their arrival in Galicia has been completed. With regard to Lugo - and you know it - we have managed to reduce travel times... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u134	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u135	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the forecasts of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda regarding the implementation of new payment and charging systems for the use of high capacity fast lanes, as well as the elimination and bonus of tolls with special reference to the Asturias-Madrid radial axis, which includes the AP-6, Villalba-Adanero, and the AP-66, Huerna motorway. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, has the government learned that inflation has been triggered, the shopping basket has been disrupted and the cost of living has been increased? Are you aware that a sector which is essential for the economy, such as road freight transport, is suffering, in addition to the great hardships caused by the rise of fuels, the labour penalties resulting from the pandemic? Has the Government calculated the ravages of severe mobility restrictions and traffic bans imposed on transport during the two states of alarm by the Council of Ministers, which have been declared unconstitutional following VOX's resources? [[The Lord]] Madam Minister, in the second question that I have addressed to you since, in mid-July, you took over the ownership of this department, I am interested in the new toll on the use of motorways, which the Vaseline language of the Moncloa tries to soften by calling itself 'charification by the use of high-speed roads'. However, tolling, pricing, collecting, viñetazo, canon, sablazo, sacaquartos or how they want to baptize, is an unprecedented issue in the history of Spain that has aroused the rejection of the sectors concerned and the citizen's concern. Several autonomous governments have also shown their strong disagreement with this financing mechanism which is detrimental to the economy, because it will have an impact on freight and passenger transport costs. Some media outlets have published that the use of motorways will require an annual payment of between 40 and 50 euros per car, and double, i.e. around 100 euros, for trucks. Do you confirm that? In addition, the collection voraciousness will not stop. Urban tolls, derived from the use of vehicles in the so-called low-emission zones, are also announced, the management and collection of which will be the responsibility of the municipalities, as envisaged in a document of guidelines of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition inspired by the preliminary draft of the law on sustainable mobility drawn up by the Ministry of Transport. Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, with a gloomy tactic that has been reiterated in other important matters for Spain, information on a political decision of such significance as the charging for the use of high-capacity roads, which the Government has already communicated to the European Commission involved in the commitments of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, is being stolen from society and its democratic representatives. No information or participation, because after more than two years since the Government slips through the newspaper El País, which intends to apply a payment on free highways - a symbolic payment, the headline said - the opacity closes on that announcement, which accompanied by laconic explanations from its predecessor, Mr. Ábalos, victim of the government crisis produced last summer. Now you are still on the sidelines, because a few days ago, after gathering some data, the Secretariat of State for Relations with the Courts very carefully referred me to the content of your appearance before the Committee on Transport of this House on 16 September and to the evanescent response you gave at the previous monitoring session last month to the relevant question from Mr Lorite, from the People's Parliamentary Group, who, with his credited tenacity, again asked you about the intentions of the ministry during the very recent budget debate in section 17. Unnecessarily, as has happened with pensions, labour reform, taxation and other matters of exceptional public interest. We are dealing with another issue on which we suspect that in Brussels they already have very reliable records of their intentions and that the start of the payment for the use of motorways will be approved in this XIV Legislature, it is said that with effect for 2024. Although it is Sánchez and Spain with empty pockets, very few of us would be surprised that the Executive was awakened in the implementation of the measure. Given the perverse nature of this mandate, they may decide with the help of their preferred partners in the case of EH Bildu. But, as I say, neither in the appearance nor in the response in the control session did you display much clarity that we say. You sent the matter to the Commission in less than forty seconds; forty seconds to ensure that there would be dialogue on this new payment on the Spanish. Again, wrongly, the Government has taken the option of fait accompli. When we learn the details of his purposes, it will be too late and, worse, irreversible. All Spaniards will go through the box. And when I say it all, I say it all, because directly and indirectly not a single Spaniard will be exempt from this new tithe, which will impact the economy as a whole under the pretext of environmental sustainability and fair recovery, which is the false mantra used by this government to attack the citizens' pocket and innovate with collecting formulas by land, sea, air and, if nobody prevents it, roads. Minister, in this first half of my question I asked you to abandon the opacity and transfer to the Congress of Deputies the intentions and progress of the Government in order, if necessary, to apply the payment for the use of high-capacity highways or roads. This is a matter that has outraged the truckers and, in fact, has already been called for an arrest for three days in December, on dates close to Christmas, to protest this measure of the Executive of Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, the Asturians are also concerned about this payment mechanism because it would affect the entire A-8, the Cantabrian Highway, and the A-63, the South-West Highway between Oviedo and La Espina, whose construction is progressing by tortoise and has been blocked in Salas for more than seven months as a result of an argayo. By the way, an emotional hug from Congress for the family of the deceased for a collapse of rocks on the AS-15 road, in Tineo, last week, south-west of Asturias, south-west abandoned. The creative toll would also affect the A-66, Silver Road, including the 'Y' motorway that connects the three major population centers of the region. Nor would the Gijon-Villavicious connection with the Transcantábrica motorway be free of this payment for use. Also, given the well-known political confluence of the presidents of the governments of Spain and the Principality, Sánchez and Barbón, so much mounts, some do not have the slightest doubt that a system similar to that of the state will be enabled on autoways of autonomous ownership, because in order to express the money of the citizens the socialists never waste the occasion. In fact, it has been published that collecting intentions will also extend to all roads, both national and regional and local. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of a growing socio-economic crisis, the effects that payment for the use of road infrastructure would have on the economy are very damaging. And for Asturias more, because they would add to the tearing case of the road radial axis that communicates with Madrid, the most expensive in Spain measured in spending per kilometer traveled, and to the increasingly crazy prices of fuels. This itinerary is objectively discriminatory for the entire north-west peninsula, because road communications with the capital of Spain also penalize Castile and León, Galicia, Cantabria and, as I say, the Principality. It is therefore difficult to understand that, from the gradual cancellation of motorway concessions, the Government has excluded the tolls of the AP-6, Villalba-Adanero section, which includes the Guadarrama tunnel, and that of the high mountain motorway that runs through the Huerna, between Asturias and León. Minister of Mobility and Urban Agenda, both for private vehicles and for the transport of passengers and goods, the costs for the use of the road radial axis between Asturias and Madrid represent a historic loss of competitiveness that shakes a decaying Asturian productive fabric and keeps us in the red light of the working population rate, with a regrettable European record of youth unemployment and an alarming and constant loss of population. With the approval of the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2022, the autonomous communities and users linked to the use of this radial axis with the center of Spain have been added another opportunity to compensate the ballasts derived from a peripheral geographical situation. The socialist stages after overcoming the process of public accounts here in Congress camouflaged the shameful withdrawal of an amendment from its coalition partners, Unidad Podemos, in order to increase by 2 million euros the insufficient bonuses contemplated to use the toll of the highway of Huerna. For this reason, what remained of the grandiose and repeated socialist promise to cancel the Toll of the Huern? What was the Northwest Plan approved in 2004 by an extraordinary Council of Ministers chaired by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero in León? What is left, gentlemen of the PSOE, of their free alternative to the Huerna with the unfolding project of the N-630, Leon-La Robla-Asturias, who were baptized as the Pajares highway? The answer is nothing. In those nearly eight years of Zapatero's government they left Spain as an erial, and not only in employment. From the Northwest Plan, nothing; the promised cancellation of Huerna's toll, nothing; the free Pajares highway, nothing. And, above all, in 2010, the Minister of Development, José Blanco, paralyzed all the works in execution of the Infrastructure and Transport Plan 2000-2010 promoted by the Aznar Government, among them, different sections of the highway of the Cantabrian in Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria. It also paralyzed the works of the South West Highway and also stopped the modernization of the railway corridor in the northwest and the works of the variant of Pajares. That socialist government also fulminated any progress related to the Cantabrian AVE, which had been approved by the PP government within the Galician Plan. I conclude, Madam President. The recently completed month of November, plagued by incidents - and not all weather - has reflected the Government's abandonment of Asturian road and rail infrastructure. She invited the Minister to explain her intentions and plans to solve these important problems. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u137	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I shall proceed to answer the terms of your inquiry. You raised different questions about the situation of the road network and infrastructure in Asturias and also about the study of the announced system of charging for use. I will answer those questions, but I will start by addressing those relating to the situation of the AP-66 and A-66 motorways. I think you are well aware of what is the reason for the current situation in which these routes are located, because you were largely the necessary author or co-operator of the measures that were adopted in your day and which, of course, have affected and are decisive in knowing and explaining the state and current situation of these routes. As far as AP-66 is concerned, the concession, as you will recall, was awarded in 1975 and granted for forty-six years, so it should have been completed on 17 October 2021. During the early years, the concession had to be faced with significant economic difficulties due to the high cost of construction and also the lower revenues that were being generated. This led to the decision, in 1983, to acquire all the shares by the State through the National Highway Company, which was responsible for the completion of the works. At this point, two decisions were made by the then-ministers who fully explain the situation in which the highway is currently located. The first was the modification of the concession in 2000 for the consolidation of the tariff reduction that had been applied as a result of the financial situation of the motorway, which led to an extension of the concession period for twenty-nine years, until 2050, becoming the duration of the concession of seventy-five years. It was a decision taken by the People's Party government, of which you were then a senator, which meant prolonging for twenty-nine years the burden of paying tolls for users of this infrastructure, for citizens and the business fabric of Asturias and Leonés. The second decision was to privatize the highway in 2003, which at the time belonged to the State National Highway Company. The current situation is therefore that of a freeway subject to a concessional contract with a total duration of seventy-five years and tariffs that are established and therefore must be complied with. As far as the AP-6 motorway is concerned, that of Villalba-Adanero, as is known, the concession was awarded in 1968 and granted for fifty years, so it ended on January 29, 2018. Therefore, if nothing else had happened, the highway should be free of tolls today. However, once again, a decision by the People's Party Government is not allowing users of this motorway to move free of charge through it. In 1999, the Government awarded the administrative concession for the construction, maintenance and operation of the AP-61 toll highways, the AP-6 connection with Segovia, AP-51 and the AP-6 connection with Ávila. That concession also included the conservation and operation of the AP-6 toll freeway, Villalba-Adanero, from 30 January 2018 in exchange for the corresponding toll charge, i.e. from the expiry of the period of the concession of the AP-6 until the end of the concessional period, which is currently set for the year 2029. In short, Your Honor, the highways you are so possibly interested in now would be free of charge if these decisions were not taken by the governments of the People's Party in the years 1999 and 2000, when you were a senator to that party. This situation of territorial imbalance due to the existence of areas in Spain in which citizens have to pay tolls, compared to others in which they move through the network free of charge and do not have to pay, is what we are trying to correct since we arrived at the Government, with the aim of starting the bases of a balanced and fair network management model for all citizens and all territories. We have taken different measures. First, the release of tolls from motorways that complete their concession, being the first Government that does not extend tolls at the end of their concession. In addition, we have carried out a 30% discount on motorway charges that Seitsa manages and the establishment of gratuity during the night period, and we have also promoted the application of bonuses in light and heavy vehicles on certain sections of motorways, such as the AP-9, to improve their functionality and compensate recurring users. We are talking about measures that involve an estimated annual savings for citizens of around €1400 million. In this context, we have also begun to analyse the situation of the AP-66. We are aware and sensitive to this demand made from the territory, as the AP-66 actually has one of the highest rates of highways in the state's road network. This motorway has the following toll bonuses, which were approved by the Socialist Government in 2006 and 2007, respectively: for heavy vehicles, 30% of the toll amount, and as a rule, up to 50% for recurrent light vehicles. These bonuses already account for between 11 and 15 % of toll revenues per year on the motorway. It is clear that we cannot achieve a 100% subsidy on the motorway's revenue, but we have made the decision to improve and abound in the existing toll subsidies. For this reason, we have increased the allocations for bonuses in the AP-66, in the Draft Law on General Budgets of the State of 2022, to reach 9.12 million euros, in order to implement new measures that we already have under consideration. In any case, they will be agreed with the Government of the Principality of Asturias and also with the Junta de Castilla y León, on the line that we have so far marked to improve the habituality in the conditions of movement and the safety of the corridor formed by the motorway and the alternative road N-630. In the case of AP-6, in recent years the ministry has jointly studied the application of bonuses with the Board of Castile and León. However, the structure and intensity of traffic on this highway makes it more difficult to improve and reduce tolls at a reasonable cost for both administrations. For example, consideration has been given to establishing a bonus for heavy vehicles, along with a mandatory diversion for them to travel through AP-6, thus avoiding movement through N-6. However, you will also be aware of the Supreme Court's judgment of July 2019 on heavy-duty diversions in La Rioja, which established the need for prior justification for this type of measures to improve road safety, so this type of heavy-duty diversion bonuses are more difficult to apply at this time. In addition, different bonuses have been envisaged for round-trip journeys in the day between certain links, but they also have a very important economic impact. In any case, we are prepared to continue exploring on all tracks, as we have done, measures that can reduce the cost of tolling on this highway. Finally, with regard to the system of financing our road network, as you well know - and you have said - it is a debate, a debate that has been open for years in Spain and in Europe, because the maintenance of our roads represents a significant and growing amount that is currently paid from the general budgets of the State, it is paid by all Spanish and Spanish, regardless of the use or not of the road network of the State. We must therefore be aware that we also have a significant investment deficit in the maintenance of the road network generated over the last decade and that it has been accompanied by a marked increase in the network in recent years, with new kilometres of infrastructure that we have put into service. But in addition to this conservation problem, we believe that the current situation of toll freeways generates territorial imbalances, imbalances which, as I have explained to you before, we are beginning to correct with important measures, but above all with which we need to deepen. We are a responsible government, which does not look elsewhere and wants to work - I have said it repeatedly - on a proposal subject to a broad political and social consensus to ensure the financing of our road network and the fulfilment of our climate objectives. We want it to be a fair, balanced proposal based on the principles of territorial equity, road safety and environmental sustainability. It will be a proposal that, I insist, will be subject to discussion and consensus. We are at that point, do not anticipate, we are about to put forward that proposal and put it to debate and consensus. In short, Your Honor, the aim of this Government is to move towards a model in which we correct territorial differences in the payment of tolls, but always taking into account that these are concessional contracts with respect to motorways and that while the concession does not win, either they are met with tariffs, or they are mitigated by bonuses that come out of the budget of this ministry. We will continue to study the situation of the AP-66 in Asturias and León because it is one of the ones that bear the highest rates. We therefore want to continue to deepen all kinds of measures to correct these territorial inequalities in our country, but also to ensure that our road network is maintained and that our environmental objectives are met. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, your departure by the tangent leaves me free to raise the motion with which to offer the plenary of Congress the opportunity to rule on these matters, that in the case of Huerna and the discriminatory radial axis that connects with Madrid is of interest to Asturias and to the whole of the northwest peninsula, and that in the case of the tolls of the highways is of utmost national interest because it responds to a very damaging measure for the economy in general and very harmful to the transporters in particular, which is added to the sequels of this government of ruin, which yesterday placed the last month's CPI on a 5.6% climb. And you're thinking irresponsiblely about tolls. In Spain, Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, the Spaniards have always, always, paid the maintenance of the highways and roads in charge of taxes, so it would be a hit-and-run to pay twice for the same; a hit-and-run. His Government, as all the previous ones have done, is under an obligation to ensure road safety, conservation and maintenance of all roads within its competence, as well as the modernization of the road network and the construction of new infrastructure through taxpayers or through the financing of temporary concessions to construction companies. You recriminate the extension of the Huerna concession until 2050 that began to compute months ago and peak - I recalled in your intervention - because the beginning of the concession is 1975, with a relevant date, 1983, when the government of Felipe González took over the works, very complicated, because we are talking about a high mountain highway and therefore difficult to execute. By the way, high mountains and very high user fees, because, with so much criticism of the Aznar Government, you have forgotten that, thanks to this management, the heavy socialist tariffs of the order of 7% have been lowered, which you have never raised and which has been maintained in percentage for two decades. In your speech, Minister, you have also not been able to recall that the extension of the Huerna concession allowed, in addition to this important tariff discount, the continuity between Leon and Benavente through the A-66, which the Socialist Government had planned as a toll freeway and which the People's Party Government built in less than four years as a freeway, one of those high-capacity routes to which you now want to apply that pricing, that toll freeway. Minister, from Asturias the government has been called upon to begin a gradual reduction of the Toll of the Huerna until it is eliminated. The recent approval of the budgets has meant a colossal jar of cold water because of the insufficient appropriation, which could not be compensated by the vetoes of the Government to the amendments submitted by the opposition and also one of them by the United States Podemos, one of the two parties that are part of the Executive. It can be seen that in the Government, on this issue, there are pond compartments, which contradict each other, and they remain so wide and so wide. I hope, Minister, that we can make rapid progress in that direction. In any case, of Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero's solemn promise to eliminate the Toll of the Huerna, have you nothing to say? And of the promise of the free alternative, baptized as the Pajares motorway or highway, something to point out? Any news, Mrs. Sánchez Jiménez? It coincides, finally, with this interpellation with the railway blockade of Asturias as a consequence of the abandonment of the Pajares ramp, it coincides with the neighborly indignation of the southwest for the abandonment and for the parsimony in resolving the slang. Your Government does not have a single forecast of new road infrastructure, which had been removed by you, your Government, from a pen, in the case of the road links to the port of El Musel, agreed since 2005, and you have crushed your own agreement. In this 21st century, the PSOE has not promoted a single infrastructure project or one in Asturias. That is why, Mr President, I conclude by reiterating my intention to submit to the plenary of the Congress of Deputies a motion for the Congress itself to rule on these issues, which are of crucial importance to the present and future of Asturias and Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u142	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. You come back with the same argument to ask me again about the state of infrastructure in Asturias and what are the government's plans for such infrastructure. I believe that I have answered you in my first speech, but in order to go a little deeper on issues to which you have also referred, I would like to say that I cannot at all share your overall view of what this government is doing in Asturias. We must remember the reflection of this commitment in the budgets of the ministry for this next year, for the year 2022: the investment in Asturias of 480 million euros. It is almost 50% more than the extended budget for 2018. It also referred to railway infrastructure. Here we are working intensely. We have cleared up technical, political and economic uncertainties, which now allows us to have clear horizons. Last September 20th we started the tests of the variant of Pajares - that is already a reality - and a few days later, Mr Martínez Oblanca, the passing station of León came into operation. We are also pushing the shock plan to mitigate the incidences in the vicinity, especially in the metric width network. In the field of roads, we have also increased investment and continue to work on one of our priorities, safety, with actions in the conservation and rehabilitation of farms. We have also driven the A-63 and the third lane in a stretch of the A-66 between Lugones and Matalablima. We also continue with the necessary actions to provide better road access to the port of El Musel. In ports also stand out the docking and shelter works, as well as the extension in Avilés of the service area of the port. We also have in Gijón actions to improve rail accessibility and the new inspection centre. And at the airport we have actions to improve security and electrical systems. These are actions that are being carried out, which are planned, and which have budgetary appropriations, although you obviously take a much greater interest in your intervention. Also in Asturias we are working with high-speed services, comparable in services, in times and in all those of the major Spanish and European cities. In any case, I must tell you that there were informative studies that sought to analyse the extension of the high-speed network from Pola de Lena to the cities of Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés and that, after submitting these informative studies to public information and that the results were negative, as opposed to several municipalities, even some industry, the government that you supported decided to give up on them. [[Applauds]] That is why I remind you that, as far as the infrastructure situation in Asturias is concerned, you are largely responsible. Nor are you examples to follow in the area of infrastructure management policies; I say this again because you were a senator of the People's Party from 1996 to 2004, and your political formation, Forum Asturias, supported the investiture of the governments of Mariano Rajoy. I remind you that the radial highways were driven, fundamentally, with the governments of the People's Party, inflating traffic expectations and underestimating the cost of expropriations. The governments of the People's Party have systematically extended the concessions. Without going further, in 2000 they extended AP-9 for twenty-five years and AP-66 for twenty-nine years, harming Galicians and Asturians and perpetuating territorial imbalances. And in the case of motorways whose concession was nearing completion, they merely said that the concessions would not be extended, but they did absolutely nothing. They also helped us build up a deficit in investment and infrastructure maintenance, which averages 300 million a year between 2012 and 2017. Faced with that, we're acting. We are earmarking historical amounts for the maintenance of the State Road Network, more than €1.3 billion for the budgets of 2022, and we are raising a loyal, transparent, rigorous, serene debate that is the fruit of consensus, so that we can resolve, as we have already said, the misguided that the previous governments, with you as an accomplice...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u143	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u144	...,caused in the maintenance of our country's infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the Government's road haulage policy. [[File number 172/000154]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u146	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the Government's policy on the transport of goods by road. For your defense, Mr. Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, can you tell me how many meetings you've had with the National Road Transport Committee since you were part of the government? I'm telling you, none. And I'm just going to need you to tell me now in your speech that tomorrow you'll keep one, because it's too late. You have failed to respect the highest body of representation and participation of transport in Spain, a consultative body that was created on the basis of the Land Transport Management Act. And it is that circumventing the dialogue with this body in the end means putting the transport sector at a certain risk of structural failure. The seriousness of its inaction is evident, given that the transport of goods by road accounts for 95% of the transport and that it also directly employs more than 600 000 people. These six hundred thousand people have seen their patience with you exhausted and have decided to call for an unemployment, a cessation of activity at the gates of the Christmas dates, in particular for the days 20, 21 and 22. Mrs Sánchez, since the National Road Transport Committee called for this unemployment, my parliamentary group has asked for your attendance, and you, as always, have ignored it. That is why we have this urgent inquiry today. You, Minister, have the same allergy to parliamentary control that your predecessor had, you never want to explain, and you also use the same lies as a method. Mrs Sánchez, you came here to be a minister of the Government of Spain and today you are something like an ambassador of the interests of independence to the Executive. Minister, you have generated conflict after conflict in each and every one of the sectors that bind your competition matters, conflicts in airlines, conflicts with Renfe drivers, conflicts with property owners and even conflicts with public transport users, who see their services cut short. Mrs. Sánchez, you can't do any worse in less time. Look, the transporters guaranteed home supply during the confinement, and you left them, you haven't even received a single euro of direct aid from this government. But there are more setbacks, like that of his inaction just a year ago when they suffered the blockade in the UK during the temporary Filomena. It is a sector abused by the Government of Spain. In the summer of 2020 it reached a limit and reacted with an unemployment. This arrest you saved with a letter of 23 July 2020 in which you made a series of commitments, but which you did not then execute, generating the indignation of the sector, so there is a new call for cessation of activity for this Christmas. Mrs Sánchez, one of the issues to which the Government committed itself in that letter was the ban on loading and unloading that truckers are obliged to do in many cases. You were going to eliminate it by the end of 2020 and it is clear that you have failed. I ask you today when the loading and unloading tasks, which are causing the shortage of drivers, are going to be banned, because it is hard and painful that after driving you have the obligation to load and unload once you reach the destination. There are countries in which you can fix yourself, such as Portugal, which has already incorporated into your legal system this ban that we are asking for today. I also ask you when you are going to agree to change the rules of weight and dimensions of trucks, because you are also not complying with that. There is also a great lack of specialized drivers on this issue. What measures do you intend to take to avoid the shortage of drivers, which is now 15 thousand? But the worst of the deceptions, Mrs Sánchez, comes precisely from the matter of tolls, payment for use, as you like to call it. You said in that letter of July 2020 to the National Road Transport Committee that you were not going to implement it if there was no agreement with the sector, a commitment that the government immediately failed to deliver to the Council of Ministers an agreement on 27 April 2021 within the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that spoke of the need to develop a payment-for-use system to assume and cover maintenance costs and integrate negative externalities. That is, tolls and without the slightest dialogue, Minister. And the annex to that plan sets out how you are going to do it and at what time: you are going to incorporate this pricing into the law on sustainable mobility and transport financing, which will have to be implemented in the year 2024. But in addition, you have assured in a number of parliamentary statements that the text of this law will be approved by the Council of Ministers before the end of 2021. Then, Minister, where is the dialogue? Where's the consensus? What's your model, Minister? In the model it is true that you have indefinition. Which roads will these tolls apply to? Who's going to have to pay them and how much money is going to have to pay? But you have a clear determination to apply it on that date that I told you. Who did you talk to? With absolutely no one, with transporters, with users, with parliamentary groups and with autonomous communities; with absolutely no one, but they are going to implement a measure that will frustrate the competitiveness of Spanish society and economic recovery. But you come here to talk about tolls saying they are necessary for conservation and maintenance. And what about the state's revenue of more than EUR 14 billion in fuel tax? What's that for? Minister, you begin to implement the investments you have in your budget and then come to this rostrum to talk about conservation and maintenance deficits. I remind you that in the year 2021 you have only been able to execute 40% of your ministry's investments. Minister, it's demagogic to remove tolls on highways while preparing a fee on all highways. Since June 2018 you have eliminated tolls in more than 1000 kilometers, and I remind you that the economic-financial report of the General Budgets of the State says that you have done so without foreseeing any alternative. Mrs. Sánchez, there's no problem. The increase in fuels by more than 30% is also alarming for a sector which has a direct cost of more than 40% in this area. Also the AdBlue, which as you know is an additive that has the components of the diesel engine, has risen in less than a month 100 %. All of this makes a service in transport almost at a loss, being more profitable, in many cases, than a truck is stopped, without doing any transportation work. Please see neighbouring countries such as Portugal and France, where extraordinary measures have already been taken, such as the reduction of the fuel tax in Portugal or the introduction of a fuel check in the professional sector, in the case of France. However, you have done absolutely nothing to alleviate that situation. I ask you: When do you intend to regulate the obligation to establish the clause of the revision of the cost of fuel in logistic contracts? When, Mrs. Sanchez? Because it cannot be that the weakest link in the logistics chain is the one that has to bear the losses by increasing the price of fuels. By the way, what about the elimination of professional diesel, which you have raised? What about those tax subsidies that, today, apply to key sectors for the Spanish economy, such as the transport, agriculture and livestock sectors? Is it true that you have already raised the elimination of professional diesel? Because that would be the final point for some sectors that, due to their negligence, are badly damaged at the moment. What are you going to do, Mrs Sánchez, to alleviate the critical situation that transporters are experiencing? His Government had abandoned them. You're not talking to them. Are you planning to do something to avoid the unemployment that transport has planned on such critical dates as Christmas? Imagine what that might mean. It is what you are giving rise to with your negligent attitude and with your poor management. Mrs Sánchez, I recommend that you start to manage, but above all to listen to a sector so crucial to the Spanish economy, which we have to thank so much and which has taught us how to be constant and absolutely patriotic, especially during the pandemic, at a time when your Government was looking elsewhere and they were doing those tasks that guaranteed home supply. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Lorite. Look, we are aware, as much as you or more, of the importance of the road freight sector and the specific challenges it faces, as well as of the situation they are going through, both at national and European level - this issue does not only affect our country -. That is why, from the ministry, we have always reiterated our firm commitment to addressing, with the actors involved, the challenges of freight and road transport to strengthen the sector. In this regard, I would like to point out that a recovery of traffic is being experienced. According to the data provided by the Permanent Survey on the Transport of Goods by Road, they are recovering and it is a very positive trend, due to the increase in the activity we are experiencing, and it is foreseeable that it will be maintained in the near future. We are, moreover, at a time of great transformation of all transport and mobility, which some call disruptive, and here the transport of goods by road must, of course, be protagonist and leader. In this context, this ministry is working on three instruments - you have referred to one of them - that define public policy on mobility and transport: the sustainable, secure and connected mobility strategy, the future sustainable mobility law and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. To address the challenges of the transport of goods by road, we are working with a specific instrument, the Impulse Plan to boost the sustainability of the transport of goods by road. This is the first time that a specific plan has been drawn up for the sustainability of this sector, to which we have wanted to give a triple perspective, social, economic and environmental. This plan is aimed at strengthening the sector, improving its prestige and also its robustness as an economic sector. I would like to stress, first of all, that we are putting forward this plan with a dialogue approach with the whole sector. Yes, dialogue with the sector. The result and example of this are the four meetings that we have held with the representatives appointed by the national committee, in which proposed measures have been revised on those three blocks to which I referred, namely socio-laboral, economic and environmental. This has enabled us to send you a draft of measures before the summer, to which you have made a number of observations that you have recently sent us. Secondly, it is also essential to stress that the plan is an integral and balanced set of measures and as such must be understood and evaluated, so that all the actors involved benefit from it. The plan is not a set of measures to be chosen, it is a balanced set that allows all actors to move forward. In this ministry we are confident that the sector will be able to seize the opportunity of having a comprehensive set of measures for its momentum. After a long time, it is a unique opportunity to have a road map that marks the goals of the coming years in a clear and determined way. For the implementation of part of the Impulse Plan measures we have two major tools that I mentioned before, the law of sustainable mobility and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. With regard to the law on sustainable mobility, we are working with other ministries to have an articulated text and, as you said, to present it at first reading to the Council of Ministers before the end of this year. It will include a specific title on improving the competitiveness and efficiency of freight transport, on which we are currently working with the sector. The investment lines that will be promoted in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which is the road map for the modernization of the economy, are also particularly relevant. I would like to highlight a number of issues that refer to the demands of this sector. Secure parking. The Recovery Plan provides for a funding line to areas of the State Roads Network linked to the private initiative, including the financing of works for the development of new secure parking areas for trucks and commercial vehicles. It also provides improvement works for the safety and protection of parking areas on existing roads, as well as to optimize the use of the secure parking network. The allocation of this aid will reach EUR 20 million in the next call for aid to private companies in the transport aid programme. The maximum intensity of this grant shall be 50 % of the eligible costs for studies and up to 30 % for works and installations, as set out in the next regulatory regulation in this respect planned for the first quarter of 2022. In addition to the above, it should be borne in mind that the next call of the CEF 2021 also contains a line of aid, with a budget of EUR 100 million at European level. Another important line to highlight is that of fleet renewal in the sector, recently published. On 16 November we adopted in the Council of Ministers the Royal Decree establishing lines of aid for the transformation of fleets. They include both the change of vehicles powered by alternative energies and the energy supply points, lines equipped with 400 million euros. In this regard, it also highlights the line of aid for the flattening of vehicles registered before 1 January 2019: the equipment per vehicle is up to EUR 25 000, depending on the category of the vehicle and its age, defined in terms of its EURO emission standard. These aids are not necessarily linked to the acquisition of a new vehicle. And soon the National Road Transport Committee will be convened to have an information session where it will be able to explain in detail the content of the aids and resolve any doubts they may have about it, without prejudice to the information already available on the ministry's website. Among the actions linked to the Recovery Plan during 2022, progress will also be made on the lines linked to the digitization of the sector and the digital training of its personnel. These lines of aid for the digitisation of transport undertakings are intended to break down the entry barriers towards the digitisation of the sector, improving its competitiveness and efficiency and user service. They are provided with EUR 110 million and EUR 33 million respectively. There are also other important issues. Firstly, last year's approval of the first mobility package. We believe that this represents an important step forward in defending the wage and social conditions of workers in the sector and in legal certainty, through clear and uniform rules across Europe. This package will also make it possible to fight better against so-called mailbox companies and unfair competition. Secondly, I would like to point out that the General Courts recently approved the amendment of the Land Transport Management Act to establish a sanctioning regime for cases of late payment in the field of road freight transport; a milestone, no doubt. As regards payment for use, the charging of high capacity roads, from the beginning, and as I said earlier in this plenary session and on several occasions, the position of the ministry has been and remains the same, which needs to be opened up a wide debate, a space that is intended to open up. There is no doubt that there is a need for consensus on this and, in particular, on the transport sector. Indeed, we continue to work on solving other issues affecting transport companies through the continuous improvement of regulation, with a constant dialogue with the sector - I insist on a constant dialogue with the sector -. The announcement of mobilizations or employers' unemployment that the sector has made is well known to all. Of course, we do not share your claim that it is a sector abandoned by the Government, because, as I have told you, contact and work are continuous and intense. This is demonstrated by the recent legal amendment adopted to introduce, as I said earlier, a penalty system for late payment in this sector. In any case, I have already indicated that we are aware of the difficulties of the sector, some structural ones, which are the ones dealing with this Impulse Plan, and others more short-term ones, motivated, for example, by the increase in the price of fuel. In the ministry we always have the hand to negotiate, as we are doing, with the National Road Transport Committee. I would like to thank you for the attitude you have maintained at the last meeting, firm in defending your requests but, as it cannot otherwise be, also open to dialogue and negotiation. It is therefore a matter of seeking rapid solutions to the most pressing issues, and we are working on this, with a call for calm and a calm search for solutions. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by reiterating that Spain needs a strong road transport sector that adapts to the new challenges. This implies a process of transformation, looking to the future and overcoming situations of the past. The Impulse Plan, which is a balanced and comprehensive package of measures, is also an opportunity for the sector. That is where you will have me, Mr Lorite, working for competitiveness, for the improvement of the sector. You won't find me in the crespation, in the advance of the grunt, which is what you do. I will be focused on solving the problems that arise - it is true, they arise - because we are not afraid of the challenges and, of course, we are working to solve the problems that the sector is going through. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have wrongly argued, you have taken from the archiver what was not because you have made no mention of any matter relating to this inquiry. In fact, I am going to invite the road haulage sector to review its intervention because it proves not only that you leave the sector with your government action, but that you have abandoned it even in your own parliamentary intervention. [[Applauds]] Mrs Sánchez, you presume to have a dialogue with the sector and you have not had a dialogue once. You have not met with the National Road Transport Committee. That said, there is a saying that says, 'Tell me what you presume and I will tell you what you lack'. And that is precisely what you lack of dialogue with the sector. I will remind you of the reasons for this unemployment which the sector has called for, so that you focus, if possible, on these issues: the construction of rest areas, the ban on loading and unloading - which you promised in July 2020 and which you have not complied with - the measures which you are going to take - if any - to alleviate the rise in diesel oil which has been more than 30%, and to renounce, once and for all, the implementation of tolls. These are basically the four cases which prompted this call for unemployment on 20, 21 and 22 December in the road haulage sector. However, you come to this rostrum again to say that, indeed, at first reading, the Council of Ministers will pass the law on sustainable mobility and transport financing before the end of this year. But if you have less than a month left, what dialogue will you establish in less than a month to reach an agreement on charging, on payment for use, on tolls? You have already acted behind the back of the sector, you have already agreed on these measures in the Council of Ministers. Do not come to me with the same lies as Mr.Abalos because he went up to this rostrum and said to me: Mr.Lorite, this is a mere reflection. No, an agreement of the Council of Ministers is not a reflection, it is an executive agreement, Minister. Therefore, this is not opening up a debate as you have just said. You are committed to a measure that will tarnish the future of the Spanish transport sector and the Spanish economy as a whole. On the other hand, they are dedicated to filtering into the press what that measure is going to be like. One day they talk about the Eurovignette, another day of payment per kilometre, but here they come to say that they are in a mere debate and that they are open to dialogue. What dialogue? What have you two been talking about? As Mr Martínez Oblanca said earlier - by the way, I thank him for the generosity of his words -, you have been speaking for years - since that summer of 2019 in which Ábalos spoke of what he called soft tolls or'symbolic tolls' - and you have been doing informative pillaging and leaking to the press what he has agreed to them. Do you have any models for tolls? Are they going to implant them? I say to you that you do not have a model yet, but that we will soon learn why you are going to take it to the Council of Ministers within the framework of that law and, of course, what you have is a firm determination to implement this measure. Minister, end of story. With that attitude that you have demonstrated in this rostrum, I am afraid that it will not avoid something that can be catastrophic and very critical as is the unemployment of the sector on these important dates in the field of transport as are Christmas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u152	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u153	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite. You again insist on the same arguments about the lack of support, of dialogue with the transport sector. I do not want to repeat what I have already explained to you in my initial speech because I believe that, moreover, it has been quite exhaustive and detailed of what we are doing, although sometimes it is important to remind you. I was trying to place myself in the strategy, in the commitments this ministry has towards the transport sector and, moreover, also in the instruments with which we are going to equip ourselves to make possible that necessary support and that necessary transformation of the transport sector which, in addition, part of this commitment to dialogue that we have always carried out, but which we are going to continue to push from this ministry. There are a number of strategic documents and I repeat them again: the Sustainable Mobility Act, the Sustainable, Secure and Connected Mobility Strategy, and the instrument and funding that the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan allows us to do. That is what the strategy that we are going to address in this ministry in the transport sector is all about. Then he also explained that we are promoting, materializing and advancing a series of measures with the sector, agreed and passed on also the content of those measures from the Impulse Plan, which includes measures from this triple perspective: environmental, socio-laboral and economic. Therefore, I would also like to point out, for your peace of mind, that we are making progress on these measures. We have proceeded to make legislative amendments, such as the one mentioned above, to the Land Transport Management Act, to establish a sanctioning regime for cases of late transport of goods by road which are issues of concern and which are specific issues on which we are acting. We are also working on that negotiating table which is being held with the National Transport Committee in order to be able, above all, to anticipate those more concrete measures which concern them and which, above all, focus the demands on this announcement of employer unemployment called and announced for the days 20, 21, 22. We are also working on what measures can help to improve the conditions under which the loading and unloading relationship is given between carriers and shippers. We are addressing and putting forward measures to amend the legislation so that they are not left unprotected and are not subject to a relationship that, in the end, sometimes involves an abusive relationship between one side and another. With regard to the upgrading of secure parking facilities, I have also told you what investment is planned: EUR 20 million to strengthen and secure these areas of service and those secure parking facilities that the sector is demanding of us. I have also explained to him the continued provision of specific support for the transformation of the sector, digitisation and staff training. We are therefore making substantial progress on this whole package of measures which, of course, I would urge you, we will always adapt after dialogue and consensus with transporters, because we recognize the importance of the sector, we know it now and always. Obviously, they played a key role during the pandemic, guaranteeing the supply chain, but, of course, it is a sector that is fundamental to our country's economy and, therefore, will never be left to the abandonment of this Government, much less this Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. With regard to charging for the use of the road infrastructure network in our country, I have told you this by both active and passive. The compromise is to put forward a model and submit it to the debate and consensus of the social, economic, territorial and political actors. We already know that you are going to be against it, because without knowing the model, which is not defined, you anticipate what it is going to be. You're already anticipating what it's going to be without us even introducing it. We already know that you are going to be against it, although when you were ruling you had already carried out very detailed and comprehensive studies of what that use pricing system was supposed to be like. We are not going to avoid responsibility and even knowing that it is an issue that can generate edges and that, of course, we have to explain and in which we have to do pedagogy, we are going to address it. Of course, transporters can be clear that we are not going to implement a system that does not go through dialogue and consensus, as we committed ourselves to doing at the meeting held last July with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u154	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u155	Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u156	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the teaching of Castilian throughout the national territory. [[File number 172/000153]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u157	We turn to the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government will take to ensure the teaching of Spanish throughout the national territory. For your defence, Mrs. Trias Gil has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u158	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Yesterday the Socialist Party of Catalonia - its party, minister - voted against the application of the Supreme Court's ruling requiring at least 25% of school enrolment in Spanish. If you respect and obey the laws, why didn't you vote for it? [[Applauds]] Do you know what it means for eighty parents to face the leadership of an educational center and the Inspection? It's heroic. You're against a machine that's trying to crush you, says José Domingo, leader of AEB. They treat Spanish as a foreign language, just two and a half hours of Spanish a week, says a mother. This is how a Catalan educational centre responds to a request from the Spanish-speaking Association: 'We have no programming in Spanish, in Quechua, in Suahili, in Lemerig, in Chemehuevi...'. This battle is exhausting, but it has to be fought, says another father; I do it for my children and for my grandchildren; I managed to have the grades in Spanish, but not bilingual education, this is the nightmare for Catalan families to claim what is a constitutional right, which is the schooling of their children in Spanish: harassment, marking and exiles. The court ruling comes to me late, reports the mother who had to close her children's party business after the whole town turned her into a stinking mess. The Generalitat has told the schools not to comply with it - it says now - and, if drastic measures are not taken from Madrid, nothing will change. What is at stake is the unity of Spain and our constitutional rights, which the partners of its government - communists, secessionists and terrorists - continually attack. That supposed normalization they have been talking about for decades is actually an instrumentalization of the language, which uses as a bold weapon at the service of separatism and disaffection and hatred of everything that is Spanish. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] In Catalonia nothing is being normalized, what they do is impose a linguistic model of exclusive immersion, which divides Catalans and harms in particular the most vulnerable, the most socially disadvantaged, whose majority language is Spanish, and whom Barcelona's elitist mayor sends to study in private schools. You, with your policies of cesions and infamous pacts, are contributing to inoculate in generations of Catalans the idea that being Catalan carries with it the hatred of the Spanish and that, therefore, it is not possible to be Catalan but it is hated. No father should want his children to grow up with hatred at all, but it is also that stealing their Spanish, their own language, is stealing their heritage, their roots, their history, their traditions, their homeland. We could say Catalonia steals our identity. [[Applauds]] Being Catalan is also being Spanish and many Catalan families demonstrated it on October 6, 2017. On that day, after decades of silence and linguistic submission, after the failed coup d'état of October 1, the brave Catalans, waving the flag that unites us all, went out to the street to say: enough! But also, as a result of these events, unfortunately, many families broke down, because nationalism and separatism only bring violence, intolerance, division, corruption and ruin. The historic judgment of the Catalan High Court of Justice of December 2020, which ratified the Supreme Court on 23 November, lay the whole of the linguistic immersion, therefore, finding that the use of Spanish in Catalan schools is residual, obliges the Generalitat to place 25% of Spanish in all schools, not only in the class of the family that asks for it, and thus guarantee the duty and the right to know Spanish, according to article 3.1 of the Constitution. And the response of the Government of the Generality has not been delayed. It has directly asked the Catalan educational institutions to disobey and no longer teach in Spanish, in a letter order sent just 24 hours after the sentence affecting the entire Catalan education system. Moreover, it is supporting the street protests against the Supreme, without forgetting how you, members of the Government, continue to blackmail you, saying that the state must demonstrate that the model that draws this sentence is not its own and must act accordingly - we have heard it before - or that it has assurances from you, Minister, that the Socialist Party will not ask for the execution of the sentence. In fact, the counselor has already been denounced for alleged prevarication by the Spanish-speaking Association. The President of the Generality not only refuses to abide by the judgment, but has announced for the coming year the national pact for language, because he says that the current model has to be perfected, but in the opposite direction of what the Supreme Court says. [[shows a press clipping]] He also adds: 'We will not change the language model or urge schools to change it...'. In short, that seems to them little the model of imposition and linguistic oppression in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] They have prostituted education and are in disobedience. The situation, as we see, is exceptional, and exceptional must be the solution. Therefore, in VOX we request that the Government apply Article 155 and proceed with the intervention of the Catalan Autonomous Administration, not only to ensure that the judgments of the courts are complied with, but to intervene in Catalonia in any matter that is being systematically violated by the Government of the Generality, renewing the situation in favour of the general interest of the nation and of all its citizens. [[applause]] Because, as our parliamentarians in Catalonia have already said, the only way to restore the legitimate rights of all Catalans and their freedom is this profound intervention and enforce the law. It is urgent to protect Catalans from good, who see their land besieged by a nationalist and secessionist minority that drives and promotes Catalan to change the sociolinguistic reality of Catalonia. A large number of media and citizens have reported violations of constitutional legality in a wide range of sectors: judges, access to public functions and positions, labelling of shops and, of course, education. This is a good opportunity to remember some important milestones and understand how we have come this far. The first was the Linguistic Normalization Act of 1983, adopted after months of great controversy in which civil society was already opposed to the so-called linguistic immersion, to the implementation of Catalan as a vehicle for teaching and demanded that parents decide whether their child was enrolled in Catalan or Spanish. We have been talking about more than 40 years and yet the topicality and radicalization of this issue is extremely serious today. In those eighties, the Generalitat sent telegrams like this to the teachers telling them that they had to leave Catalonia because they had not passed the Catalan test, while Terra Lliure perpetrated attacks, to see if emulating the terrorists of the Basque Country managed in Catalonia to accelerate the independence process. [[shows a photograph]] Many teachers over the age of 50, who had been teaching in Catalan schools their whole lives, were forced to go into exile: 14,000 teachers requested a transfer to other autonomous institutions. In 1996, he began to govern the PP, thanks to the Covenant of the Majestic, and he could have resorted to the Language Policy Act, the language decree of 1998, but he did not. At the same time, in the Valencian region, the marginalization of Spanish began under the popular government and advanced with the socialist governments until it culminated in the pact of the PSOE with the separatists and pro Catalanists of Compromís. In Baleares, where she also governs her party, minister, the director of the High Inspectorate refuses to intervene in three hundred centers that don't give any subjects in Spanish. We have called for the High Inspectorate to appear both in Parliament and here, in the General Courts, and the result is simply shameful. Between them, no one appears and the result is that Spanish children - Catalans, Galicians, Mallorcans, Valencians, Basques - have not learned Spanish for years and decades, and because there is no time to talk about what happens in Asturias and the Basque Country. But Galicia, where the People's Party governs, is not short either. [[Applauds]] Today no educated person should dare to speak in public in Spanish, a member of the Education Council of the Government of the Xunta of the People's Party has come to say. Already in March 2019, we speak Spanish sent a letter to the president of the People's Party, Mr. Casado, in which between a decalogue of shameful measures he pointed out that Spanish is forbidden by decree in the Galician Education Administration. Bulletins, notes, communications with parents and students, billboards, etc., everything must be in Galician alone. This is to the extent that teachers are threatened with files for using it in written communications with their peers, and this is one in ten. The Spaniards must come out of the illusion, the deception that you, representatives of the People's Party, defend Spain and Spanish because you do it only in a moment, if appropriate, when it is right and where it is right. [[Applauds]] Well, we are going to continue to denounce this deception and this pusillanimity. You, popular, continue to make videos from San Millán della Cogolla denouncing linguistic pressure everywhere but in Galicia, where you carry out the same policies that denouncing elsewhere. What a shame! [[Applauds]] Returning to Catalonia, the Catalan Government is now leading the project of introducing language commissioners into the courtyards of schools by monitoring whether Catalan is spoken or asking children, behind the back of their parents, whether they speak Spanish at school. They are genuine inquisitors, linguistic spies, who act against legality in a totalitarian way so that the separatist machinery does not stop; machinery animated by the government that you represent and that gives ideological resources, as we have seen in the negotiation of budgets. It's over, Minister. With this expression we want to remind all those young people who face for Spain and the Constitution in Catalan universities. To demand compliance with a Supreme Court judgement is to demand compliance with the law. That is his duty, that is his duty and that of the Government he represents: law and order. [[Applauds]] We are not going to allow millions of Spaniards to steal the language that speaks more than five hundred million people in the world, which we sister with all the Hispanic American people and which we should be proud of; a language that we have the duty and the right to know.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u159	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u160	Yeah, one second. With their unworthy politics they add to the hatred for all that Spain represents and renounce the transmission of all that Spain has brought to the world of good and truth. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u162	Thank you very much. Very good morning. The truth is that I did not expect to have a calm debate when the questioner is the VOX political group, but I have seen after his speech that you speak about the Spanish and other issues you are rather not interested in, because you were here, it seems, in a fight with the People's Party to see who gets the most votes through speeches that continue to divide us as a society. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Trias, I see that you move very well in disinformation and defamation. I say this because they have submitted information that they have only read a headline about, because the Socialist Party of Catalonia voted yesterday against the educational model that the political party of VOX wants to impose in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Obviously, we will always vote against it, more than anything because you always defend a model of division and disunity that the Socialist Party will certainly never defend. I recognize that I am very surprised to hear your speeches, not just this morning. I often wonder what world you live in, or rather, what world you would want others to live in. [[Applauds]] Honestly, where do you feed as much hatred as you inject every time you have an intervention here? I am going to focus on questioning, seriously and rigorously, because we are in this House to give serious and rigorous arguments. On the teaching of the Spanish, what we have come to talk about this morning, throughout the national territory has always been guaranteed by all the educational laws throughout history, the last specifically adopted in 2020 in these Courts, where it is said: 'Educational administrations will guarantee the right of pupils to receive teaching in Spanish and in the other co-official languages in their respective territories, in accordance with the Spanish Constitution, the Statutes of Autonomy and the applicable regulations'. It also notes that in all the autonomous communities in which there is a co-official language, the education system will ensure that all pupils achieve full and equivalent proficiency in both languages. Consult the Lomlou, have it at your disposal, go to the thirty-eighth additional disposition and make a good reading, because it gives me the feeling that you will always make biased readings that certainly do not go in the right direction. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as much as they are committed, the teaching of Spanish does not need any special or additional guarantees, the laws protect it and its reality is poignant both inside and outside Spain and fortunately also enjoys extraordinary health. I'll give you an example. Last week a congress on Spanish language education was held in Italy with the participation of the Cervantes Institute and the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. Do you know how many Italians are studying Spanish now? Well, 830 000. Do you know how many French people are studying Spanish? About three million. And we can continue to count to more than twenty-two million people who study Spanish all over the world without being their mother tongue. Of course, no other language has had so much growth in the last decade. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no one with knowledge can attribute anything but strength to the teaching of the Castilian. And in Catalonia Also, of course, as in Galicia, as in the Basque Country, as in the Balearic Islands, as in the Valencian Community or as in Navarre, because the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, is taught and learned - I do not doubt it for a moment - throughout the national territory, including those autonomous communities with more than one language, on the other hand, as the Spanish Constitution says. I will give you another data, ladies and gentlemen, because it is no place here to make any comparison, but if you think PISA reports are good, you must quickly check that the reading comprehension in Spanish, in Spanish, by Catalan students is above the average in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is hard for you to understand this, we live in a country, in a plural, culturally and politically diverse country, with a great wealth of languages, with strong territorial identities, with a high level of self-government; a country, in short, decentralized, solidarity and strong. We feel very proud of this country, very proud, but I see that other political forces are not so much; it will be at best that they do not like that Constitution so much that sometimes they are so engrossed. But if we go back to the case of teaching the language in Catalonia - which I understood was what really worried all of you - and we focus on this decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, we will see that what we are talking about is the percentages of presence in which the Spanish must be a vehicular language, that is, for how many hours different areas or some subjects or others must be explained in one co-official language or the other. This is what this sentence is about, not another matter. And I assure you - I have said this morning - that we, from the government, always accept and comply with all judicial decisions, this and any other, as is our obligation and that of any institution within a rule of law. Moreover, I do not see that it can be otherwise, as for any public administration or for any citizen on foot. But right now any conclusion would be hasty, and I'm going to explain why. Right now what we are talking about is the failure of the Supreme Court to take action against a judgment of the Supreme Court of Catalonia by the Generalitat de Catalunya. By failing to admit, this means that the Supreme shall return the proceedings to the court which handed down the judgment, as provided for in the Law Regulating the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. Therefore, it is the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that has to communicate and communicate to the Generalitat the firmness of the judgment, and it has to comply with it. And as I have also reiterated during this session, I am confident that the Generalitat will act with the responsibility that the matter deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, the sentences must be complied with, even those that pose a complex scenario from a practical point of view, but I will also tell you that, once implemented, it is up to the administrations and the democratic political forces to continue to work to defend a much more inclusive model and that, of course, it has broad social support; a model that leads the students, everyone, also the Catalans, to the maximum academic success in both Castilian and Catalan. Indeed, we have defended this throughout history and throughout the various socialist governments. We have always defended a flag, which is the flag of dialogue against confrontation; a flag that bets on the peaceful coexistence of languages against the division and extremism of one another; a flag based on trust, on the confidence of the self-government of the autonomous communities and, above all, on the confidence in the autonomy of the educational institutions and of the teachers of this country. But in the face of that commitment to coexistence and dialogue, you, the right-wing parties, the right-wing parties of this country have continually sought to judicialize the issues of politics and have tried, through that methodology, to achieve what they did not achieve with the sum of the votes of their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to finish. There is a sentence that needs to be fulfilled, but we also have a political obligation to contribute among all to the language being no longer a weapon of political confrontation, because that does not only disturb the educational system, confuses society, creates division and creates confrontations. Ladies and gentlemen, with the full guarantees of the rights of all students, whether through the application of the law or through the restrictive interpretations of the courts, what we should do is to move from once to considering the possibility of educating our children, our children and our young people in the full domain of two or more languages as a cultural and social wealth, as it is in other countries of a multilingual nature, and not as a continuous war, which is what you continually claim. Let us strive to create conditions of trust in educational systems and educational institutions that make it possible to adapt educational standards more flexibly to the characteristics of the immediate social environment and to the needs of our students. Let us once again take the language out of the partisan debate and move on to give greater visibility, protection and relevance at the national level to the rest of the official languages, as, by the way, our Constitution prescribes. We will all come out winning with better coexistence, with greater cohesion and certainty than also with more success at school. But, look, after listening to you, I have to tell you that you are as sectarian with your tongue as you have been, for example, with your refusal to have a street our deceased writer Almudena Grandes. [[Applauds]] That's what you define, or the delectable tweet you published after the writer's death. To you sectarianism can. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes; it is a sectarianism that makes it impossible for you to accept people we think absolutely different from you. They sow hatred and discord, and the truth is that I regret it to be so, but fortunately, we live in a strong country and in a country of solidarity where hope and joy always open up in the face of the fear and despair that you want to implement. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u164	Madam Minister, you have not really heard the intervention, as is usual practice among you, because you have asked us what world we live in. We live in the real world; you live in a parallel world and you do not know what you are fighting and what Catalans are suffering in Catalonia. [[applause]] From a walk through the Raval, from a walk through Catalan schools where you can't learn Spanish. Look, there is no more serious and rigorous parliamentary group than we, Minister. [[Rumors]] We know the Celaá Law; but it is the Celaá Law, it is the Supreme Court's judgment, it is the Catalans and the government of Pere Aragonès that are the same. You are in contempt, you have said it publicly, and you would have to answer it publicly at least. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you're gonna make Celaá good. We already knew that you were going to talk about consensus, peaceful coexistence and linguistic wealth, and all that we subscribe to, but it is that you are artists - no matter what we are talking about - in reverse speech. We stand by those who are being attacked in Catalonia, who are the real victims of nationalism and separatism, and tell us that we are the ones who hate. [[applause]] They have an unparalleled mastery in reversing the discourse, but they no longer deceive the Spaniards, the Catalans or the Galicians, all of them Spaniards. We want a Chilean, an Argentine, an Andalusian or an Asturian who lives in Catalonia, when he goes to visit his grandparents at Christmas and congratulates them on Christmas he can do it in Spanish, Spanish, in the language that he sisters us with all the inhabitants of Hispano America. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, you cannot talk about conditions of trust and you cannot accuse us of judicializing our policy. But don't you know it's the last resource we have? It is the last resort of Catalans. I have started my intervention by telling you - and there would be for hours here - what families are suffering in Catalonia, in Balearic Islands, in Valencia, in Galicia and in all the autonomous communities where there is a co-official language. They also have the right to have Spanish as their own language; they have two own languages: the Spanish language and the co-official language. Madam Minister, to say that the model has worked... It's data. Look at the data: it didn't work, it didn't work. In Baleares there are three hundred schools where Spanish is not taught, the sentences have not been fulfilled for years, and in the 1980s civil society was mobilizing in the street. We won't know what to do anymore. And they're in contempt, the spokesman Vehi said this morning. He said they're gonna blow the law. They're saying it publicly, they're saying it at the headquarters of national sovereignty and you let them do it, because your strategy is: come, we give you space and then let's back up a little bit so that it looks like we're good. Well, no, Minister, this is over. It's over! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u165	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Trias, see if we do not know the reality in Catalonia, that in the last elections, if there was a widely voted party and in which the citizens of Catalonia trusted their hopes and illusions, it was the Socialist Party of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] The truth is that, listening to it, I have to express my concern to you, because that ignorance so deliberate that you have of the reality of Catalonia I do not know if it is a spontaneous matter or really that it is so real, that you have an absolute ignorance of reality at this time in Catalonia. Moreover, I would dare say: would you be able to find a child who is currently studying in Catalonia or Balearic Islands or Navarre or Galicia that once he has completed compulsory education he will not be able to defend himself with the same skills in Spanish as in any other co-official language? Please! Please! [[Rumors.-Applause.-Laseñora Trias Gil makes affirmative gestures.-Mr Sánchez del Real points out the seats below his.-Several honourable Members make gestures by gathering and separating their fingers indicating'many']] Fortunately, the system of linguistic immersion has been in this country - specifically in Catalonia - for more than four decades. I have already said this morning that it is certainly a model that could be improved, but the results, objectively, are positive, because they have allowed us young people in this country, when they finish their education, to be able to defend themselves with the same fluidity and competition in both Castilian and Catalan. But I am not just saying this, Your Honor, that you, who so much like to draw up educational reports in order to disregard the efforts made by the educational system, when the data that appear do not interest you, obviate them. I have told you before: the PISA Report itself talks about Catalan students and says that when they finish they know better the expression and reading in Spanish than the average of Spain. That's the reality, Mrs. Trias. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes; if you have not had the opportunity to read it, I will send you the PISA Report, I will send it to you. [[Applauds]] It is true that when I hear you - I was telling you before - it amazes me, but it did not give me any illusion, because at least you, unlike others, are transparent. Yes, yes, you want to charge yourself with the state of autonomy; you carry it on your electoral agenda and, obviously - we have seen it once again - you work every day to achieve it. Despite your speeches, I have to tell you that your voters give me all the respect of the world, all the respect of the world, yes, yes, and I understand that when they voted for you they did it thinking that you would be the best defenders of this country. [[rumors]] What happens is that you have promised a country that does not exist; perhaps it existed, perhaps, in the propaganda of the Franco dictatorship, but not today, no longer today, no longer. [[applause]] You come here with absolutely ferocious speeches, because you believe that with those speeches you get votes, but - I told the deputy of the People's Party this morning - you don't have a project for Catalonia, you have a project against Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Break the unit. You are the ones who break unity when you deny plurality, when you confront citizens, when you weaken our cohesion and when you question our welfare state. You are the greatest danger to the unity of the Spanish nation, yes, yes, you are the greatest danger, which can never be anything but the unity and democratic coexistence of all Spaniards. [[Several Members: Hala!]] We, from the Government of Spain, believe that concretely at this moment, when society is facing a very complex moment, it is when we need to take up once again dialogue, consensus and coexistence; it is the time to recover bridges, it is the time to reach out, it is the time for dialogue and it is the time for respect, prudence in language and proposals, because only in this way do we identify what unites us. There is a very important difference between you and us. We have always been and will be in favour of coexistence, for the rights of all, and this Government, ladies and gentlemen, will always defend - I insist, always - democracy from the values of the agreement that has made this country great, despite all of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-01-CD211201.u167	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The meeting was suspended. It was 12 and 20 minutes in the morning.
