ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue the plenary meeting. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 19/2021, of 5 October, of urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting to this House, for its validation, Royal Decree-Law 19/2021 of 5 October, urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, following its adoption in the Council of Ministers on 5 October. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, in her presentation of the Next Generation funds to the European Parliament a little over a year ago said that the launch of these funds, following the suffering brought to us by the VOCID-19 pandemic, wanted to represent a new Bauhaus for Europe, thus marking the beginning of a new way of living together more inclusive, more sustainable and even more beautiful. The President of the Commission pointed out when she spoke of the objectives of these funds, which I do know, that they should not be limited to promoting the reactivation of an economy seriously affected by the pandemic, but rather to seeking that this reactivation will drive a more socially and environmentally sustainable Europe through the development of the circular economy and innovation. Moreover, Von der Leyen pointed out that these funds aim to become a new cultural project for Europe. A new cultural project - let me point out - conceived in the same way as the Bauhaus in Germany of the Republic of Weimar, that is, that it did not limit itself to creating new forms of building construction or artistic designs, but promoted proposals on how to improve the daily life of citizens in a changing society; a society in which, as in our time, new opportunities appeared, but in which new risks and uncertainties also arose. Indeed, housing and building have been at the heart of the organization and evolution of societies since humans became citizens with the appearance of the first cities at the dawn of history. Thus, already in our time the consideration of the right to decent housing and a sustainable urban environment has been fundamental milestones in shaping human and social rights, as already reflected in our Constitution and as proclaimed in the sustainable development goals adopted by the United Nations. In our field, the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience envisages the deployment of the Spanish urban agenda as one of the ten fundamental lever policies and within its investment chapter it provides for the Programme for the rehabilitation of housing and urban regeneration, with a total investment of 6820 million euros, which will therefore become the second with the largest allocation of the twenty components envisaged. But to achieve these desired objectives, we know that it is not enough with an important economic endowment. We know that investments in inefficient systems only lead to dissipation of resources and frustration of the expectations created. It is therefore essential to carry out a careful diagnosis of the situation in advance, as well as to identify and remove bottlenecks that have so far prevented or limited the development of the various plans and programmes for the rehabilitation of buildings. That desire to remove existing obstacles is the fundamental objective of the Royal Decree-Law, which is now subject to parliamentary validation. The diagnosis is known. According to data from the last population and housing census of the National Institute of Statistics, more than half of the residential buildings in Spain were built prior to the adoption of the first regulation of thermal installations of the buildings in 1980. This affects about 5.5 million residential buildings and about 10 million main dwellings. In the same vein, the data we have on the energy efficiency certificate for buildings indicate that more than 80% of buildings have very low ratings for both emissions and energy consumption. All this gives us a clear idea of the long way to go in energy efficiency and saving in the area of building, and we must remember that energy efficiency in building is seen in all studies as a crucial element in achieving the challenge of the European Union to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. And if the achievement of energy efficiency appears to be the main objective of building rehabilitation, we cannot forget other equally imperative issues in this area, such as those relating to accessibility. As an example, 35.1 % of the apartments for sale in Spain had no elevator in 2020 and the removal of architectural barriers remains an outstanding subject in many neighborhoods in Spanish cities. No less important is the regeneration of degraded urban environments and the facilitation of the development of lanes and circuits for bicycles and other healthy and non-polluting means of transport, another vector in which we want to advance in this impulse of the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Also, support for the progressive digitization of buildings and urban environments. Thus, buildings and cities are becoming world-wide spearheads in the race for the implementation of 5G networks and for the development of artificial intelligence models applied to improve the quality of life of citizens; the rehabilitation of homes, buildings and neighbourhoods is now in the hands of innovation. There is therefore a broad international consensus on the relevance of building and city rehabilitation policies to improve the quality of life of citizens, to meet energy saving objectives and to foster a spiral of innovation in information and communication technologies. But we must and can ask ourselves the reasons why rehabilitation has so far had a very limited journey in Spain despite the efforts and incentives that have been launched from successive governments and from different public administrations. Thus, it has been estimated that the average rate of effective rehabilitation of our housing stock is between eight and ten times below the average of this activity in the countries of our environment. The causes of this delay include what we could call legal bottlenecks, which - as I said earlier - have been strangling the development of rehabilitation activities in recent years. The removal of some of these bottlenecks from existing legislation is precisely the purpose of this Royal Decree-Law. We are aware that there are other limiting factors for the development of rehabilitation activities, which are also within the scope of action of the autonomous communities and municipalities. Therefore, from here I would like to call on all administrations to take the necessary measures and actions from their respective powers to ensure that the funds allocated in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to residential rehabilitation programmes finally achieve the desired objectives. As for the actual decree-law, and to get into the content, I want to say that it is structured into a single title, with four articles, an additional provision and three final provisions. I now go on to describe their content in more detail. Among the legal regulations that are affected by this Royal Decree-Law, the most relevant is that relating to the applicable taxation, both through the introduction of certain incentives to encourage investments in this area and through the removal of certain forecasts that hinder them. All this without, of course, creating new taxes or altering the essential configuration of existing ones, and promulgated because of the urgent need for the provisions already adopted, such as Royal Decree 853/2021 of 5 October, so that these programmes can be implemented as soon as possible. To this end, we initially allocated EUR 450 million. Thus, as far as incentives are concerned, the Royal Decree-Law establishes deductions in the full state share of the IRPF for works for the improvement of the energy efficiency of housing, deductions that will be increased according to the energy savings that is credited. With regard to the removal of forecasts which have impeded these investments, it is established that aid which is received pursuant to the above-mentioned Royal Decree or other previous Decree, which also provides for the granting of public aid for this purpose, will not be included in the tax base of this tax. In particular, three deductions are introduced. The first, 20% deduction for actions that reduce the demand for heating and cooling in regular housing by 7%. The second, 40% deduction for actions that reduce the consumption of non-renewable primary energy by 30% or improve the energy rating by reaching letters A or B in normal housing. And the third is the 60% deduction for actions that reduce non-renewable primary energy consumption by 30% or improve the rating, reaching letters A or B in residential buildings. These bonuses reach a maximum of 5000, 7500 and 15000 euros per dwelling respectively. It also provides for non-integration into the tax base of the aid received, pursuant to Royal Decree-Law 920/2014, intended to compensate for the costs of receiving or accessing television audiovisual communication services in buildings affected by the release of the digital dividend. In addition to tax incentives, the Royal Decree-Law comes to amend two other basic laws, eliminating some rigidities that have been shown to be a clear limitation for the execution of rehabilitation actions in housing and buildings. In the first place, the Law on Horizontal Property, Law 49/1960, is amended to facilitate the adoption of the necessary agreements for the performance of actions or works that contribute to the improvement of the energy efficiency of the building, agreements that from now on will only require the favorable vote of the majority of the owners. The same majority also becomes the one required for the application for aid, grants or loans for the construction of works for this purpose. Secondly, the Consolidated Text of the Soil and Urban Rehabilitation Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 7/2015 of 30 October 2015, is amended in order to strengthen certain powers of the owner communities, providing them with full legal capacity for credit operations in this area, thus removing one of the elements that had made it difficult to obtain bank credits for the performance of these actions by the owner communities. Finally, a line of guarantees is created for the partial State coverage of the financing of loans for this type of works. This line of guarantees will provide coverage so that credit institutions can offer loan financing with a repayment period of up to 15 years. This line of endorsements may be accessed by owners or communities of owners who will undertake rehabilitation works to improve the energy efficiency of their homes or buildings. Under this new ICO line, guarantees of up to EUR 11 billion will be granted to promote, as I said, access to the financing necessary for the development of these actions. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. In sum, the Royal Decree-Law establishes fiscal incentives for taxpayers who carry out rehabilitation works for the energy improvement of their homes, facilitates the adoption of agreements and the capacity to apply for aid and loans by the communities of owners, and also establishes a specific line of guarantees to facilitate the granting of final loans by credit institutions. All these measures will pave the way for the effective deployment of the aid provided for in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan for the rehabilitation of housing, buildings and neighbourhoods, a deployment that will not only have a direct impact on the comfort and quality of life of the citizens concerned and on the corresponding energy savings, but will also generate a series of effects that are of the greatest importance in the coming years. Thus, building rehabilitation is called upon to be one of the main sources of employment of different qualifications. On the other hand, the priority given to energy saving and innovation will promote the development of an ecosystem of startups focused on the development and application to buildings and cities of renewable energy sources as well as artificial intelligence applications. In another order of things, the advance towards buildings, neighborhoods and cities with a zero carbon footprint will support the image of Spanish tourist destinations as sustainable destinations, helping to relaunch them after the pandemic. Anyway, we're at the beginning of a promising path. The rehabilitation and improvement of energy efficiency in our homes and cities will be a decisive factor in the implementation in the coming years of this new culture, of that new way of living that, as the President of the European Commission said, we want it to be more inclusive, more sustainable and even more beautiful. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, after setting out the situation and ratifying the needs and urgency required by the Constitution, he asked the House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u3	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of this royal decree because we see it very interesting and necessary for the challenge of energy efficiency; however, we will also support its processing as a bill because we want to try to incorporate some issues such as those I am going to raise. The architectural deterioration and lack of energy efficiency of the housing stock in the depopulated provinces are well above the country's average, both in small cities and in rural areas; on the contrary, the rehabilitation of housing in its real estate parks is well below the country's average. As a result, a genuine socio-territorial gap in the quality and comfort of housing and its energy efficiency can be identified between the small municipalities - according to the INE, those with less than 2000 inhabitants - and the cities of the most dynamic urban areas of the provinces, a socio-territorial gap that needs to be closed by encouraging especially in these areas the rehabilitation, improvement of energy efficiency and accessibility for the elderly. So, let's make two observations, among the many we could make. On the one hand, if the objective is to rehabilitate and improve the energy efficiency of the real estate park, it does not seem appropriate that the tax relief that these investments contemplates only reach the categories of habitual housing or rent. We believe that for this objective it is essential to improve the energy efficiency of the houses that we could call frequent occupation, that is, housing that is not usual, but that in many non-tourist municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants are the majority. This royal decree should support these owners, tenants or users with the same tax advantages. This is an issue that we have never addressed in the census, but the population census does not adequately address the real uses of housing in rural areas, especially this one referring to the frequent occupation, which is not habitual housing and, nevertheless, is the modality that has been rehabilitating and is maintaining much of the real estate park of small municipalities. Secondly, in order to combat the depopulation of this territorial imbalance we ask that a more ambitious specific programme be implemented, with greater funds and guarantees, that contemplates rehabilitation, but also the creation of new housing and a housing park for rent...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u5	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u6	... which, on the other hand, should be accompanied by an urban regeneration programme, curiously aimed also at the rural urban area, so as to make life more attractive in these small municipalities, also by the spatial quality of their public space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u7	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. The issue of housing has been a constant one in the debates held in this House and the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience is also part of the political concern for a topic crucial to our society, to which the Spanish Constitution also devotes specific attention. The text adopted by the Council of Ministers has positive aspects in that it opens up a range of opportunities for the economic sectors and professional colleges involved in the transformation and improvement of the real estate park. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sánchez Jiménez spoke in her speech about energy efficiency. However, the measures proposed by the Executive are scarring when compared to the extraordinary budgetary effort made by European countries similar to Spain, which have multiplied their investment capacity several times and to attract labour and promote employment, also reduce the costs of labour and tax burdens for women builders. Proof of the inadequacy of the measures contained in this rule is that they are intended to develop in five years, when the real estate park ages at an annual rate of close to 2%, while the building rehabilitation affects only 0.12% of it, thus wasting a sectoral and employment potential, which also goes to the detriment of the economy of the Spanish families, who have historically deposited their saving capacity in the housing. It is also necessary to point out the danger of interventionism threatened in the next housing bill, which has already aroused suspicion and fear of legal insecurity and doubts for large investors. I shall abstain from the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u9	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u10	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14 September in this plenary, in a motion discussed, I had the opportunity to urge the Government to make a decree regulating the rehabilitation and social housing aid included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. It must be said that the Government did its job and last 5 October, in the same Council of Ministers in which it passed this decree-law that we validate today - because I take it that we are going to validate it - it adopted the decree regulating programmes other than these two subjects, which may be worse or better, but it must be acknowledged that the Government - the new team - has done its job. Now, the autonomous communities are the ones that have the ball on their roof and the truth is that they have to act diligently, because, as I said also - and I remember very well from my time as counselor - it takes months to make the development decrees, and Cantabria was of the communities that first made them. In spite of everything, it's been a long time. I believe that you should close the current plan so that it can be in force on 1 January and, moreover, that the aid that the Autonomous Communities themselves, the State and those coming from Europe can do is compatible and coordinated. Finally, I am not tired of repeating that construction is the main engine of the economy; it is the best multiplier of investment and employment. There are thousands of small entrepreneurs and self-employed mainly in our productive fabric. This is what we know best in Spain and, paradoxically, there is currently no skilled workforce because it has not been renewed in these years and we are having to help - and it does not - immigration. I believe that these measures that are coming will serve to reverse this trend and, in addition, to increase the salaries of workers, because I believe that this is the best possible incentive for our young people to want to join this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u12	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the explanatory statement of this royal decree-law says: it aims to take measures to boost the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, with the intention of pursuing the renovation of the real estate park, which is considered fundamental to achieve a goal, climate neutrality by 2050. It should also be noted that the determining factor in the existence of this Royal Decree-Law is to concentrate a high volume of resources for this task and within the framework of a new recovery instrument, which is the Next Generation of the European Union, regulated in Royal Decree-Law 36/2020. To this end, the Royal Decree-Law promotes different measures to exponentially increase the rehabilitation activity in order to multiply by ten in the current decade the current number of compliance with the objectives envisaged in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, therefore having to increase the rate of rehabilitation until the figure of three hundred thousand housing rehabilitations per year, which seems to be a rather ambitious objective. To that end, what you are doing is proposing different legal measures to which the Minister has already referred in her summary, but which I will comment on in order to clarify some issues. The first is that it amends the Income Tax Act by introducing temporary deductions for amounts invested in rehabilitation works that contribute to the improvement of the energy efficiency of these homes. There is nothing to be said about this, as I agree with it. However, it should be pointed out that, in this context and in this matter, the Basque outlaws and the Foral Community of Navarre are competent; therefore, some degree of implementation will have to be achieved in the form of agreement and, where appropriate, taking into account both Law 12/2002 on Economic Concert and Law 28/1990 of the Navarra Economic Convention. It also envisages a second more than interesting measure, which is the amendment of the Horizontal Property Act, to facilitate decision-making by the communities of owners to promote reforms and improvements by establishing a simple majority regime for the execution of rehabilitation works that contribute to the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings or the implementation of renewable energy sources and to request aid or financing for these works. Nothing to say about that, as I agree. A small warning should be given on this issue, and it was not always the case that such decisions were taken by those majorities that some of the occupants of those communities were no longer placed in difficult situations. It would be appropriate to reconcile the ease with which neighbouring communities would be placed to make these decisions with the help of those neighbours who, however, would not be able to meet those obligations. The third is an amendment to the Land Law, in order to strengthen the powers of the communities of owners and to be able to assume responsibilities as well, with which we agree. And the fourth is possibly the most timely and successful decision, which is to establish a line of endorsements for the partial State coverage of the financing of rehabilitation works that contribute to the improvement of energy efficiency. And why? Because it is not only not uncommon, but quite the contrary that many owner communities or, rather, many community-based owners may make decisions not to deal with these works as a result of not being able to apply together for these credits, in solidarity, because so far credit institutions did not grant such credits if there was no one to endorse it and no one to endorse a community of owners. This decision, therefore, introduces a wedge into that situation and we believe that it is correct. Moreover, the royal decree-law continues to justify in some way the relevance of its urgency from the point of view of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution mentioning three different reasons, of which, with all due respect, we believe that only the third - enough with one of them -, regarding the urgency of implementing this aid of the Next Generation, in some way justifies the possibility of understanding how urgent this decision is. Finally, I just want to mention another issue that is also recurrent, and it is that of competition titles. As we have seen, there are a number of the subjects referred to, and it certainly seems logical that the State can do so by referring to the titles of general finance, civil law or economic activity planning referred to in Article 14(8) and 13(a) of the Constitution, or even in terms of guarantees, a little forced, 149.1.25(a), in terms of mining and energy, curiously. But it turns out that others, as always, seem excessive to us, such as those relating to paragraphs 18a, 23a and 149.1.1a, which are the basis of the common legal regime and administrative procedure, because in all of them we return to the same practice as always, in competitive terms of a horizontal nature that are used to justify the intervention of the State in specific titles for which the autonomous communities are already competent. Minister, Government in general, stop using this unacceptable centralizing routine and respect the competences of the autonomous communities in what they are still allowing them to act on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings to the validation by this plenary the Royal Decree-Law 19/2021, approved by the Council of Ministers on 5 October and which aims at a number of legal amendments in an urgent way, as its title says, to boost the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. I have already announced to you that the vote of my group, Citizens, will be affirmative, but it is true that that affirmative vote does not mean that the content of the decree convinces us entirely. We consider it to be an appropriate regulation, but it is neither all that is nor all that is. In fact, we will also vote yes to the processing of this decree as a bill for urgent procedure, because we understand that from my group we can make improvements to extend that regulation. First of all, let me tell you that we already find it strange at the outset that the matter regulated by this decree is done precisely by means of the formula of a decree. We think so, because the text is practically a copy, word for word, of the corresponding milestone in the annex to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan; a document that was approved and forwarded in the spring, in April, to the European Commission and which already reflected the extraordinary and urgent need for a measure that has ended up being tested, as I said, this October, six months later. It seems logical that, with this regulation of extraordinary and urgent need, we would have seen the same light, for example, in June. It is indeed a further demonstration of the improper and inappropriate use that we believe this Government is making of the royal decree-law, something we have denounced to the point of satiety. In any case, beyond the above, it seems to us that the regulation to be validated today is in the right line. There are issues such as amending the consolidated text of the Soil and Urban Rehabilitation Act to allow communities of owners to operate in the market for building rehabilitation operations, which we have been claiming for a long time from Citizens; as we have also been insisting on the need for proper fiscal and regulatory incentives to promote housing rehabilitation. In this regard, we believe that it could have been somewhat more ambitious and we do miss instruments to complement the investment of those who lack the capital needed to undertake rehabilitation work. It gives us the impression of being in a regulation rather than a minimum to cover the dossier before the Commission, rather than being an integral rule that drives the renewal of the entire building stock in Spain. This decree, on the other hand, addresses only the third of the lines of action contained in the component of the Rehabilitation Programme for the Economic and Social Recovery of Residential Environments, which refers to the creation of an environment favourable to the activity. We believe that tax incentives and credit are very good, but they are not enough in many cases, especially in those economically more unfavourable environments that cannot be allowed initial disbursements of this type of investment and that, in addition, they are often the ones most in need of improving the energy efficiency of their homes. For these groups to have a poorly isolated house or an outdated heating system can make a difference between arriving at or not arriving at the end of the month, especially with the tension in the energy prices that we are seeing that the government is not able to control. The other two lines with the granting of direct subsidies to the renovation of buildings have been launched with Royal Decree 853/2021, approved precisely on the same day as the decree-law that is to be validated, and it is surprising that there is no specific provision for the renovation of dwellings of low-income or very low-income households, which are the most likely to need it, especially if it is taken into account that the norm does have special consideration for renovations in the field of social rental. We have already expressed our conviction that European funds are an unparalleled opportunity to boost the housing rehabilitation sector, making our real estate park more environmentally friendly, reducing its emissions and energy consumption, making it more accessible to people with reduced mobility and older people or with children, better isolated from outside noise or better structural qualities. But for that we must substantially reduce emissions from our residential sector. Faced with this, it turns out that we have a building stock where 97% of existing buildings are inefficient and need to be updated to standards approved for energy and environmental objectives of the European Union. This requires decisive and effective measures to speed up and simplify the process of requesting, granting and transferring direct rehabilitation aid. And we are concerned that public administrations will be left with the possibility of launching the single windows regulated in this Decree 853/2021, because of the risk that the common purpose of the entire building park will not materialize successfully equally throughout Spain. Finally, we believe that we should not miss the opportunity to give a boost to renewable energies in this area, by launching a national solar development plan for public and private buildings in collaboration with autonomous communities and local corporations, with the aim of promoting and facilitating the installation of photovoltaic plates on all surfaces that allow and where they are efficient. In conclusion, we understand that it is appropriate to return - and we will do so - with initiatives rejected earlier - for example, when the Climate Change Act is being processed - that we believe are interesting and very beneficial, such as the creation of energy efficiency mortgages. Without prejudice to that, our vote will be affirmative, but we expect more from this Government in its housing rehabilitation policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u15	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this royal decree-law seeks to promote the rehabilitation of housing by introducing the possibility of deductions in the IRPF from the investment made to achieve greater energy efficiency, either by reducing the demand for heating and cooling or by opting for renewable energies. The objective is shared, so we will vote in favour, although we are concerned about some aspects. Firstly, a general consideration that we have already heard here on whether it was really necessary to use the mechanism of the royal decree-law in this matter, with obvious abuse by the Government of the appeal to the justification of extraordinary and urgent need. The second relates to the extension of the measure in time, as it provides that satisfied amounts can be deducted since the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law - i.e. on 6 October - however, it is not taken into account the fiscal year of the IRPF which refers to the entire year 2021. Thus, inequalities that do not seem justified between those who did these works at the beginning of the year and those who do so at the end of the year can be created, when it seems to us that the objective should be to promote rehabilitation and energy efficiency. And thirdly, we want to stress that access to deduction will only be effective for those who can make the previous disbursement for what they qualify for, it is true, credit guarantees. That is why we believe that the funds for rehabilitation aid must be increased...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u17	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u18	... so that the population with the greatest difficulty in having these funds, or even meeting the criteria of the guarantees, can also do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u19	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u20	Thank you, President. Minister, in our group we will vote in favour of the decree and, at the same time, we will work to improve it in its processing. We agree that we are starting from an ageing and poorly conserved housing stock and that annual rehabilitation data are bad because, while the countries in our environment were rehabilitating, there was a lot of speculation in our country, and that has delayed the rehabilitation processes. However, we are going to raise two or three issues that we think are very important in the process. Firstly - and it has been said here - territorial inequality; but not only in terms of the different territories, but also of the unequal territorial environmental impact; I am talking about the heat islands and, together with this, I am talking about the neighborhoods or spaces with greater social vulnerability or low incomes, which must be contemplated by joining the projects of the two decrees. We think that the bottlenecks - and neither in this decree nor in the previous one, can be spoken of - can be produced in the municipalities and to what must be tended is, in fact, the decentralization of the autonomous communities to them, which have a very important part of responsibility. Therefore, the second decentralization processes to the municipalities have not occurred on most occasions, and this will be crucial for the success of rehabilitation plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u21	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr de Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u22	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law and its processing as well. We will vote in favour because the four measures that you propose are shared by us: tax incentives - which I will talk about later on - the amendment of the Land Law, the amendment of the Horizontal Property Law, and the line of endorsements. They are necessary to promote rehabilitation, but you are fully aware that they are not enough and are also working on other measures, which will have our support. In any case, beyond the fact that these measures can be improved and we are going to try to improve them, I would like to highlight an asymmetric situation, which is not so much for you, Madam Minister, as for the whole of your Government and, in particular, for the Minister of Finance. Today they bring us tax incentives; they create new deductions to the IRPF. Over the last few months or years, we have seen that the government, sometimes relying on reports from the AIReF - which asks ex post, but never ex ante - eliminates some tax incentives, be it deductions or reductions from the tax base, as it has passed with pension plans, on the argument that this benefits the deciles means or high incomes, and that some tax incentives that do not benefit the first deciles of income are meaningless and not optimal. I would also like you to make an analysis of what income deciles these tax incentives are going to benefit from, because I assure you that it is not going to be the first tranches of income that, in many cases, are not even owners, because they do not have the capacity to own. The argument must therefore be the same; the grounds for creating a tax incentive or eliminating the tax incentive should be the same. You've been making patches in the tax field for a long time. The minister says there will be a comprehensive reform, but as long as there is no comprehensive reform, you are not consistent with the maintenance of these tax benefits. It makes no sense that deductions from pension schemes, which in many cases affect self-employed people, are once again being abolished in the State General Budgets, and now put this new tax incentive; not to mention the deduction for the purchase of housing, which would also be another matter. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u23	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u24	Good morning, good morning, Minister. A preliminary question. The Catalan Members today have a reason for joy by welcoming the imminent publication of the new decree of renewables of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the first step in the road map of the energy transition in Catalonia, with the known target of 50% renewables to 2030 and neutrality by 2050. Hello and so on. [[Applauds]] Boosting energy efficiency is a basic pillar in order to achieve the decarbonisation targets by 2030, although no one escapes that there is much but much road to go on in this area. The built park is responsible for more than a third of CO2 emissions and in the Spanish state it does not look good. By way of example and according to the study of the Renewables Foundation, 97 % of the buildings built do not meet the energy efficiency requirements in force and more than 70 % of the buildings have lower certification than the C rating. These are data which do not exactly match those given by the Minister, but they are also indicators of extreme seriousness. In short, we can already put the batteries and even more in the current context, with an unsustainable increase in electricity prices. We said this in last Thursday's debate when we were pleased to devote almost a monograph to the energy field. One of the solutions to contain the electricity price crisis is precisely to bet on improving energy efficiency because the greenest and most economical energy is precisely the energy that is not consumed. Moreover, it is clear - and they will allow me to say that it is a hit by the Republican Left of Catalonia - that betting on more renewables is to do it in self-consumption and on the ground, because, as a good friend said, every delay in processing it is a day more light a little more expensive. Returning to the text, this royal decree is a first step in promoting measures that encourage building rehabilitation. I must say that he knows us little by little and that is why our amending spirit will want him to be treated as a bill. We believe that, again and there are already too many missed occasions, you let go of an opportunity to move faster towards the goals set. No one should escape that boosting energy rehabilitation is a magnificent opportunity to lower the bill for light, yes, but also to create thousands of skilled jobs. If we have it so clear, we should bet on it. In detail, it includes various tax incentives as deductions from the IRPF for quantities satisfied in works that aim to improve energy efficiency, stipulating three categories according to the energy improvement to be achieved. This can be a good step to help many homeowner communities make the decision to approve energy rehabilitation works. You also amend the Law on Horizontal Property to accommodate such a logical claim as that decisions should cease to be taken unanimously; a proposal that, by the way, was included in a non-legislative proposal that Esquerra brought to the Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge Commission a few weeks ago and that his group did not support. We'll take it as a review of your group. It also seems to us - and forgive me for the frankness - that you were dealing with the formula used to account for the majority, imposing a limitation of nine months hardly justified. We amend this. What we are going to say, we see much clearer the current reform of Catalan legislation, namely that of the book of the Civil Code, which you could take as an example. They have been unable or unwilling to go further, so we will ask you to use this royal decree-law as a bill. We believe that it would be very positive to introduce measures as already established in Italy with the known ecobonds, tax credits for the amount of renewal investment that can be transferred to investments or the EuroPACE model of co-participatory development of the rehabilitation process. Although the measures cannot remain there, it is essential, it is our obligation to ensure that they reach everyone and you, Minister, must not be reminded, it is essential to empower local entities, on this as on any issue of environmental impact, because the ecological transition, the energy transition will be local or will not be. [[Applauds]] We know that rehabilitation is a good solution to tackle energy poverty and to ensure decent housing. Such measures exclude the most vulnerable. There are many barriers to access, such as financing, ownership, recognition and a long time, which the Government should not ignore if it really believes in a just energy transition that leaves no one behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u25	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u26	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A preliminary question. Today we are talking about housing and I would like to remind all the Canary brothers that, possibly, at this time, they are running out of housing. [[Applauds]] Minister, as science has warned us so many times, climate change is already a reality that is showing its effects. They have already predicted that in the Mediterranean area it is where global warming is accelerating the most; a reality that even the most skeptical can no longer deny, although some strive to do so. The recent IPCC report adds to a theoretical and practical evidence that makes it impossible to look at another direction. We need to act now, 2022 must be the year of the paradigm shift. This royal decree that we are dealing with today shows that this government of progressive coalition has understood it; it has understood that the reality that we live requires action and not only theoretical. This coalition government knows very well that ecology cannot be limited to slogans or pins in the flaps; the ecology that we are dealing with goes from real proposals. This complicated environment also adds to a complicated economic situation, the economic crisis resulting from the global pandemic that has devastated all countries. Despite this, European funds and restructuring plans allow us to be optimistic, as they open up a window of opportunity that will help us to continue to recover our economy, and at the same time to rebuild the future country we want, which is nothing more than the country that demands citizenship. Our young people have demanded it on the streets. A country in which we live on loan is no property, and our obligation is to take care of it for generations to come. A country that must move towards a green and sustainable economy, always under the support of social justice. European funds will be of no use if we leave them at the mercy of big companies and multinationals. These funds must be subject to the general interest, to the benefit of all, and this royal decree goes in that line, posing the view on the complex reality of our housing park, a housing park significantly aged in relation to other countries in our environment. As the minister explained, half of our residential buildings are pre-1980, therefore built without any regulation of the thermal conditions of the buildings. This is why the adaptation of these buildings is essential, especially with regard to energy efficiency, which will also help to curb the climate crisis and contribute to the necessary energy transition of our country. It is time to launch a strategic housing rehabilitation plan to adapt to new times and make them more efficient and sustainable. From United We can support this decree for various reasons. Because it is a step towards reducing the consequences of climate change. Because it promotes the energy savings of families, not only in the short term, but also in the long term. Because in addition to helping to reduce the family energy cost, it helps families to cope with rehabilitation by taking on part of this cost. Because it helps to boost a sector that we need to grow in our country, that linked to renewable energy, that will make our infrastructure and housing more sustainable, a sector that must be a driving force for change, and in turn key to the diversification of our economy, and always under the gaze of social justice. Because it will help revitalize many small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector, those enterprises that were abandoned by Mr Aznar's urban ball; a ball that enriched a few while small and medium-sized enterprises were those that worked with tiny profit margins. Without forgetting that this campaign to rejuvenate our housing park will also generate a significant amount of employment. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, in a finite territory, on a finite planet, our philosophy must be the improvement and reform of housing. With decrees like the one presented today, we are showing that there are other ways of doing politics, that the path we follow is radically different from that followed by the People's Party with the policies of austereicide in the 2008 scam crisis, which saved the banking sector at the cost of sinking families, destroying economic fabric and leaving thousands of workers on the street. On the contrary, with these measures we are protecting and helping families, betting on small and medium-sized enterprises and creating jobs, as well as combating climate change. We are following the process of putting all sectors at the service of citizenship and a just energy transition, generating wealth for all, for all, for a country that looks to the future with total social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u28	Come on, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, Minister. Hi, my name is Angel, I'm seventy-four years old and I'm retired. I live with my wife in Segovia, in a house we bought 40 years ago. I receive a pension of only eight hundred and ninety euros a month, thanks to my forty years as autonomous of a retail trade. I lost all my savings in the Philatelic Forum pyramidal scam. My pension, the only income I get, doesn't give me almost to arrive at the end of the month and, now, with the new rise of light, with the IBI, the disaster of next year and the rise of the quota of the community of owners, it will be impossible for me to meet all the expenses. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, this is the real case of many Spaniards. With this royal decree, who are they supposed to represent? Who do you defend? They are presented together with their partners as defenders of the so-called social shield for the most vulnerable and yet their policies generate more poverty and more misery. The only shield you're defending is Sanchez's and his obsession with staying in the mattress of La Moncloa. [[Applauds]] One thing: according to the European platform of social entities working and fighting poverty and social exclusion in the European Union, in Spain some 10 million people, the entire population of Portugal, are at risk of poverty. That is, 6.3% more than in 2008. This is not a casual fact, it is an objective fact: every time you rule unemployment goes off and poverty increases. Therefore, with this royal decree that you bring us here today, you turn away from the real problems of the Spaniards. Now that winter is approaching and consumptions have been fired, the Spaniards will have to choose between heating up or spending money on food. And now they want to invest in rehabilitating their homes. Moreover, with this royal decree there are two amendments to the Law on Horizontal Property, including the approval by a simple majority of works that contribute to the improvement of energy efficiency. Now, Minister, you will have to talk to Angel and tell him that you will have to decide between paying for the light, buying the bread or paying for the rehabilitation works. [[Applauds]] This royal decree also offers the possibility to apply three tax deductions in rehabilitation for works, with the limit of 5000, 7500 and up to 15000 euros, provided that they comply with the reduction of consumption and reach the energy certificates of keys A or B. Can you tell me, Minister, whether Angel, who earns EUR 12000 a year, will be able to benefit from these aids? No, because you don't even have an obligation to submit the IRPF statement and you're not holding anything back, so those deductions, who do they benefit, Minister? But it is that the energy rating - because surely many in their homes will be wondering what the energy rating is - is nothing more than an energy label composed of seven letters, from A to G, that measures the energy efficiency of the house according to its consumption. But, as you will know, Minister, the following parameters must be taken into account in order to produce an energy certificate and subsequently to have an energy label: the climate zone, the surface of the housing and the state of the environment. That is, depending on whether it is colder or warmer, whether the house is larger or smaller, whether it has larger windows or less windows, or whether the walls are thicker or thinner, will be the rating of energy labelling, so the application of the tax deductions that you propose will penalise to a greater extent the areas with higher altitude than those with lower altitude, the colder areas of the warmer areas and the larger houses of the smaller houses. Given this situation, and given the broad economic endowment within Component 2 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, why haven't the deductions for housing in rural areas been extended, where in most cases the buildings are usually in a worse state of conservation and the investment to be made is much greater? Then, they pretend to get into the cart of the so-called emptied Spain, but their measures show their true interest and the permanent forgetfulness of the rural and livestock world. [[Applauds]] You are trapped in a sick ecology and the new climate paradigm above the very urgent needs of all Spaniards. Meanwhile, China remains the most polluting country in the world. It has now turned its policy around by trying to reduce polluting emissions by ordering the return to the intensive use of coal, in such a way that it has ordered the purchase of coal on the international market at any price, which is prompting a rapid growth of it and threatening to leave the rest of the countries pulling cold for the next winter. And you, while, what are you doing? They're obsessed with the 2030 Agenda. That is, already in advance that these rehabilitations will cause a rise in taxes due to the increase in the values of the real estate, and more now that, after the new Law on Fiscal Fraud, the cadastre will determine the reference value of the real estate, so for those taxpayers who have benefited from the tax deductions and declared in the IRPF, Hacienda will have the amount of the cost incurred in the rehabilitation and, therefore, clogged to the cadastre the value of the real estate, which will cause an increase in the reference values and therefore an increase in the taxes to be paid: in the property tax; in the most unfair tax there is, which is the tax on inheritance and donations, and also in the tax on real estate. Just like the disaster that you have taken off the sleeve, and I have already warned in my speech in this rostrum about the details of introducing in the Tax Fraud Act the so-called reference value, so the deductions applied will serve to pay the taxes in the future: first you give it to me and then you take it away from me. [[Applauds]] Finally, Angel, depressed by the non-payment of the quota of the community of owners, will sell his house and end up, at best, in a residence. Once again, they forget the most vulnerable. Only VOX represents and defends those you have left behind. Nothing more. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u29	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government brings us for validation a real decree-law of urgent measures to boost the activity of building rehabilitation, in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, but a little late, don't you think? Above all, because we have already started talking about budgets, and we will remember what the Government said a year ago in its accounts for 2021. You announced the largest investment in housing of all time: 2250 million euros, supported in the creation of social and affordable housing, a very laudable objective and which, of course, we share, but which did not marry budget reality. No offense, this budget of 2250 million euros will sound very good, but it remained in propaganda and fireworks, only surpassed by the current ones, which come to be about 3290 million euros. There were 1650 million that were not going to help strengthen its objective of promoting the provision of social and affordable housing because, according to its own principles, the main objective of these funds was the implementation of sustainable rehabilitation programmes to be developed by the autonomous communities at that time inconcrete and now also inconcrete. The only truth is the kick you give to the autonomous communities, kicked like those your partners give to the agents of authority and remain immune, with the complicity of the groups in this House that support the government. But, as far as everything goes, the municipalities do not yet know what projects they can submit from neighborhoods, because there are no calls and the homeowners do not know who to go to to get the famous European funds, which the government distributes as own, but which must be of all the Spaniards. To spend those funds you would have to have drawn up the rehabilitation decree in January 2021 and this royal decree-law also in January 2021, but not now; let someone say why it is urgent now and it was not before, that is, we will call it urgent out of disdain or incompetence, because we do not know what is worse. But we're not going to fall into negativity. This royal decree-law has positive aspects, such as fiscal measures to encourage the energy efficiency of buildings and measures to eliminate an important bottleneck, which prevents spending, both the spending of the communities of owners and the spending of families and, sincerely, we would really like that expenditure to be efficient, but not in the sense of energy efficiency, but to move away from Mr Zapatero's Plan, where EUR 8 billion was squandered. In Component 2 of the Recovery Plan you yourself have made a number of commitments that you will have to fulfil. They have offered precise reforms, such as the Housing Act, the Architecture Act, the implementation of the Desire, and then improvements in funding, which will have to be carried out because there are no immediate funds for these projects. You put in place a line of endorsements for ICO credits but under what conditions, Minister? Because if they are the same as those for rental aid, what is expected is a terrible failure because only 2.5 % of the aid has been requested, according to data from his own ministry, and then there are other specific measures, such as the reform of the Horizontal Property Law. You will know that something as obvious as the holding of telematics boards has come forward after a year and thanks to an initiative of the People's Party. But from the People's Party we have also told him more things. There is a lack - very important - of an approved, essential instrument which can assess the lower consumption, the lower production of carbon dioxide and the savings involved in the lower consumption of fossil energy, and to this must be conditional on such aid, if you do not want this to become a PlanE again. Also from the People's Group we have demanded the new Housing Law, which has already announced that it will take to the Council of Ministers on October 26, and we look forward to its disturbing announcements of intervention to private property. They must also bring a comprehensive and effective administrative speeding-up plan to give licences that open the doors to these funds. But the most important thing is who can opt for this, because you need a financial muscle that families don't have, and you propose that people get in debt. When do the funds come in, really? Because that's what everyone's wondering. Do we really want to boost building rehabilitation and energy efficiency or cover the file and turn this into a PlanE? I repeat that the real decree-law has positive points, but it is poor and we do not believe that it achieves and fulfils the objective of decarbonisation that Spain and the European Union have marked in the building sector and, moreover, does not solve collateral problems that are now very important that prevent the normal functioning of the sector and the implementation of these measures as can be, for example, the rise of the cost of raw materials; the raw materials rise, the light rises, the uncertainty in the development of the works makes them impossible economically. Why don't you use this royal decree-law to seek a system of rebalancing public procurement? Why do they not take measures, which must be urgent, to lower the receipt of light and not ruin businesses and self-employed people, whose only objective is to move forward? In addition, there is a lack of incentives for efficient materials companies, a lack of manpower for the installation of these materials, because this is not just going to put windows, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we understand that this royal decree-law is a half-way project, which should include what the People's Parliamentary Group proposes to them if we are to achieve the objectives, which we of course share, of social impact, of economic impact and of creating wealth and employment. We will therefore abstain and ask for its processing as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u31	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the validation of a real decree-law of urgent measures to promote building rehabilitation in our country, in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. We are not facing the validation of any royal decree-law, but of one whose validation depends on the improvement of the quality of life of thousands of citizens, because in a country where more than half of the buildings are pre-1980, where almost ten million houses need energy rehabilitation, in a country where 75% of the buildings are not accessible, building rehabilitation is a necessity and an opportunity for many of our fellow citizens, to whom we cannot disappoint. Firstly, a need and an opportunity for citizens who suffer from an ageing or inefficient energy housing, and who, with this measure that we are being asked to validate today, will have more facilities in terms of tax deductions and lines of endorsement in order to be able to enjoy a sustainable housing or building, that is, a housing that needs to consume less energy to provide them with more quality of life, which will not only contribute to the necessary fight against climate change, which is of course the fight for the survival of our species, but also to reduce the percentage of income that these families will have to devote to energy consumption. Social sustainability linked to environmental sustainability, the fight against climate change linked to the fight to improve the economic situation of families in relation to the cost of energy prices. Secondly, there is also a need and opportunity for citizens who, because of their age or disability, are trapped in their homes due to a lack of lift or other accessibility-related elements. In this specific section, these people have been demanding amendments to the Horizontal Property Act for many years. Well, to the already existing reduction of the majority to make decisions in the field of accessibility, this royal decree-law also adds that the communities of owners have that full legal capacity to act in the real estate market and to be able to apply for credits with the aim of carrying out all kinds of rehabilitation works, including also improvements relating to accessibility. All this will undoubtedly increase the chances that, in practice, the communities of neighbours will remove architectural barriers from their buildings, thus allowing thousands of families trapped in their homes to go out on the street again. A need and opportunity also for citizens seeking employment in the construction sector, a sector particularly affected by the pandemic and which, with the measures adopted here, will make it more accessible to them to find employment: 188,000 jobs, with a contribution of 13.5 billion to the gross domestic product. A need and opportunity also for small businesses, which have been dedicated to the housing rehabilitation sector for years. This royal decree-law will give you a boost in your economic activity. And finally, a necessity and opportunity for Spain as a whole to meet its country objectives, both of the Recovery Plan, of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and of the Strategy for the Energy Rehabilitation of the Building Sector, but above all the objectives for sustainable development of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, because it is not only a country objective, it is a planetary objective in which we play our lives, the future of future generations. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you the following, as in that song by Silvio Rodríguez: my shadow says to laugh is to see the crying as my crying. And I shut up, desperate. And then I hear: the earth weeps. He dies of pain and has to come running to live, for the future falls through any jungle in the world, through any street, through any house. Ladies and gentlemen, just a week ago we discussed and also adopted in the Urban Agenda Committee a non-legislative proposal from the Socialist Group on the impetus for building rehabilitation. We in the Socialist Group also unanimously adopted in February another non-legislative proposal on the need to promote green housing, and they are in the same direction. In these proposals we urge public administrations to promote the sustainable rehabilitation of homes and buildings in order to make them more energy-efficient, and also to ensure their accessibility. What I want to say is that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been concerned for a long time with this opportunity before us, and other groups in this House who also supported our initiative are of the same opinion. Today the Government submits to Parliament the validation of a royal decree-law that goes in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, this House would not only be against the interests of Spain, but would also be inconsistent if it did not validate it. On those occasions we heard the People's Party say that it was not true that nothing was being done about rehabilitation. We heard him demand that concrete measures be adopted, that the Government do nothing and that no legislative initiatives be issued to this House in that regard. It was not true, the Government was already taking action. But, well, there are more measures here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, here are the measures. I imagine that after so many months claiming the, uh...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u33	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u34	...for a minimum of consistency, they will now vote for their validation. I'm concluding, ladies and gentlemen. Out of consistency with what we have repeatedly approved, because it is a great opportunity for Spain, because many citizens are going to be benefited, and because it responds to the general interest of the country, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as it cannot be otherwise, will support the validation of the royal decree-law that today is submitted to us for consideration,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u35	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u36	...and so we hope that all the groups in the House will also do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u37	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law on university coexistence. The Minister of Universities has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule I submit to you comes to Congress four decades late. Indeed, it may seem surprising that today's disciplinary regime in our universities remains governed by a decree of September 8, 1954, given in the Peace of Meirás. It is a pre-constitutional and unconstitutional norm, which has no place in the current system because it is designed primarily to discipline universities with characteristics peculiar to a dictatorial state and, therefore, is clearly contrary to the protection of the principles of the political, legal and social framework of our democracy. It contradicts democratic principles and values, freedom and religious pluralism, the confessionality of the State and the regulation of the current university system. This contradiction raises many problems in its application because, of course, there are precepts such as - I quote - that the fault against the principles or institutions of the State or against the Catholic religion and morals is considered to be a serious fault; it introduces disproportionate sanctions, such as the perpetual expulsion of the university system, and maintains a sanctioning procedure without any guarantee for the student: in particular, it does not contain a regime for prescribing faults or expiration periods, by establishing, for example, as minor faults any other facts that, being not covered by faults as defined, could cause disruption in the systematic order or discipline. It violates the fundamental principles of legality and typicity and leaves a wide margin of discretion to those exercising disciplinary authority. But what is more surprising is that this decree applies only to students today: it is a fundamental comparative aggravation. The teaching and research staff and administrative and service staff have already been cancelled, repealed and replaced by rules in accordance with the legal order. But this is not the case for students, and therefore it is a comparative aggravation, in respect of which the university community as a whole, students and academic authorities have long requested to carry out an update of the legal regulations governing them. In fact, this was claimed by the Supreme Court in 1988 and 1989, and has been pointed out repeatedly by the Ombudsman in his reports of 1990, 2008 and 2012, recommending the development of a new rule providing guarantees for its development and application by universities themselves in the exercise of their autonomy. Indeed, it is not enough simply to repeal. Article 25 (1) of the Constitution recognizes that only by law may the offences and the corresponding penalties be established. Therefore, we need a law. The university co-existence bill, which I submit to you today, would meet this requirement with respect to the student, as has been done previously with respect to the research teaching staff and the administration and services staff. However, it will be possible by regulation to supplement the provisions of this law in its development so that universities can establish the regulation, in the exercise of the autonomy accorded to them by article 27.10 of the Constitution. In short, the draft law on university coexistence constitutes a necessary rule to safeguard the principle of equal rights and duties of university students and to ensure the full exercise of their constitutional freedoms and guarantees. This norm has been in a laborious process of elaboration, because we have carried out a thorough consultation with the university community, in particular with the Conference of Rectors of the Spanish Universities and the conference of students of the Spanish universities, until we reach a text fully agreed with both sectors of the university community. Therefore, in view of the situation of legal defence in which university students currently find themselves, we cannot further delay the adoption of a legal norm, a legal norm which, on the other hand, is in perfect harmony in all its terms with the overall normative roll-out of reform that the Government is carrying out for the entire university sphere. By entering into the content of the rule, the Government presents in this draft law a new agreement on the model of university coexistence and the system of faults and sanctions, with all guarantees of defense for the student. This rule includes criteria for adjusting sanctions to the circumstances of the particular case and the possibility of replacing them in some cases with measures of an educational or remedial nature, such as participation in training, cultural, public health, sports, university extension and institutional relations activities. The draft also provides for the possibility that, in emergency situations, such interim measures as may be necessary to safeguard the student's rights at all times. Precisely, according to the values inherent in the university sphere, the bill limits and reduces as far as possible the punitive approach, in order to propose a university model of coexistence - I insist, coexistence - based on equality, the full exercise of freedoms, tolerance, respect for diversity and an active and responsible peaceful coexistence. In short, this standard is based on mediation as a preferred method of conflict resolution. In this sense, universities, depending on their autonomy, will develop alternative means of resolving conflicts of coexistence, which can be applied before and during the disciplinary procedure, and will create a committee of coexistence of equal integration among all sectors of the university community. This committee may conduct consultations, propose, promote and facilitate the use of mediation mechanisms. In application of this law, universities, according to their own criteria, will develop their own standards of coexistence, guaranteeing the rights of assembly, association, demonstration and strike enshrined in the Constitution, as well as the freedoms of expression, teaching and chair, also in the constitutionally recognized terms. Finally, the law also establishes when a sanctioning procedure is necessary in cases where it is deemed necessary, with full legal guarantees. However, in this regard, conduct that could constitute misconduct is strictly defined and defined, classifying it into three levels in a precise manner: very serious, serious and minor misconduct, and proportionate penalties are established for each type of misconduct. We believe that this complies with the legal principles of typicality, legality and proportionality. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a final reflection. The meaning of the law we propose goes beyond the very university sphere and has implications for society as a whole, and I would like to draw your attention to this. We live in the world and in Spain in an era of political and ideological polarization, in a practice of systematic confrontation in any area that is eroding our ability to live together as a species and as citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent that we be able to reverse this self-destructive process. You, as democratic representatives of the sovereign people, as well as the government emanating from you, have a responsibility of exemplaryness in overcoming unnecessary confrontation and in the ways of discussing our legitimate disagreements, and I hope that we can agree among all that the university must be a space - precisely the university - where tolerance, dialogue and coexistence in diversity are the norm of conduct. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is at the university where many of our young people learn the rules of life in society and, therefore, it is in the university community where special emphasis must be placed on standards of coexistence, respect and tolerance, which can then be extended to society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let us set an example of tolerance and civility for our young people, and let us agree on a regulatory framework conducive to such behaviour. Let us dignify politics, as citizenship expects of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u39	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. We are debating an amendment to the entire refoulement that the People's Parliamentary Group, to which I am honoured to represent, has tabled, under Rule 110.3 of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, and which deals with the opportunity of the draft law on university coexistence. The explanatory statement of the draft states that the law reformulates the model of cohabitation at university level. Minister, Dr. Castells, is this reformulation of the coexistence model that has taken place in the Catalan universities of the past few months, which are silent in the face of the Generalitat's outrage ordering the supervision of teachers who do not teach in Catalan? Is it seriously insulting, without the protection of the Rectors, Professor Ricardo García Manrique for defending this that the representatives of the public universities must respect the principle of institutional neutrality? Is that university management worryingly equidistant and servile to the power of that autonomous community, which reflects the unqualified statement of the rector of the UAB in the face of the brutal attack on the students of S'ha Finat!, whom they left alone in the face of a violent mob on the university campus? [[Applauds]] [[Show two photographs.-Applause]] From here my support and that of my group to my fellow professors, to the students and to all the members of the university community of the Catalan universities, who simply defend the Constitution, to be able to express themselves in the language of the State, the freedom of chair, of association and of thought and the respectful coexistence on university campuses. My group really believes in university coexistence and that the public authorities must provide all the instruments to ensure the best coexistence and compliance with the Constitution. Or perhaps, Minister, do they refer to that dangerous current that spreads in American universities and starts to alarm? I'm sure one of the most striking last cases has been heard by your honors: 'I fired a professor in Michigan - after twenty-five years - for showing his students the film Otelo negro by Laurence Olivier'. A study recently published in The Economist analyzes what is happening in American universities because of initiatives that are breaking freedom of thought and chair by the empire of the politically correct as the only viable. These examples alarm us and we do not want them at the Spanish university, exemplary for so many years. Does this bill refer to this reformulation? Sincerely, minister, we hope you will say to us that you will not, that you will give us your word, because the universities ask for a basic rule on guarantees of coexistence within the framework of the Constitution, but do not ask or need to reformulate the model of coexistence. We tabled, as I said, an amendment for reasons of opportunity. To make it clear: we agree with the complete repeal of the pre-constitutional regulation of university discipline; we agree that a rule with a legal rank that gives the necessary coverage in relation to cohabitation in the university system is being worked out. We therefore disagree with the Republican Group's approach in its amendment to the whole alternative text; well, they say it to be an alternative text. The Republican Parliamentary Group has done an exercise in cynicism by shielding itself from university autonomy, as, with all due respect, you, Minister, have done every time you have had to act, and have not done so especially during the pandemic, leaving universities and university students to their fate. The Republican Group really wants to disconnect the Spanish university system, and you've made them too many winks since you've been at the ministry and bilateral table. We hope that it will not do so from now on on on. Why do we ask for the project to be returned? For the same reasons that we have asked to suspend the processing of decrees for the creation of universities and the management of university education once the firm decision of the ministry to expedite the processing of a new organic law for the university system was announced. As the Council of State has twice warned you, we ask you to respect legal certainty and the normative hierarchy, because they are basic principles of our rule of law and we observe precipitation, noise and confusion, which in no way helps to strengthen our university system. We are concerned about this government's allergy to the rules of the game of democracy. We do not agree to continue turning this Parliament into a puppet of what President Sánchez says. It cannot be ignored that legal certainty is the sum of certainty and legality, hierarchy and normative publicity, non-retroactivity of the non-favorable and prohibition of arbitrariness, and that the legislator must pursue clarity, not regulatory confusion. We must promote and seek certainty as to what is right. I do not say that, not by the People's Group, but by the Constitutional Court in different judgments since 1981. The Council of State Opinion 540/2021 on the decree establishing universities essentially objected to the fact that the text of the draft article 2 covered the matter of organic law, which is a university, and that is why the revisions of the LOU were multiplied, since it is obvious that the decree is a regulatory norm which finds conformity of normative rank while it is the development of that organic law which is intended to be replaced by the ministry. It cannot, therefore, even if that is the case, move forward in the regulatory development of an unborn law. The Executive may not be appointed as legislator, neither ordinary nor organic. If the organic law in process is going to be a calc of Law 6/2001, why a new organic law, which also rejects the entire university community? We know and suffer that the Government is eager to exercise the three powers of the State and that it likes the shortcuts. Dr. Castells has been eluded on various occasions by the guarantee and long-standing system of ours to change the rules. Do you remember what you told us in the Commission? "We are the most secure regime I know of all European regimes, and that is in contradiction with speed. I would like to make things faster, but you and the legislation that binds us to you will stop us.' It is, and it has always let us see this impatience. 'There is a programmatic commitment from the government and the commitments are met, they are not discussed'. How will we agree, Minister, if we do not discuss intellectually and politically? Minister, when it comes to rules, we cannot work in a mess. We are in a rule of law and, therefore, we cannot ignore it because we consider it a barrier to programmatic conveniences. And if we refer to the object and subject of these reforms, the university cannot be subjected to continuous vavancies; neither can university students nor any citizen. Today the grades are four years or five; tomorrow five, four, three; then four. Today we make a law, but then we end it with a working group, an order. This chaos is not what will stop punishing universities, it will not make them agile, competitive, it will not increase their quality and internationalization. He has also been told by the Council of State that including certain requirements does not guarantee higher quality of universities or that it has no economic consequences. A law doesn't make better universities, but regulatory chaos weakens and can collapse the entire system. To govern is to decide, no doubt, and that decision is the responsibility of the one who governs, but wrong choice of priorities can have irreparable consequences. That is why in democracy Parliament must act as a control of the government, and hence our amendment. It's our control, it's our responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the universities are trying, like so many Spaniards, to rise after this crisis, to help the country rise, to give a boost to science and to be a driving force for progress, but to embark at the same time on this chaotic transformation of its legal regime is not the way. Why has a rule as delicate as it is not submitted to the report of the Council of State? Maybe because you didn't like the other two opinions? I was beginning to refer to a surprising and disturbing manifestation of the statement of reasons, but it is also moved to article 1 when it says that this law aims to establish the bases of coexistence in the university sphere. In my group we understand that this is neither the object of the law nor of any other, I dare say, because the model of coexistence is fixed in the Constitution. There's nothing to reformulate then. What is different is the design of instruments, that is where the drafting of the standard finds justification. Therefore, unlike the other amending group, we agree with the managers and with the ministry, but not at the opportunity, not at the moment, not at the confusion, and therefore without the need to multiply the rules. Please note that the project itself from the outset has to be linked to the LOU, to its article 46. Tomorrow, if you continue your efforts, this article and this law will not exist. And then? You yourselves are saying that it is not the time, it is not the logical order, it is not understandable, unless you do not repeal the law, that may be the best remedy. On this occasion, Minister, the order of factors does alter the product. We are concerned that reformulating the model means gnawing and denigrating the one who thinks differently, treating in a different way than those who defend critical positions, abandoning criteria of academic excellence, intellectual rigour, merit, arbitrariness, goodness and the politically correct. We are concerned that the space of freedom of the Spanish university should be replaced by black lists, anonymous denunciation, the breaking of the principle of equality or the absence of guarantees for some. That is why we ask you to withdraw, we ask you to follow the logical order. The entire regulatory framework is open. Let us leave the regulatory framework open, let us not complicate it, let us give legal certainty, let us give certainty.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u41	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u42	The Constitutional Court has told us that this Parliament is the one that controls the Government, and yet the Government is trying to silence the Parliament. This is our position. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u43	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Universities. I will respond with my vote to the amendment by the People's Group that promotes the return of the university co-existence bill to the Government. In preparing this intervention I reviewed, Mr Castells, recent appearances of you and interviews in the media, and, in order to take more than a year and a half in office, it seems that you bring us to trompicones your legislative projects. In this sense, it is relevant to refer to the preliminary draft organic law of the university system, LOS, which is moved or with severe risks of being quite removed. It would seem more reasonable if the Government had reversed the order of presentation and started the processing of the LOSU before this law of university coexistence that we are debating today, whose development and, above all, its implementation will be left to the discretion of the university because of the autonomy enshrined in the Spanish Constitution in its article 27.10. Therefore, given the organic nature of the LOSU, I share with the amending group that should have been dealt with before this cohabitation law, as Mrs Moro Almaraz has just very solvently justified, because the Government advocates legal uncertainty. I am afraid, Mr Castells, that you have been in a hurry or eager to finally give some sense to the blue seat you occupy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to conclude without pointing out that it is paradoxical that the United We can, the party that has made the squabbles and scandals in the university field one of its signs of identity, reinvents itself as a promoter of coexistence. I very much welcome such a conversion; to see if they have the good intentions that, in any case, will be late for the young people who a few days ago on the campus of the Autonomous of Barcelona were the object of attacks and aggressions for defending our Constitution. My admiration for them, my contempt for those who cover violence. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today I am going to be glad that there are no more members of the Government so as to make it clear who the Minister of Universities is, because it is true that he is not seen much by the house of national sovereignty. [[Applauds]] In any case, the truth is that it is curious that you come here to talk about coexistence these days, and my colleagues have already said so, but it is that you bring here a law and there are clear examples. The first thing to say is that Esquerra has withdrawn the amendment in its entirety. I understand that if you have withdrawn the amendment as a whole it is because there is going to be an agreement with you; with this, everything is likely to get worse for sure, because if you have reached an agreement with Esquerra on this issue, this is not going to be better. [[Applauds]] But it is that the other day - and others have said it - at the Autonomous University of Barcelona there are some kids, the young people of S'ha Afinet!, who want to explain what the Constitution is, what they think, what they feel, and they are beaten, thrown out, expelled. And what does the minister of universities say? Nothing, it doesn't say anything. So how are you going to sell us a cohabitation law if you're unable to say anything in the face of that attack? What are we talking about then? That's right, I don't know if yesterday or next week, invited by the young people of Esquerra, is going to Junqueras. And then, praise? That's cohabitation. [[Applauds]] So, we are in the usual, if we go one, fascists, if there are others, we will have to turn on the light of the rectorate. Man, it's that you're not the most suitable to present any cohabitation law, because you're doing what you're doing is pointing out to others; where some kids go to defend the Constitution beat them, and when they go those who've been criminals light the main lights of the university to give them coverage. You can't do that! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u47	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u48	Thank you, President. Minister, we will vote against the amendment to the whole of the People's Group, but we also have some critical comments on the text presented by the Ministry. On the one hand, we share a hundred percent that sexual harassment practices, as has been said, novices or plagiarism, of course, must be eradicated. But what is presented to us as a warning is that, wanting to punish these deplorable behaviors that do exist in the university, student mobilization is also being pursued, because they are absolutely different things; one thing is actions that violate the rights or dignity of the people and the other is actions proper to social mobilizations, platforms or trade unions, which are also practiced outside the universities, whether they are manifestations, painted in murals, lock themselves in the faculty or information pickets. This is not going to be the legislature in which the pickets of strike have been decriminalized through the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code and, however, the pickets of student strike are sanctioned. Certainly, in the Catalan universities there is a powerful student movement that, after the course, is mobilized for social and also national issues, against the rise in fees, against the fall in prices, against privatizations and against the Catalan continuing to lose ground in the university; and that the Spanish right knows it and it is now about building a demonized image of our universities. First they did it with the schools, which painted them as a sort of temples of black masses where children are brainwashed, and now it's the universities, where there is also a powerful student movement, I insist, which has mobilized even with some victories - and that costs a lot - as was the 30% drop in fees. So, in our universities, what we do not want is for this regulation to be used as a double-edged weapon, which is also instrumentalized precisely against what it says to prevent its reform, to discipline the student movement. In this case, we will not share this proposed reform. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, good morning. Welcome to this House. Mrs. Moro, good morning. We in the Basque Group are not going to support the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, from the maximum respect that each and every one of the Members of this House deserves for what we represent, but in particular from the maximum respect that I deserve on my own merits, because I believe that he does a good job in the Commission and defends his positions well. You said that they presented the amendment as a whole for a matter of reasons of opportunity. Of course, I believe that what motivates you to present this amendment as a whole as an opposition group and as a spokesman for the People's Party in the Commission on Science, Innovation and Universities is a matter of political opportunity and is primarily due to the motivation to tip a kokotea, as we would say in Basque, to the Government; to tip a strong reverse in the form of returning the text of the bill back to the Government simply, without going into matters of substance and form. Because I fully share, and I believe you too, the Minister's reflection that this bill comes four decades late. It is not reasonable that, in terms of form, we argue that this is not the time, because for forty years it has not been the time and it is now time for us to face this paradigm shift, which I believe is very important, which represents the bill. Changing from talking about discipline to talking about coexistence now, including also that mediation formula proposed by the bill, seems to us to be a significant advance and a line in which we have to work. As for the text of the law, we share, as I said, that paradigm shift, but from our sphere of competence. What we would like to see in this parliamentary procedure, which will continue to deal with the partial amendments, the bill will be reduced as much as possible, so that it will be reduced to regulate those aspects of basic principles which are as little as necessary for other areas of competence - such as the autonomous communities in what affects them or the universities themselves, as you said, with their regulatory development capacity and their own regulations, in the exercise of that capacity for university autonomy - to develop it in accordance with their reality. That is where we are going to make an effort, where it can be reduced, and we will have the opportunity to talk about the substance of the law in the relevant Commission. Our vote will therefore be against the amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Mrs Moro, let me tell you that we really believe it is necessary that in the parliamentary process the different groups stand before what is today an objective fact in the eyes of all: the university in Spain, and especially in some part of Spain, is at serious risk of losing its essence as a place of encounter and debate, of confrontation with the word of ideas and of building common projects from diversity. We know that we are about to present partial amendments to this draft - we know and you know where you are going, too - but the government can of course forget any support if it intends to please separatist partners to satisfy those impulses that universities are a place of impunity for nationalist signaling. We want to discuss which university model we want, especially in terms of university coexistence, because it is the conviction of Citizens that if we are going to regulate the coexistence of Spanish students, too many examples already lack dialogue to close once again the door to what must be done here, in Congress, but also in the classrooms and on campuses: speaking, speaking and speaking. Minister, you have a question from this Member that I could have used today to answer. I was asking him if he condemned the assault on the vandalized tent of the S'ha Final association! Last September 6th on the Autonomous Campus. I believe that you have lost an opportunity, today better than ever, to condemn those facts, something that neither you nor the Government have done. Let us go to the question before us, because here comes today an amendment to the whole of a law that we expect little or nothing from this government, which is inhibited by constant episodes of signaling and harassment in the public university. In case someone is still lost in this House and doesn't know what we're talking about, we'll give you a little review. In 2014, the University of Girona tried to withdraw the title of Doctor Honoris case to Doña Encarnación Roca because she was a judge of the Constitutional Court but, of course, she was allowed to lecture illustrious separatists. This has happened at the Spanish university. Imagine if anyone had proposed that Don Pablo Iglesias be taken away from his doctorate for belonging to Podemos. In 2018, at the University of Barcelona, a group of separatist radicals accompanied by Arran - an entity related to the CUP - boycotted a tribute to Cervantes because he was a dangerous fascist, before fascism existed. In 2018, in the Autonomous Region of Barcelona, the constitutionalist entity Societat Civil Catalana has to appeal to the courts to be able to register as a collective in the Autonomous Region. What was the university saying? That this entity damaged the image of the Autonomous University of Barcelona. In 2019, at the University of the Basque Country, we welcome the talk of an age condemned for two murders. In 2021, at the University of Barcelona, the cloister of the Fascist and colonist faculty called the professor García Manrique for refusing to subscribe to a separatist pamphlet. Just two weeks ago - as I said - the separatist totalitarians in the Autonomous Region of Barcelona attack in a tent of the young constitutionalists S'ha Finat! And what does the rectorate say? That the parties that denounce him are instrumentalizing the campus. But today, October 21, 2021, today, Oriol Junqueras, convicted of sedition, gives quietly and without any problem a talk at the same Autonomous University of Barcelona. And so, you want us to really talk about living together at the Spanish university. Perhaps these episodes have gone unnoticed, but it would be interesting if I answered the following question: What would happen if those who were attacked at a Spanish university were Catalan separatists? That would have gone through this Congress without a doubt. Today, we are only discussing the amendment to the whole of the People's Party, not the amendment tabled by Esquerra, which, by surprise, has been withdrawn, certainly by some kind of agreement with the Government, which worries us; because if we were concerned about the Republican Left's own amendment, we are much more concerned that there is now an agreement between the Government and Esquerra, because we doubt that Esquerra will give up having university campuses in line with his separatist claims. If that agreement comes to us in the end, it will have only one objective: to give a letter of nature and legitimacy to the barbarity that is lived on the Catalan university campuses, that can be coerced, threatened, insulted, assaulted and expelled from the campus to anyone who does not have the same totalitarian idea of the aggressors and, above all, use violence as an end to achieve those ends. We are worried - of course we are - about what happened on September 6 in the Autonomous Region of Barcelona, when that tent of S'ha Afinet! was vandalized; when even a professor was dragged by the violent mob. Whenever someone is harassed on a university campus, the liberals will be the first to denounce him and be there to support him. But what worries us most is not that the totalitarians act as totalitarians, because after all it is theirs, we are concerned that the supposed arbitrators take sides with those totalitarians. This is what is happening on many campuses, as it happened in the Autonomous Region of Barcelona two weeks ago, and, unfortunately, it is not the first time that these criminal acts - because they are criminal acts - take place, given the absolute passivity of those who have the obligation and responsibility to avoid them: the rectors and the governing councils of the universities. And I say more, it is not a case of passivity; it is a sign of total connivance with the violent, in view, moreover, of the proof that we have in the subsequent communiqués, in which there is not a single word of aggression, of the aggressors, of whom the true aggressors have been. What nationalism seeks, relying on the government and certainly on that pact that you have already closed, is for us to leave the care of the sheep in the hands of almost the wolves. It proposes that it be every university - and today it has also been announced - that can establish the set of rights and duties of its students. What are you going to pretend to do with it? It is easy for Catalan universities not to be governed by a single statute of rights and duties, as in the rest of the Spanish universities. That is the goal, that in Catalonia only those who identify with separatism should go quietly to university and that violence is an argument for discriminating. Mr Castells, we have already told you from Citizens, you will not have our support if you do not get the law of university coexistence to be that, of university coexistence, within the framework of the Constitution and the laws in force in Catalonia and throughout Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the BNG shares the objective of preserving and improving university coexistence as far as possible, but not the mechanisms with which the Government intends to do so. As is unfortunately the case, we are faced with another state rule that does not respect the competition frameworks, in this case university autonomy. This is, among other things, because of the detailed development of a regulatory regulation which is also given the basic character. The question is whether this law is really necessary because, beyond the existence of a decree of 1954 not yet formally repealed and we understand that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible, there are, in fact, in many cases regulations of the university centers themselves. We agree with the criterion expressed in the amendment to the whole of the Republican Left of Catalonia that there is legal support in which to accommodate and legal cover the current regulations of the centres or those that could be established. We are concerned, in addition to the draft law, that the development of disciplinary legislation may include the exclusion of essential rights such as the manifestation or strike. In any case, we believe that the withdrawal of the amendment tabled by Squerra Republicana, which the BNG would vote in favour, must be motivated by the existence of an agreement that will presumably affect the aspects to which I have referred and that we will analyse when it is formalised, as is logical. Therefore, and without prejudging what the final position of the BNG will be in relation to a rule which, as I say, we do not share in many respects, we will wait to see the outcome of the debate on the amendments and will not vote in favour of the amendment by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u56	Good morning, Minister, Dr. Castells, President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. Minister, you know that we have been hard or critical of your ministry when we thought things were not being done right or not being done, but today I want to start, because I think it is justice, congratulating you and thanking you for your ministry presenting this text to us. We believe that it is necessary - after more than forty years of democracy, after not even the ideological alternation of governments during these years has been able - to update a rule that has been in force for too long. For this reason, I begin by congratulating and telling you that we will like to discuss, during the course of the text, some issues that we do not share, in particular, relating to sanctions and to the drafting of certain regulations that we have not yet seen quite clearly. We are going to discuss it and we want to discuss it within the framework of amendments that will offer us parliamentary procedure. Today, Minister, we are not here to talk about your initiative, but to talk about the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, defended here today by Mrs Moro. Mrs Moro, some of the things that you have defended from the rostrum in your speech I share, such as the concern for the spread of the virus from the politically correct things that tear down in American universities and in others in the world, also in this house happens a little, but especially in American universities. But next to that virus there's another virus that I'm more concerned about and it's the virus of no to everything. This is something that is beginning to affect your party in an already worrying way for a few months and that is to say that not systematically to all the initiatives that come to this House without presenting an alternative. The same Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows you to submit an amendment to the whole or an amendment to the refund, allows you to submit an alternative text. I say that if you are against what the minister proposes and you are against what the 1954 law says, you could present to us what your proposal is, what your intermediate way is, so that we can discuss it. But far from that, what you do is come here to criticize the text of the Government, to defend - in its logic - that since 2006 all the evils of this country always come from Catalonia, from Catalan universities. You have already said it, you have said it Citizens, I imagine you will say it VOX in a few minutes and we will have to endure, once again, as from this rostrum you systematically attack Catalan universities, Catalan schools, Catalan language and Catalan culture. Yes, Your Honor, you are right in one thing: there are problems with radicals in Catalan universities. But do you know what's going on? That anyone who talks to him has also had to run out of a Catalan university because he is not of the extreme left.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u57	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u58	And he has been expelled from a Catalan university by young people from political parties who have representation in this House, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u59	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u60	I'm finishing up, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u61	No, no, don't finish, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u62	And it is neither a problem of Catalonia nor of independence, what there is a problem with radicals that must be corrected...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u63	Thank you very much, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u64	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Minister, Dr. Castells. We will not support the amendment to the whole PP because we can hardly agree with the university model proposed by a party that has no scruples in using universities to pursue the Catalan language to increase political repression against dissent and independence, using university fields for political purposes. [[Mrs. Moro Almaraz makes negative signs]] We had an example of that weeks ago - yes, Mrs Moro - and we interpreted it quite differently. Ladies and gentlemen, leave your fixation on the campuses of the Catalan universities, open your minds. You, with your speeches, do harm coexistence; you harm university coexistence and harm coexistence in general. With regard to the bill that has been introduced, for us a country that claims to have consolidated democracy, repealing a law in 2021, which is a law of 1954, on which there are doubts of constitutionality, is not bad. You have said that, Minister, you are four decades behind schedule. In that we give him every reason and fully agree that this derogation was necessary. It is a rule that was adopted in a context of repression against political and social dissent, under the title of academic discipline, to control the public order of universities, something that is really no longer necessary. Universities must allow the student movement to express itself freely. Universities should be allowed to be a forum for debate and confrontation of ideas. That's the universities. What happens is that the explanatory statement states that the simple repeal of the regulation would create a regulatory vacuum. We do not share this because we believe that universities should be able to self-regulate, university autonomy should prevail. The bill before us is not a basic law, from our point of view, but a very detailed one. It says that universities must satisfy, must include, must incorporate. From our point of view, reform is necessary, it is necessary to establish minimums, a law of minimums, not such a detailed law. That is why we will be tabling amendments which we hope will be taken care of. They will all, of course, focus on respect for university autonomy and respect for students' rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u65	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u66	At Junts per Catalunya we are open to negotiating all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u68	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's 2021. We have waited forty-six years since the end of Francoism to repeal this Franco decree. Sixty-seven years have passed since the Regulation of Academic Discipline of Official Higher Education and Technical Education Centres was enacted. This demonstrates the difficulties this State has with historical memory. Then some are surprised that we are making amendments in full! We are talking about a decree that sets out manifestations against Catholic religion and morals and against the principles and institutions of the State. It is a decree that also establishes lack of class attendance when it has a collective character, i.e. strikes. During these forty-six years the universities, which have university autonomy to establish their own standards of coexistence, have been forced to develop these standards of coexistence on the basis of a Francoist legal framework. [[Rumors]] In that regard, those who have been exchanged in State Governments should explain why this derogation is so late. Also those of the People's Parliamentary Group, which today table an amendment to the full refund. [[Rumors]] From our parliamentary group, as you know, we have tabled an amendment to the whole so as to shield university autonomy, as set out in the Organic Law of Universities, and student mobilization rights. These are the principles that have guided us at all times, also in the negotiation. Finally, we have withdrawn the amendment in its entirety after reaching an agreement signed with the Ministry of Universities, the Socialist Party and Unity Podemos. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u69	Mrs. Rosique, one second, please. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u70	Thank you. It is an agreement that substantially changes the text and repeals the Franco decree, promoting an alternative mediation mechanism and its impact on the entire university community, shielding - this time yes - university autonomy, allowing universities their own normative development and student mobilization rights, and establishing that the right to assembly, association, demonstration and strike is always guaranteed, because it is a superior principle that must govern university coexistence. In this sense, responding to what was previously commented by the comrade of the CUP, who legitimately criticized that the text could allow some violation of these rights, our agreement resolves the persecution of pickets and murals. In Jovent Republicanà and Esquerra Republicana we are committed to the student movement, which is undoubtedly one of the pillars of citizen organization and the promotion of critical thinking. That is why we will take every opportunity to defend their rights. And we are also doing so with the defense of university autonomy, which we will continue to defend until satiety; and, as the ministry knows, we also defend it in the preliminary draft organic law of the university system. [[Rumors]] On the amendment to the full refund of the People's Parliamentary Group, of course, we are going to vote against it, because its amendment is a rejection of the repeal of the Franco decree, which shows that its links with Francoism are quite unbreakable and that they are eager to compete with the extreme right which is even noted in matters such as this. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u71	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u72	On the demagogy that has been emerging from the right in this debate about Catalan universities, I just want to tell you that we are not going to get into this issue because you do not even know the political reality of our country. We know that they are experts in potting chiringuitos from Madrid - in that yes - and we are not going to help them get it. By the way, university coexistence is not regulated, it is encouraged in any case. I simply want to tell the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group to stop pretending to discipline the students as they did during the Francoism. If so they claim to defend freedom prove it by leaving their authoritarianism aside. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u74	Thank you, President. Today we are debating in this plenary, in the seat of popular sovereignty, a bill that finally repeals the 1954 Academic Discipline Regulation, a Francoist decree that still regulates so-called student discipline in our universities. The validity of this decree of the dictatorship was and is a democratic anomaly and, therefore, seems to me to be an extraordinary news that today we are going to move on and repeal this decree that shamed the university community and all democrats. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Castells and his entire team for the important progress they are making for our university system in the midst of an unimaginable pandemic and in just two years. Thank you, Minister, for the historic expansion of the scholarship system and for the drop in university fees; thank you for stopping those private universities that did not meet minimum standards of quality; thank you also for the aid to encourage the qualification, especially for the Margarita Salas aid that so much hope has given back to young doctors, and thank you now for the repeal of the Franco Rules of Academic Discipline. I believe that our university system today is much more like what the Spanish university of the 21st century should be and we are confident, Minister, that much progress remains to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of academic discipline which we are going to repeal define as faults the manifestations against Catholic morality, the indecent acts or even acts that it does not even describe; and it does so, as is said here, with disproportionate penalties and without any guarantees for students. Today we are debating a bill that comes more than four decades late. However, the main reason for the amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group is that this is not the right time; that is, this bill is still coming soon for them. I wonder how much longer you want to wait for the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. I do not know whether 40 years seems too little or whether they think, like Mr de VOX, that the governments of the dictatorship were better than those of democracy and that, therefore, their legal order must be maintained also in the university sphere. [[Mrs. Moro Almaraz makes negative gestures.-Applause]] I really believe that you are doing an exercise of political contortionism by opposing a law that democratizes university space, because your refusal means, simply and simply, that the regulation of 1954 should continue to be governed. What happens here is simpler than all your excuses. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are in this House to obstruct and slow down as much as possible progress on rights. They already demonstrated this with their opposition to egalitarian marriage and the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, and very recently they proved it by opposing the Law for a dignified death. In that regard, we are also not surprised that they are opposed to consolidating rights and guarantees at university level. It's raining on wet. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have also seen that in their amendment to the whole they are the flag of the fight against academic fraud and I do not know if they are referring to the system that they set up at King Juan Carlos University to give masters to leaders of the People's Party, but, if I may, I will give you a piece of advice: do not expose Mr Pablo Casado in this way. [[Applauds]] Returning to the subject before us, the law of university coexistence that we discuss extremely the constitutional guarantees, because it is not enough to repeal a Francoist rule, but we will have a new rule that provides legal certainty and full democratic guarantees for the student. In this sense, this law complies with the principle of the reservation of law on sanctioning matters and, in turn, is respectful of the principle of university autonomy; or, what is lomism, universities will be able to develop their own rules of coexistence while respecting the principles of legality and typicality. In addition, in the face of authoritarian approaches of the past, this law builds an integral system of university coexistence, promotes the full exercise of fundamental rights, promotes alternative mechanisms in conflict resolution and also creates a commission of equal coexistence among all sectors of the university community. Ladies and gentlemen, it is excellent news that we are going to repeal the 1954 Academic Discipline Regulation. Today is a day to remind all those students who were unjustly expelled from universities by demonstrations against the LOU of the People's Party and the so-called Bologna process. Without the strength of that university movement, the commercialization of higher education would have gone much further and the university would have been much less public than it has today. The Spanish university had a debt to all of them and today it is time to settle at least one part by abolishing the regulation that allowed these abuses. It is also fair to say that in this debate we democrats pay tribute to those who at university played the type to return democracy to Spain. In this regard, I would like to encourage from this rostrum all the competent institutions to promote and coordinate new institutional initiatives that will enhance the democratic memory of Spanish universities and, in particular, the democratic memory of the student movement. Because democratic memory is the only tool that guarantees the principles of truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition in the face of systematic violations of human rights. Today it seemed appropriate to conclude this intervention with words from the philosopher Manuel Sacristán, extracted from the 'Manifesto by a democratic university', a manifesto that was read on the occasion of the historic assembly of students of the University of Barcelona in 1966 that was severely repressed by direct order of the dictator. These facts passed into history as the so-called Capuchinada. He said Sacristán, at the time, in those dark times: 'The Spanish university must avoid its definitive conversion into an oppressed apparatus that in turn oppresses the consciences and undertake the path that allows it to become the highest reflection of a people as plural as it is ours. The University must take in its hands the cause of freedom of culture and insert it into the broad horizon of the struggle for freedom in Spanish society.' Today we end up with one of the last vestiges of that oppressed university that in turn oppressed consciences. Let us continue to build the public university with democracy and democratic memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Sánchez Serna, if the PP and VOX are Francoists for appealing here to a 1954 law, you are, too, because the 1954 Law on evictions and expropriations of the State did not question it. Let's see if we can clear this up. [[Applauds]] As has already been said here, recently the students of the Autonomous University of Barcelona grouped in the association S'ha Afinat!, defender of the Constitution and of the national unity, were attacked by independent puppies, destroying their tent and demonstrating once again that the Spanish left and independence camp wide through the university, placing their posters, carrying out assemblies and all kinds of acts in which this modern left ideology is exalted. And what have those responsible for the Autonomous University of Barcelona done? For, condemn not the violent acts, but the visit to that act of our representative in Catalonia, Ignacio Garriga, and also of the deputy Carlos Carrizosa de Ciudadanos. [[Applauds]] This is not an isolated fact. The slaverys, the aggressions, the construction of a climate of violence against any dissident to the independent or leftist ideology, the pressures on the teachers, which seriously compromise their freedom of chair and, in short, all the violence that exists in the university is the result of the action of the Catalan leftist and supremacist groups, Basques, Galicians, etc. Look, 84% of the political violence in Spain is against constitutionalist parties such as VOX. Slaves invariably suffer from politicians or lecturers who oppose the breakdown of national unity. It is well known that suffered by Rosa Díez in the Complutense in that faculty that looks more like a seat of Podemos than a center of studies, crashed where he had a stellar participation that was vice president of the Government, Pablo Iglesias. With the Castells law these slaves will be justified as an expression of fundamental rights whenever there is no violence, he says, as if the slavery itself is not an intolerable form of violence. [[Applauds]] The lords of the independenceist groups and of the fundamentalist left do not want a plan of coexistence and respect for all ideologies, but rather a law that facilitates impunity in their desire to turn their ideology into compulsory through harassment and aggression; and in this they coincide with their left-wing lords, unpunished in their domain of propaganda and in the imposition of their ideological mantras. In the amendment to the total withdrawal at the last hour by the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left - we would like to know the reasons for this withdrawal, but we do not figure anything good -, they speak of critical thinking and say that the university must regulate critical thinking, but it seems that the only critical thought that is here is that which you exercise, because others do not even let us criticize. For you it is only critical that you defend your foolish and racist anti-Spanish supremacist ideology. When your separatist lordships speak of respect for the essential values of a democratic society, they are actually using mere formalism, because they deliberately hide that this society to which you refer is not the Spanish one, but the Catalan one or the Basque one. When you speak of respect for the institutions, you do not refer to the Spanish nation's own, but only to those which constitute Catalonia's autonomy and which you interpret as a means of achieving secession. When you talk about respecting existing legislation, that respect only affects those autonomous laws that you interpret as laws proper to a non-existent nation. [[Applauds]] It is revealing that, being political violence and ideological hatred the most important factors in destabilizing coexistence in university settings, let us return again and again to the victimization and collectivization of homosexuals by establishing a kind of priority. The truth is that there are practically no complaints of acts against the integrity or honour of these people, while the political hatred of the left and of independence towards VOX or any student association that disagrees with their ideology is constant. If any violence should be put first, it is precisely this. In VOX we condemn any violent act against anyone, either because of their sexual orientation, race, political ideas or any other consideration. [[Applauds]] The separatist and leftist bench has established itself as a defender of LGBT rights, when they are strictly only using them for propaganda, to associate a certain sexual orientation with a more or less defined set of leftist political ideologies, building a gigantic straw man against VOX. With regard to the amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group with a request for a refund, we have to say that they convince us of their formal arguments - which I will not repeat - on legal uncertainty. We agree that this law should be after the organic law that governs the university. That is why we will support this amendment in its entirety. A law of university coexistence must be guided by the principle of respect for different political ideologies and must a priori protect those who, because of their discrepancy with the left or separatism, are eroded - if not destroyed - their freedom to organize academic acts, such as conferences or expressions of support for national unity, the basic precept of our Constitution that separatist and leftist groups constantly attack. The impunity with which separatist puppies, philotetras or pumitas act in the different faculties, intimidating those who do not think like them, imposing their gunnery, attacking the freedom of chair and preventing with their barricades students from attending class, must end. The university must be a center of study, academic preparation and intellectual formation and not a field of political experiments. Ladies and gentlemen of the fundamentalist left and of the separatist left and right, you know it; Mr Rufián knows it very well and says it every time he goes up to the rostrum: VOX will win you this battle. There are more and more young people who are interested in our proposals, young people whom you have condemned to unemployment, ostracism, drug addiction or a miserable life in which you cannot form a family. These students are the healthiest tissues of our political nation, the most active and responsible young people, who will give us much more strength than we already have.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u77	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u78	I'm just finishing up. And I assure you that you will not be able to curb this regenerative impulse aimed at returning Spain to the Spaniards by minimizing the strength of those who want to steal our sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u79	For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as has already been said here and explained very well by the Minister, the Regulation of academic discipline of the official institutions of higher education and technical education under the then Ministry of National Education of 1954 remains in force, that is to say, that we intend to replace a pre-constitutional rule which is now only applicable to students and to respond to a demand from universities, but also from our young university students. It is a rule that, as you know, Mrs Moro - we have commented many times - was necessary to replace and that was the commitment that the minister himself made in the Commission at the beginning of this parliamentary term. It cannot be said that the Government and its Minister of Universities do not listen, because this is a good example of this, of how the demands of the university community are met; and of the university community throughout the State, because it seems, according to the interventions we have had today in plenary, that in the rest of the State there are no universities. We have fifty high-quality public universities and this standard is for all of them! [[Applauds]] A law was needed to replace the Disciplinary Rules and the Ministry was fulfilling that need. It was easy to imagine that a progressive Government was not going to develop a law understood only as a disciplinary norm with the same philosophy as this pre-constitutional regulation, but as a norm that bets by a university based on the exercise of tolerance and freedom within the democratic principles of coexistence and focusing the matter on conflict prevention, mediation and peaceful resolution. That is called dialogue-I don't know if it sounds to you, gentlemen of the People's Party - dialogue, consensus, conflict resolution. I understand that you are surprised to see the attitude of your parliamentary group week after week in this plenary. I have carefully read your amendment to the whole and I am quite surprised that you say the following, which I read textually because there is something you have not told here. He says his amendment textually: 'In this matter it is not enough to make up the friendly terms'. [[coexistence, mediation and feminism]] They put them in parentheses. Nice terms? Is that the image you have of coexistence or mediation? Have you read any research on mediation in conflict resolution in any field or in the educational field? Beyond the legal issues that you address to us here, this textual phrase of your amendment that I have just read is one that really allows us to see the consideration that you have on coexistence and on coexistence in the university field in particular, as you intend to focus on sanctions and we on prevention, mediation and the promotion of coexistence. [[Applauds]] The norm cannot have only a punitive approach, because, if not, it would not respond to the values inherent in the university sphere. But it is even more serious that they refer in their amendment to feminism as a term of makeup. All policies of the Government and also those of the Ministry of Universities apply the gender perspective in a cross-cutting manner. We have already discussed this in the Commission and have even reached some agreements with you. That is why I am surprised that it refers to feminism as they do in the amendment. When we talk about reducing the gender gap in research and university governance structures, when we want to promote a gender perspective in university curricula, we are putting in place measures to promote equality, Mrs Moro. This isn't makeup, it's structural changes. [[Applauds]] And this law could not be less, it could not turn its back on effective equality between men and women or on comprehensive protection against gender-based violence. In its amendment it also highlights this paragraph that refers to the law - and textual leo - as a text that was born with an ideological pretension in the framework of the educational model that the Government has developed since Lomlou. Let's remember what Lomlou says in one of her points about coexistence. The law speaks of a democratic culture and establishes for university education the importance of education - and I read textually - 'for coexistence, respect, conflict prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts, as well as for non-violence in all areas of personal, family and social life, and in particular in that of school and cyber harassment in order to help the student recognize all forms of abuse, sexual abuse, violence, discrimination and reaction to it'. Education for cohabitation is a goal since early childhood education. Why is this an ideological framework for you? Consult the co-existence investigations or even Council of Europe documents. Do not attempt to make the repeal of the 1954 Rules of Discipline the same use that you make of each and every one of the laws that make us advance in rights, in democracy and in which you always pose fights. For you, democratic culture is an ideological fabric. I refer you again to the documents of the Council of Europe, for example the document 'Living together on an equal footing in culturally diverse democratic societies', with European recommendations which seek to educate the Member States in democracy and to guide them in their educational policies. For you it is ideology and for us it is values and democratic culture. [[Applauds]] The existence of this pre-constitutional rule knows that it generates many problems and the ministry and the minister work in this law and in a broad regulatory framework very necessary, thinking of the university system in an integral way. Times aren't the problem. In addition, they know that we are working on extensive structural changes and also on reversing their cuts. They also speak in their amendment to a whole system tense by economic crises. That's what we're reversing. Or have you forgotten the young people who had to leave college as a result of their policies? [[Applauds]] We do not, and this Government is working on it, to reverse its cuts and to deploy a broad regulatory framework. This law of coexistence, in spite of you, will continue your parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u81	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u82	We now turn to the agenda items on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000063 and 110/000066 to 110/000075. The opinions will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. We shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, concerning the conversion into permanent of the measures relating to housing and supplies provided for in the social shield. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 94 plus 88 by telephone, 182; against, 80 plus 74 by telephone, 154; abstentions, 11 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u84	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP ON PUBLIC RECOVERY OF HYDROELECRIC CENTRALS. [[THE LORD VEHI AND THE LORD BUTRAN]] [[File number 162/000821]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u85	No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí and Mr Botran, on the public recovery of hydroelectric power stations. Voting by points. Firstly, we voted on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 95 plus 105 telematics votes, 200; against, 58 telematics votes; abstentions, 79 plus 10 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u86	Point 1 was therefore adopted. We voted on point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 172 by telephone, 346; in favour, 10 plus 60 by telephone, 70; against, 164 plus 104 by telephone, 268; abstentions, 8 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u87	Point 2 is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 10 plus 52 by telephone, 62; against, 164 plus 111 by telephone, 275; abstentions, 10 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u88	Point 3 is rejected. We voted for point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 27 telematics votes; against, 174 plus 142 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u89	Paragraph 4 is rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on item 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 10 plus 52 by telephone, 62; against, 164 plus 110 by telephone, 274; abstentions, 11 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u90	Point 5 is rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on item 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 29 telematics votes; against, 174 plus 142 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u91	Consequently, point 6 is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u92	We now proceed to vote on the motions as a result of urgent questioning. Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be developed by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to implement the young bonus commitment formulated by the President of the Government. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 80 plus 64 telematics votes, 144; against, 94 plus 98 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 11 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u93	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN HOW THE PRINCIPAL VARIABLES INCLUDED IN THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK HAVE BEEN CONCERNED BY THE LAST INFORMATION, AS WELL AS THE MEASURES THAT IT THINKS TO TAKE TO COMPENSATE Its effect on our economy. [[File number 173/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u94	Motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain how the main variables included in the macroeconomic table have been affected by the latest known data, as well as the measures it intends to take to offset their effect on our economy. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 79 plus 73 by telephone, 152; against, 95 plus 86 by telephone, 181; abstentions, 14 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u95	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u96	We go to the point of validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 19/2021 of 5 October of urgent measures to promote the activity of building rehabilitation in the context of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 94 plus 110 by telephone, 204; abstentions, 80 plus 63 by telephone, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u97	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 by telephone, 347; in favour, 174 plus 167 by telephone, 341; abstentions, 6 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u98	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u99	We move on to the debates on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the full refund of the bill on university coexistence, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. We shall begin your vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 173 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 80 plus 65 telematics votes, 145; against, 94 plus 108 telematics votes, 202.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u100	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u101	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions dossier numbers 110/000063 and 110/000066, agenda items 28 and 29. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 174 plus 170 by telephone, 344; in favour, 164 plus 121 by telephone, 285; against, 3 by telephone; abstentions, 10 plus 46 by telephone, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u102	The opinions were therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA FOR THE MUTUAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN ZAGREB ON 15 DECEMBER 2020. [[File number 110/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u103	Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the mutual protection of classified information, done at Zagreb on 15 December 2020. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 173 plus 170 by telephone, 343; in favour, 173 plus 139 by telephone, 312; against, 6 by telephone; abstentions, 25 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u104	The opinion was therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE QATAR STATE ON THE CHANGE AND MUTUAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 30 MARCH 2021. [[File number 110/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u105	Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the State of Qatar on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, done at Madrid and Doha on 30 March 2021. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 173 plus 171 by telephone, 344; in favour, 163 plus 63 by telephone, 226; against, 20 by telephone; abstentions, 10 plus 88 by telephone, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u106	The opinion was therefore adopted. - CONVENTION OF NATIONALITY BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, DONE IN MONTAUBAN ON 15 MARCH 2021. [[File number 110/000072]] - AMENDMENT TO THE REQUIREMENT OF ARTICLE 124 OF THE ROME STATUS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT, DATED 26 NOVEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u107	Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions dossier numbers 110/000072 and 110/000074, agenda items 35 and 37. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 170 by telephone, 344; in favour, 174 plus 161 by telephone, 335; against, 1 by telephone; abstentions, 8 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u108	The opinions were therefore adopted. - CONSTITUTIVE NOTES FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONVENTION ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE MEXICAN UNITED STATES, DONE IN MADRID ON 29 JANUARY 2020 AND 23 FEBRUARY 2021. [[File number 110/000068]] - DECLARATION OF ACCEPTANCE BY SPAIN OF THE ACCESSION OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM TO THE CONVENTION ON THE OBTENTION OF TESTS IN FOREIGN CIVIL OR COMMERCIAL MATTERS, DONE IN THE HOUSE OF MARCH 18, 1970. [[File number 110/000069]] - FRAMEWORK CONVENTION OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE ON THE VALUE OF CULTURAL PATRIMONY FOR SOCIETY, DATED 27 OCTOBER 2005 AND DECLARATIONS THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000071]] - CONVENTION OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE ON CINEMATOGRAPHIC CO-PRODUCTION, DONE AT ROTTERDAM ON 30 JANUARY 2017, AS DECLARATIONS THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[REVISED]] [[File number 110/000073]] - ADENDED TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE STATE OF KUWAIT ON RECIPROCAL SUPRISE OF VISITS IN DIPLOMATIC PASSPORTS, DONE IN SEVILLA ON 3 OCTOBER 2011. [[File number 110/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u109	Joint vote on the other opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions dossier numbers 110/000068, 110/000069, 110/000071, 110/000073 and 110/000075, agenda items 31, 32, 34, 36 and 38. We begin the vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 174 plus 170 by telephone, 344; in favour, 174 plus 143 by telephone, 317; abstentions, 27 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-10-21-CD211021.u110	The opinions were therefore adopted. The meeting rose. It was twelve and twenty-five minutes from noon.
