ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Please take a seat. Let's resume the session. [[Rumors]] We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees. First, it corresponds to the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2021, of 9 March,... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u2	Please, I beg your silence. [[Pause]] Please. ... amending Act No. 27/2014 of 27 November 2014 on corporation tax and the consolidated text of the Non-Resident Income Tax Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree No. 5/2004 of 5 March 2004 on hybrid asymmetries. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We begin this session with the submission to your consideration of a decree-law that responds to the very technical transposition of Community Directive 1164, which establishes a series of rules, a series of rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, this is - as I say - a very technical transposition that perhaps has a name that is not familiar in the context of the parliamentary debate, because in particular the rules on what are called hybrid asymmetries are transposed, according to the wording given to it by another directive, 952 of 29 May 2017. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this directive is to complete a package of measures that the European Union has put in place to ensure that they are adopted by all Member States in order to combat tax evasion. These measures are therefore based on the final reports issued by the various bodies against the erosion of tax bases and also on the transfer of profits, known as the BEPS project - by the acronym in English - of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in particular from the various reports issued by the OECD. The objective cannot be other than to achieve fairer, simpler, more effective taxation within the framework of the European Union and also to create a level playing field for all companies in order to preserve competitiveness and the single market. In fact, the European directive to which I refer sets out in particular five measures that all Member States have an obligation to implement against such aggressive tax planning. I am talking to you, for example, about the limitation of the deductibility of interest, the imposition of exit, the limitation on abusive practices, rules relating to controlled foreign companies and, lastly, so-called hybrid asymmetries. The rules they control, which are a reference for controlled foreign companies, what we know in our country as international tax transparency and exit taxation, are being transposed into the draft law which is being dealt with in parallel in this House, that of measures to prevent and combat tax fraud, which, as you know, is already about to come to this House for good. The rule on limiting such deductibility of interest has to be implemented by 31 December at the latest when the European Commission considers that the current Spanish legislation could be effective. The rule alluding to abusive practices is already contained in our General Tax Law, but, ladies and gentlemen, it remained to implement part of the transposition of this directive, which refers to the framework for combating hybrid asymmetries, which is what we really do in this Decree-Law, and which is the subject of this appearance, a decision that results in the amendment of the Corporation Tax Act and the Non-Resident Income Tax Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, it is a subject of enormous technical complexity that I will try to expose in the simplest way. Hybrid asymmetries are understood as situations in which the different rating of an income transaction or an entity in two different countries results in the deduction of expenditure in one country without the corresponding taxation of income in the other country or in a double deduction of the same expenditure, with the consequent impact on public coffers. There are also other examples, other special cases, in which this asymmetry is manifested, for example, in the double non-inclusion of income, i.e. that none of the countries takes it into account or in the double use of tax credits that individual countries make available to companies. That is, they are assumed to have hybrid legal qualifications because they try to adapt to the rules of each country and cause tax asymmetries, so they can be used, they can be used as instruments of aggressive tax planning to achieve the objective, as I say, of tax avoidance. At this point, I would like to clarify to you that the transposition of this Community rule is not collectory, it is preventive, as I say, in order to prevent unwanted situations from occurring. It does not seek, therefore, this transposition to collect more, but to prevent these aggressive fiscal planning behaviours that can, and in fact do, lead to a decrease in the collection of public finances in the countries of the European Union through this darker, more unique procedure, such as tax avoidance. In fact, I want to anticipate that the forecast is that the collection impact of the measure in our country is really low. As I said, the measures incorporated in the corporation tax and also in the income of non-residents are designed to prevent this phenomenon that can occur between a taxpayer located in Spain or a permanent establishment located in our country of an entity not resident or a related entity located in another Member State. I would also like to recall that the Spanish legislation already provided for measures in the legislation against this tax avoidance that derives from hybrid asymmetries; in particular, the Spanish subsidiary is already prevented from deducting the expenditure for the interest paid to its parent if the foreign parent is not taxing for those interests. This can happen, for example, if the contribution of funds from the parent to the Spanish subsidiary is qualified as loans in our country and as investment in the capital of the subsidiary in the country of the parent. In this case, if these rules do not exist, the Spanish subsidiary could deduct the payment of interest on the loan, but, look, the foreign parent would not be taxing for this because they would be regarded as exempt dividends. Now, with the transposition of this Community rule, which is carried out with this royal decree-law, this control is extended, more so-called and more typology of the different business structures, but also of the operations carried out between them. In short, what he is addressing is a more sophisticated, more complex and less frequent case study in the Spanish tax system. In fact, in view of these hybrid situations, the directive contains different rules that would enable those tax effects of asymmetries to be neutralized. In the case of the example given to them, the rule contained in this directive is that expenditure will not be tax deductible in the country of the payer, so the perverse effect that could occur without this clarification is corrected. If the country of the payer decides not to apply the primary rule and allows, for example, the deduction of expenditure, then the directive indicates that the country of the recipient of the income has to be taxed. That is, if it benefits in one of the countries where the transactions are being carried out, it will have an obligation to tax in the country where it has the conduct or obligation to contribute to that taxation. In this way, we will certainly get that tax deduction from expenditure to be taxed on income; and, if there is no tax on income, because there is no deduction from expenditure in any of the countries. It would avoid what is known in the technical slang as de-imposition. These rules set out this directive for various types of so-called hybrid asymmetries. It is these that are incorporated in corporate tax, also in income of non-residents; and, with these measures that are reflected in the norm, we are able - as I say - to neutralize the effects that could be produced by double taxation, in some cases, or by zero taxation, if tax engineering is done to prevent it from being taxed by them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to move in a direction that this Executive has been moving from the beginning of the legislature, which has a reflection in the processing of the law on prevention and combating tax fraud, and which finds the complement in the transposition of the directive, without having an impact either on investment or, of course, on cross-border trade. The rule also covers situations in which its application is not appropriate, so as not to give rise to legal confusion or misinterpretation. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, all this is exactly the transposition of the directive and is already reflected in most of the Member States' regulations. The deadline for transposition of the directive expired on 31 December 2019, and the European Commission has already sent our country a reasoned opinion on 30 October. The seriousness of the possible economic sanctions resulting from the failure to incorporate this transposition into the legal system, and also the evidence that its processing as a law, by the ordinary procedure, would entail time limits within which an appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union would take place by the Commission, made it essential to come to the approval of this royal decree-law in order to proceed to the urgent transposition. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the use of this royal decree-law as an instrument of transposition is constitutionally lawful to deal with problematic economic circumstances, according to the Constitutional Court; in our case, to prevent a sanction or directly from being brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Commission. In this case, there is also a clear delay in its transposition into the legal system and also the existence of infringement procedures against Spain, which confirm the existence of the enabling budget for this extraordinary and urgent need as set out in article 86 of the Constitution. I shall end now, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the ultimate objective of this so technical transposition, which involves so many elements I would say that complex, at the time of its reading and at the time of its reach, is to continue to make progress in achieving a tax system that is fair, that is redistributive, and that each one pays according to his capacity and receives according to his need. They are also aware that it is an extraordinary concern that the return of certain tax figures, for example corporate tax, is a non-optimal return in all the countries of the European Union. And you know that Spain has been working with the rest of the countries for a long time to see how and how we are able to adopt a common pattern at international level, for example, with minimum tax elements, which prevents the use of such international tax engineering so that, in the end, fiscal justice is not given in any of the countries that business profits, in some cases, cause; or, in other words, coordination and the provision of common rules is absolutely essential for the corporation tax not to benefit, in some countries, from issues that, because it clashs with another legal order, cause, for example, one to seduce expenses, but not to tax those revenues in the tax domicile where society, the corporation, which is being addressed, resides. We will continue to work in this direction, insisting that this decree-law is complementary to the law against tax fraud, and I hope that with all these regulations every day our country will have an updated, modern, innovative order that will allow it, as I say, to fight against what is called erosion of the tax bases so that each of us, each of the legal figures, will be able to really tax according to the benefits or economic capacity and, therefore, be fair, redistributive, and continue to contribute to the general interest. This is what this is all about, ladies and gentlemen, and to that end I would ask for your vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke on a position-setting basis by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Minister of Finance. This Royal Decree-Law transposes a European directive dealing with so-called hybrid asymmetries, which are mechanisms that take advantage of differences in the tax treatment of an instrument or entity under the laws of two or more tax jurisdictions in order to achieve double taxation. This measure, as you have explained, seeks to pave the way for competitiveness and the single market in order to provide all Community countries with rules to avoid this type of legal order on the tax bases of taxpayers subject to corporation tax. We are therefore faced with a further step in the evolution of international standards, which so far focused, above all, on correcting the duplicity of systems and their impact on tax systems of nations, resulting in double taxation. From now on, the legislative loopholes that allowed income taxation to be circumvented or reduced are covered by various legal structures that benefited from asymmetry between national and international standards. Since Spain is a country with obligations within the European Union, there is no other option than its validation, even if it is within the cataract of royal decree-laws that during these fifteen months of the XIV Legislature arrive at Congress on the pretext of being rules to resolve urgent situations that demand the adoption of a law. However, in this case, Minister, trying to transpose a Community directive which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union at the beginning of June 2017, it should be noted that it has been almost four years, of which the governments of Pedro Sánchez, of which you are a member, have had two years and eight months to transpose it into our legislation. I suspect that the current urgency stems from Brussels' warning to take Spain to the Court of Justice of the European Union if it did not avoid the tax avoidance resulting from these hybrid asymmetries as soon as possible. The European Commission's ultimatum and the threat of severe sanctions have made it possible to recover the dossier from the forgetfulness box of our Government. In Spain, there are administrations that have recently undertaken this transposition: it is the case of the Community of Navarre, which has already incorporated the European rules into its Foral Law on Corporations Tax, and also the case of Álava, where the foreign government of the historical territory published the transposition on 10 February; although I would like to note that almost two years ago a public consultation process was carried out with which the first steps were taken for the transposition into Spanish law of this directive, which has its effects, as you said, on corporation tax and income tax for non-residents. In short, as has been said, the transposition into our legal system of this European directive seeks to prevent the same expenditure from being deductible in two countries at the same time, or that one operation may have the consideration of deductible expenditure in one country, but that in another it is considered a tax income. In any case, my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u6	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u7	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. The content of this decree-law suits us, and that is why we are going to approve it. We have always been very much in favour of any measure aimed at combating tax fraud and also what we might call the tax fraud of glove white, such as tax evasion, which, although using legal mechanisms, is not available to most unprepared companies and, of course, to natural persons. The content is very technical, the Minister explained, and I have nothing more to add than to say that in the Finance Committee I belong to, I am trying to push to see if this anti-fraud law is passed, which we now have before us. However, I take this opportunity, as I am in the rostrum, to fix our position on Decree 5/2021, which is the next item on the agenda. We have already told the minister in the previous distribution of React Funds that it did not seem fair to us how the distribution criteria were being applied, and we voted in favour of responsibility and because we did not want to prevent the arrival of funds that were necessary for the Autonomous Communities, and not because they were for the Autonomous Communities, but because in one way or another, whoever has to execute it, they were indispensable; moreover, the Autonomous Communities, in many cases, have better means than the State itself. And we voted in favour despite the fact that the way in which the criteria were applied did not favor Cantabria. Again we have something similar, again it does not favor Cantabria if it is like it has appeared in some media, because I do not know the details of the package. I hope that when they apply it, if they apply it, at least they have provided for fair coefficients once the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands have been excluded. So again we are in a difficult position, because not adopting this decree-law means a loss or'delay of aid that is absolutely necessary for the economic crisis, and it would also mean a lack of solidarity with the island regions, with the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, which are specially treated, and with the rest of the autonomous communities. I will also tell you that we are putting ourselves in the hands of the Government, which, although it is sometimes not right, has an obligation to act. We in this pandemic are not in those of: Piove?, porco governo!We understand his position and, therefore, for the sense of responsibility as a member of this Congress and, at the same time, for solidarity with all the Spaniards, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u8	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I see I have seven minutes, but I'll be shorter. You have the feeling every time you come up to this rostrum to talk about taxation that all measures are short, perhaps because reality is harshly presented to us and all these initiatives, in this case the transposition of a European directive associated with hybrid asymmetries, does not cease to have a limited effectiveness, which is probably to be understood in its context and as a whole with another series of measures, but which little or nothing collaborates to avoid the great problem that this society has, which is not so much that of taxes as of fraud, evasion and tax avoidance that big fortunes and big companies practice in order to their obligation to pay taxes. This debate always reminds me of a little bit of cycling. In cycling there is an institution, which is the International Cycling Union - which would be the equivalent of European, state or autonomous public administrations - that is dedicated to pursuing doping, that invests a lot of money through its laboratories to pursue doping and that there are times when it comes to the conclusion that a substance is doping and that therefore there are cyclists who are competing with advantage. What's going on? That these cyclists often have also very powerful laboratories which, while those of the ICU are determining whether or not a substance is doping, are already working on the generation of another substance that is doping and not detectable by the International Cycling Union. Well, with this tax thing, it's pretty much the same thing. It gives me the feeling that public institutions are wasting a lot of time in determining the ways of tax evasion and avoidance and that that time is being used by the big legal and economic law firms to look for new forms of tax avoidance, such as the one we are dealing with here. That is why I think they are late and it is also fair to acknowledge, as the representative of the Asturias Forum has done, that it is also being done under a threat of sanction on the part of the European Union, which I assume has something to aggravate or stimulate when it comes to urging public administrations to do something faster and faster than they have been doing. In any case, yesterday in the Committee on Finance a representative of his party, the Socialist Party, was saying something with which I fully agree with the reduction of the VAT rate to a particular sector. He said that eliminating taxes chronifies inequality and I agree with that statement. But if one submits this consideration - which seems like a truth I do not know if objective, but at least reasonable - in the eyes of society, he realizes that in society this is not being fulfilled much; that the ones above, not the ones below, do not fulfill it. Because here there is a false debate, which is an interested debate, which suggests that the left wants to raise taxes and the right wants to lower them. What the left wants is for whoever has the most to pay and, of course, does not want to punish low income. What he wants is for high incomes, big entrepreneurs, to pay what they have to pay. Look at the example given by the big companies of the brand Spain, of that brand that seems to be leading to a gala. I will quote only two companies: Iberdrola, which in 2019 had 28 billion profits, 28 billion euros, and paid only 36 million euros for corporate tax, does not reach 1,3 %. Isn't that a way not to contribute to the collective effort we all have to make to get out of the COVID and have resources for those who have less? I could talk about another company and I'll do it: Inditex, well known for his altruistic and philanthropic work through the donation of medical devices. Well, Inditex in 2019 won 10,400 million euros. Do you know how much tax on corporation tax? Zero euros, as it sounds, zero euros. It's normal for you to have money left to do philanthropy if you decide not to pay what the state itself determines you have to pay for corporation tax. I could give you more examples, even Basque companies. Among the ten Basque companies that charge the most they pay around €98.7 million with a profit margin or volume of €1295 million; all in 2019. This is equivalent to 7.6% for corporation tax. This probably does not mean much to the people who may be listening to it, but perhaps if people knew that the company tax in the Spanish State is 25% and in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and in the Foral Community of Navarre around 24% - since the farms are outside - it turns out that they are not even complying with what they would have to comply with, that is, with what the law determines. It is no longer even a matter of going up to this rostrum to ask for a tax reform, which we have done. It is no longer even a question of asking for a special tariff or tax in COVID times for companies that have accumulated huge profits even during the time of COVID, such as Iberdrola with the increase in electricity charges. We are no longer asking that, what we are asking is that they comply with the law, that is, that they pay for corporation tax what they have to pay, because, if not, it is difficult to sustain any impulse of economic recovery in terms of redistribution of wealth and in terms of equidistribution in tax collection. If entrepreneurs continue to determine fiscal policy and it is still they who determine what they want to pay, how they want to pay it and what legal instruments they can cling to so as not to pay for what they owe, we will not be able to move towards the entire area of recovery that is being said. Keeping thinking that money will already come from Europe does not stop being an entelequia, because what is really shown is that the work of business lobbies to evade taxes is ethically and socially indefensible. In any case, we will support the motion because it does not stop being a step, although it is very lukewarm, as I said, and it approaches us in any case to scenarios a little better than there is, but that little we don't know if it will be enough when wealth continues to accumulate in very few hands, which casually remain the usual hands for decades.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u10	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u11	Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. My group will vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law. In fact, we've already done it. As has been said here, the rules on hybrid asymmetries of Directive 1164 are incorporated into Spanish law. It is also true, as has been said here, late, but it is also true - we have to say - that the government has already transposed many directives which were quite late. As Mr Martínez Oblanca has said, we, both in Vizcaya and in Guipúzcoa and in Álava and also in Navarre, have already transposed that directive, in one case in January 2021 and in the case of Navarre I believe in February. It is a technical norm that, as the minister has explained, seeks to seek measures to neutralise tax on so-called hybrid asymmetries, which are situations between a taxpayer of corporation tax located in one State and a related entity in another country when the transactions they perform or the income derived from these transactions, as she has said, have different tax classifications between Spain and that other country. The aim is, therefore, to avoid tax avoidance through transactions between related parties, eliminating situations in which companies that take advantage of their presence in other countries, in other jurisdictions, can be deducted twice from the same expenditure or situations in which there is a deductible expenditure but there is no income to be taxed. It is a regulation, therefore, as has been said here, very technical and complex that is carried out through two articles. With regard to corporate tax, a new Article 15a on hybrid asymmetries is incorporated, Article 15(j) is repealed and Article 16(1) is amended, and the Income Tax Act for New Residents is also amended by incorporating two articles. It is also a decree that has corrected the preliminary draft law in which, although all the cases in which the tax asymmetries rules would be applied under the directive had been taken into account, not all cases of exclusion that would prevent these rules from being applied to the Tax Lease structures, so that such operations could continue to be carried out in accordance with the directive and with the appropriate level of legal certainty. In particular, operations based on special schemes and differences arising from valuation and imputation rules, as I have already said, are excluded from the scope of the preliminary draft, contrary to what is stated in the directive. That is why, and because it is certainly a very technical rule of transposition of the directive, my group has voted in favour, and I also understand, as the minister has rightly said, that it is a complementary rule to that draft tax fraud law, which I believe we will soon be able to discuss among all of us. Mr Matute, you always talk about big companies and the tax issue and we agree, you may have to pay more taxes, but I think the important thing here too is that we all have a tax conscience and that we all apply that maximum that paying taxes benefits society, which serves to improve public services and also that not only on issues of tax avoidance are the big ones, but also many times the small ones, when many times you have heard about: how do you want the bill, with VAT or without VAT? That is also tax fraud and I believe that there we have a rather important job to do among all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u12	Thank you. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Minister, we are addressing this royal decree-law which ultimately does what it does is to amend the Corporate Tax Act and the income of non-residents in the field of hybrid asymmetries. Hybrid asymmetries that occur with third countries, inter alia, where there is a double deduction of the same expenditure in two different countries, where there is a deduction without inclusion, i.e. the deduction of an expenditure that does not entail the corresponding income in another country as a result of conflict between countries in the classification of financial instruments or the attribution of payments, or double tax residence asymmetries, imported in this case, structured mechanisms and other cases. This decree has been submitted, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, for the transposition of a European directive whose deadline for transposition expired on 31 December 2019; a delay which has already caused the Commission to receive us last October. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have to say that making the transposition through the Royal Decree-Law makes no sense at all. It makes no sense that they have used this legal instrument; even the gravity of the economic sanctions that may result from the failure to incorporate this directive into our legislation is not a good excuse. I am referring to the delay that I have just mentioned and which you allege as justification. That's why it doesn't come with the normal processing that you would have to have. But it is that, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you arrived at the government in June 2018, almost three years ago. They cannot be shielded from the fact that, as has been delayed, they no longer have another way of doing so within a reasonable period of time. And they cannot because their duty would have been to address this matter in time and form, and the normal course would have been to bring the law to this House for amendment in paper. If Spain faces possible sanctions for the delay in adopting this rule, it is only because of the Government's neglect; they have had time to bring it in. Moreover, in this royal decree they have decided not to regulate the hybrid asymmetries inverted, which, according to the directive, have a longer transposition period, until the end of this year. We do not understand why it has not been included in this regulation, rather than waiting for the deadlines to be lifted again. We do not understand why they are still playing with the deadlines set by the European Union. They put us in a very difficult situation, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law is intended only for cases of extraordinary and urgent need, but the Government is using it to pass other laws, bypassing the action, debate and suggestions of Parliament. In addition, the abuse of time limits for amendments is making, in practice, completely inoperative the possibility for Congress to introduce changes and improve the texts, approved by the Royal Decree unilaterally by the Government, which does not have the majority and does not have this House. These are texts that you present in this House and as a drag you continue to approve one after another. If we still have decrees passed on the harsh days of the pandemic that have been agreed to as bills and are not yet in this House, Minister! They have to come, they have to let the Bureau of Congress treat them as a bill; the rest of the groups have the right to discuss these measures, to make changes, to improve laws. The pandemic is not an excuse for everything, ladies and gentlemen of the government. It is no excuse to abuse this instrument and much less can be an excuse not to treat it later as bills; processing many of these royal decrees which were passed by majority in this House and which are blocked. That is the problem, which gives us the feeling that they will remain blocked, and that does not work. So, ladies and gentlemen, be serious and rigorous with the legislative procedures. The participation of the General Courts in adopting the rules is rooted in a democratic principle enshrined in our Constitution. Please respect it, carry out the procedures as they should, for the subjects as they should. Propositions are not made by royal decree-laws. Procedures have a raison d'être and parliamentary groups have the right to propose and improve with our input. That is why, Minister, we are going to vote in favour of processing as a bill, because this transposition has to pass through this House and we all have to study it and have the opportunity to improve it, if we think it is appropriate. We in Citizens have many proposals to make not only in this royal decree, but in many others. As I said, to the real decrees that came from the first moments of the state of alarm we have a lot of amendments presented and a lot of work done to contribute and that is why we will continue to work, because for that we were chosen by the Spaniards. We will continue to make such amendments in order to improve, as far as possible, the texts that come to this House. Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u14	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u15	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I was going to tell you that you convinced us, but we were already convinced because with this strange situation you always vote before you hold the parliamentary debate. Therefore, apart from shortening the negotiating margin, it is that you have the feeling of coming to explain what you have done rather than what you are going to do. But well, here we are. Mr. President, if you're running out of time... if you're not, we can be here all morning, I assure you. [[Laughter]] Thank you. [[Applauds]] He said that we are going to vote in favour; we have voted in favour, in fact, it has no secrets. It is a technical subject, but like any technical subject with certain political content. I would like, and your ladies and gentlemen know it, to make a clear distinction between when we are talking about a tax evasion situation and when we are talking about a tax fraud situation. A situation of tax evasion or aggressive tax planning are situations in which, by studying the cracks that leave tax legislation, certain taxpayers pay less taxes according to what the legislator had planned, but taking advantage of the legislation. The situation is very different from that of tax fraud, where the legislation is clearly not being complied with. To avoid these situations it is true that the legislator has to be agile, because to the extent that a tax rule is passed and some kind of crack is left immediately takes advantage, among other things because certain tax advisors,legals, do their job, and our job is to act quickly to combat these situations. And, as in medicine, the best medicine is preventive medicine. If we do well enough, fiscal legislation will be more difficult for these cracks to exist. In this case, what is it? Situations between partner companies in different countries and situations as explained above. To be pedagogical, that an income does not compute as income in a company A in a country A, when in country B your partner company has considered this as expenditure. Asymmetrical situation, computes as expenditure on one site and does not compute as income on another. Asymmetrical situation? It computes as expenditure in both countries. These are the situations we are trying to resolve, and we therefore absolutely agree with trying to solve it with a new article, Article 15a, in the Corporate Tax Act and also with a change in the income tax of non-residents. So, little more to say. Our group, as you can understand, wants to use - since there is no overall tax reform - to introduce some amendments to these two taxes. Here a reflection, Minister, not on this case, because as you have been told this is certainly the most justified to bring in a real Decree-Law, but I do account for it. Last year, as far as the legislature goes, thirty-six royal decrees-law; as far as the year goes, five royal decrees-law. We're practically out on the royal decree-law a week. There are no such urgent things, Minister, and the most dramatic thing - I think someone has also pointed out - is that when it is approved that these royal decrees-laws are processed as a bill, they enter this House. And you'll tell me: that's your problem, because I'm executive and you're legislative. Here I have to address all the members of the Bureau, but essentially those representing the two political formations that support the Government. When a royal decree-law is processed as a bill and more than a year is being amended, the capacity of this House is being limited. At the moment, there are real decree-laws of more than a year ago, I have even detected a prepandemic whose work has not yet begun in the paper, nor has the period of amendments even ended. And don't say that this is the responsibility of the 350 Members, because it is the responsibility of the ladies and gentlemen I have behind my back, who feel very secure, although my legislative capacity is very poorly protected. Therefore, I make a request to the majority groups: to unblock all those legislative projects that are real decree-laws that are already being applied but to which the opposition parties cannot submit amendments, because, if not, I assure you that we are losing everyone. Even if you believe that you win, you lose, because when these royal decrees-laws come out there will be situations that will be absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u16	Your Honor, you must finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u17	Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u18	You were right that if you didn't give him time, we would take all morning. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Today we validate a real decree-law that justifies its reason for extraordinary and urgent necessity because it is a transposition of European directive whose deadline ended 31 December 2019. But in front of a preview. Today our fellow Member Joan Josep Nuet, who cannot be present in this plenary because today he is also being tried by the Supreme Court for allowing a parliamentary debate when he was a member of the Bureau of Parliament. [[Applauds]] In this so-called Spanish full democracy Members are judged for allowing a parliamentary debate. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] It is a very technical directive, as you said, Minister, which seeks to move forward against tax avoidance practices. In particular, it aims to neutralize those known as hybrid asymmetries, which give rise to double deductions or'reduces of expenditure without the corresponding income. In a context of social and economic crisis such as the current one, it is more necessary than ever to end these practices of fiscal engineering exercised by multinationals that stop paying millions and millions of euros each year, to which the fellow MEP of EH Bildu, Mr Matute, has referred from this rostrum. That these large companies do not pay where they generate profits, that they systematically take advantage of existing gaps and do not pay their dues, are totally unfair and irresponsible practices towards people living in the countries in which they generate profits. Citizenship is the great disadvantage of such abusive practices, because every year these millions end up fattening the profit accounts of multinationals rather than being used to finance the most basic services of the welfare state. The other major disadvantages are SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Because of these tax engineering practices millions of SMEs cannot compete on equal terms, proof of this is that every year we see what ends up paying for corporate tax a SME and what a large company pays for that tax engineering. This is the case with Inditex, as mentioned earlier. That is why, for years now, Esquerra Republicana has advocated the harmonisation of company tax at European level in order to end the tax avoidance of large companies. Calculations by the finance technicians indicate that between EUR 50,000 and EUR 70 billion could be raised each year in Europe only with this reform. At the moment we find the paradox that countries that have a corporate tax policy favour companies here paying there. Curiously, these are the same states that in summer refused to have European funds in the form of transfers. This is a real hypocrisy in economic policy and cannot be accepted, decisions have to be socially just. This harmonisation would allow tax grounds not to be a condition for the location of the company's registered office and would reduce the current unfair tax competition between Member States. Common rules for the calculation of the corporate tax base would reduce aggressive tax planning and ensure that companies burn in countries where value is created. It is ultimately, and I don't know if it sounds like it, to end up with tax dumping and unfair competition between territories. In the Spanish State we also have territories that exert fiscal dumping. Let us not forget that fraud and tax evasion is the true black hole in the Spanish fiscal system and we must be courageous in promoting the necessary reforms that ensure that the most people pay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u20	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u21	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are called today to validate a royal decree-law as a way of transposing a European directive, as I said here, whose deadline for entry into the Spanish legislature expired 14 months ago. For this reason, the European Commission addressed the Government in October last year to warn of the delay and to assess it within time limits, which now require this urgent mechanism, since the ordinary parliamentary procedure would expose us to economic sanctions and perhaps even remedies before the Court of Justice. Here I take the opportunity to make a comment on something said by the Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Martínez. Mrs Martínez, you yourself have said this, criticises the fact that it is transmitted through a royal decree-law. That is why the Government has not done its duties in the past year. I'd like to remind Mrs. Martinez that there's been a mid-range pandemic. But if this argument were not useful to you, and we would like to see it, we already have an urgency, and therefore an urgent mechanism should be applied. If you yourselves recognize that there is an urgency, then you will have to recognize that the path is the right one, more when it can be processed as a bill to incorporate changes or improvements. In any case, the idea of minimizing the hybrid asymmetries that occur at fiscal level between the different countries of the Union, and those with third parties, goes in the direction of synchronising and, therefore, strengthening the tax systems of our States, and that is a good direction. More than good, I'd say it's unreplaceable. On this occasion, a two-pronged system, one primary and one secondary, is established, whereby different scales are applied between countries with the aim of proposing a certain harmonisation of tax languages and thus minimizing abusive deductions that do nothing but unjustly erode the tax bases of some taxpayers who also tax in other countries. Let us remember that the 2015 report on erosion of tax bases and transfers of profits of the OECD, which is at the origin of this directive, already warned that at the global level countries lose between 4 and 10 % of corporate tax or equivalent revenues. That is, between $100 and $24 billion a year smoked around the world. This same report also warned of other threats. After almost six years since its publication, we can say that some of these threats are far from being conjured, far more than ever perhaps. The unstoppable growth of some major technological transnationals has only aggravated the problems arising from ungovernable global, financial and fiscal governance or at least today's ungovernable, in which States are increasingly powerless to put some order and meaning into all this confusion. Therefore, the measure that we now validate is just a small step, very small - in this I agree with Mr Matute - of the many that must be taken in this direction. In our case, it could affect some 9700 foreign companies with subsidiaries in Spain and some 6800 Spanish companies with subsidiaries abroad. It seems to be an important figure, but the effects on collection would in any case be less, as the minister warned. It is true that the effect sought is not collection, but rather greater interconnection and interconnection between national tax administrations, possibly a more effective and fairer system of tax systems for both developing and developed countries. However, in the long run for a coordinated update of national tax systems in their fight against tax fraud and in the midst of an accelerated globalization process, we are always desperately late. Once again we are beginning to take regulatory steps now, despite the fact that the problems, the prospections and the judicious analyses that warned of new risks were already on top of the multilateral tables of the policy makers. Late, ladies, too late. In fact, it is this structural delay that led a number of European countries, including ours, to unilaterally legislate on the taxation of financial transactions, as well as on certain digital services-remember - both identified needs already decades ago also within the framework of the OECD, but which have not yet been regulated or harmonised at international level. Let us at least welcome today the fact that a large group of countries are able to make coordinated progress through the channels provided by the institutions of the European Union, and let us also celebrate the Europe agreement recently reached for the pooled financing of the Next Generation funds, because this will undoubtedly also necessarily contribute to greater fiscal harmonisation between European countries. As I was saying, we can't settle for the walk so far. For example, in the area of tax havens, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 21 January calling for the revision of the European list of paradises,since the current one, created in 2017, barely covers 2% of the world's tax revenue losses. In addition, the resolution expressly calls on the Commission and the Council to propose an effective minimum level of taxation which constitutes an autonomous criterion for the Union list. The latter is key, as the concept of non-cooperative jurisdiction, as it is currently defined and in the light of recent experience, has proved insufficient to shield our tax system from fraud. The very existence of countries with a certain tax morality distracted within the Union makes this progress demanded even more urgent. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by welcoming the translation into Spanish law of international tax agreements. And we welcome this because it is the sine qua non condition for making the welfare states in Europe sustainable, because today, ladies and gentlemen, in the present state of affairs, sustainability is seriously threatened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Council of Ministers on 9 March, the Government had the will to approve, on the one hand, a package of million-dollar aid to an airline with a single plane, Plus Ultra - which so many bankrupts are giving to the Minister of Finance - and, on the other hand, the royal Decree-Law which we have come to validate on the amendment of the Tax Act on Companies and on the rent of non-residents in relation to hybrid asymmetries and which brings its case into force in transposition of the European Directive 1164. It is a regulation, as has already been said here, with little impact on our tax system, as mentioned on page 11, the normative impact memory accompanying this Royal Decree-Law. Therefore, the urgent need to validate this rule does not stem from its own content, but rather from the need for the European Commission's once again giving eardropping to the Spanish Government for not doing its work in time and form and not transposing the directives in time, which in this case expired in December 2019. We are therefore talking about a European anti-hybrid regulation which is not strictly designed on abusive or artificial transactions as a general or specific anti-abuse clause, but rather in situations where, as a result of the different tax classifications between the jurisdictions of different jurisdictions, there are deduction results and not inclusion or double deduction of payments, expenses or losses so that such asymmetry of results generates effects which are considered to have to be neutralized. And since we are talking about asymmetries, it is a good time to remember the asymmetries that the government approves every Tuesday with aid for some economic sectors, excluding others, rescuing strategic companies for the Venezuelan government and denying aid to hairdressers, beauty centers, self-schools, souvenir shops, etc., and thus letting the Spanish self-employed and SMEs break down; not without, of course, going through the window to pay their taxes and social contributions. [[applause]] These are asymmetries, Minister, and that concept I think they dominate, they're specialists. Yes, minister, we already know that you collect taxes, but don't forget one thing and it's that in the public administration it's not all about collecting also you have to know how to spend and, above all, know how to pay. And I'm telling you this because when you were a tax advisor in Andalusia under your control, there were public entities that took up to 490 ninety days to pay. [[Applauds]] Yes, 490 days without paying to those you do not allow today to open your business while drowning them with more and greater taxes. Because it is very important for a finance minister to know of a faithful image and not of hidden debts, especially now that Spain and its companies are waiting for the arrival of European funds, especially now that her government does not attend to reasons and disobeys the AIReF and especially now that her government does not define a medium-term fiscal road map. Remember, Minister, that prosecutor is not the same as tax, nor is it the same Royal Decree-Law as draft law; and less so at the hands of your Government, a weak, poorly coordinated and disintegrated Government. Since the beginning of April we have been waiting for the processing of fifteen bills from royal decrees that their parliamentary support prevents processing. And with regard to the case before us, on December 30 of last year the Ministry of Finance submitted this royal Decree-Law as a preliminary draft law to public hearing, which should have been a draft law you do by way of urgency. What's the reason? Clearly, the seriousness of the possible economic sanctions resulting from the failure to transpose the directive into Spanish law and the evidence that its processing as a project by the ordinary procedure entails time limits which would, as they have already said, result from the Commission's bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. And this does not escape anyone because you already have enough experience that the European Court condemns Spain to pay EUR 15 million and EUR 89 000 per day for the delay and lack of information in transposing directives. And as always, those who end up paying the bill for their negligence are the Spanish suffocated at taxes that you say are necessary to sustain the welfare state. If we start to add, between the rescue of Plus Ultra and the European sanctions would already give us to go and eliminate taxes that are not going to finance public services, but errors of his government. [[Applauds]] Look, you have ended up enthroning the figure of the royal Decree-Law, a normative provision designed for situations of extraordinary and urgent need that has become our daily bread. And like the totalitarian regimes that took good note of the decree-laws and transformed them into their ordinary form of lawmaking, you too have done so and so the Decree-law is witness to the inability of a political regime to maintain the original ideological budgets of the rule of law: separation of powers. Does that ring a bell? [[Applauds]] By the way, I take this opportunity to remind you that we are still waiting for the rebalancing plan. Look, Minister, we are not going to oppose, of course, the validation of this Royal Decree-Law, although we will ask for its procedure as a bill, even though we know that every Tuesday we will see the eternal extension of the deadline for amendments. In conclusion, I remind you of what I said to you in one of my first speeches in this legislature: I appear before you in severe mourning for the disastrous economic consequences your proposals have for our nation. That was on 27 February 2020, when his Government denied the maximum and did not comply with the measures against COVID-19. Today, your decisions and harassments have caused tens of thousands of deaths, hundreds of thousands of closed businesses and thousands of families to make the queues of hunger, but the urgency is the urgency, and approving this royal decree-law for you is. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u24	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The honourable Member places on the rostrum a folder in which she reads: POPULARES]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Group we are going to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u26	Your Honor, one second, please. Place the folder properly, as I have indicated, if you don't mind. [[The lady]] Like this. Thank you. Go on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. He doesn't like it looking popular. From the People's Group we will pass this royal decree-law that modifies corporation tax and non-resident income tax. Of course, this is the transposition of a European directive to avoid the so-called hybrid asymmetries that would allow for double international deduction, so we fully agree with the substance of this royal decree, but as far as forms, Minister, cannot be governed by a decree-law. You go late and wrong, it has already been said here, and is that the deadline for transposition expired on December 31, 2019, and again the abuse of the royal decree-law, that is, you have had almost three years to process it as a bill and bring it back as a decree. Look, eighty decree-laws and forty before the COVID, this, Minister, is not freedom, this is an absolute contempt for this House. [[Applauds]] Minister, in order to avoid hybrid asymmetries, some tax measures have to be applied in a uniform and simultaneous overall way in all countries, as we already told you when the Google rate and the Tobin rate were approved. You implemented them unilaterally and thus created competitive disadvantages for our companies, unlike other countries like France, which abandoned the application of the Google rate until there was one at the OECD level. Therefore, not so, Minister, so hybrid asymmetries are not avoided, so distortions are created and our SMEs are harmed. But, of course, what do you care about competitiveness, productivity or corporate solvency, if you are absolutely obsessed with the rise in taxes moving away from the line that other countries such as Germany, France or Italy have carried out, being Spain the only country that has risen taxes in the European Union and in January you have announced a new rise in taxes, which is added to the existing one, that is, a new tax haven in 2021. Madam Minister, this government is not responsible for the pandemic, but it is responsible for the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing as a result of the pandemic, it is responsible for this country having had the greatest economic collapse in all developed economies, with a fall of 17% of gross domestic product, it is responsible for this country being the country that has destroyed the most jobs throughout the European Union and it is responsible for this country being the least aided to combat the pandemic, 1.3% of gross domestic product compared to 4% of the European average. By the way, Minister, Europe is now drawing them a red card because of the high risk of the Spanish debt level, which has risen from 95% to 120%. And yesterday we also knew how the Banco de España worsens its economic forecast. That is, this year we are going to grow by 6%, when you have put in your budgets an increase of 9.8%. No one, the OECD, the Bank of Spain, the AIReF, the IMF, the European Commission, we, no one believes their accounts or their numbers, Minister. And since we are not going to grow and we are not going to get those revenues there will be more deficits that will have to be covered with taxes or debts. I mean, the perfect storm. That is, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And the last thing, Minister, was a ray of light, as far as European funds are concerned, with EUR 140 billion to save businesses, to save jobs, despite the fact that there are already over 100,000 companies that have disappeared. But you have crossed all the red lines. The rescue of Plus Ultra is a scandal and a shame; the owners have accounts in tax havens; it is a company with losses, but if here a SME or a self-employed person has an account in a tax haven or has losses, they cannot access direct aid. They will be given no 150,000, but 200,000 euros for each worker to Plus Ultra because they have fewer workers, however, hairdressers, beauty centers or self-schools cannot access direct support. That is also asymmetry, Minister. Turns out they base the bailout on two reports; one of them is a report from an investment bank, Daiwa, - not 'of equal'-, Daiwa is the bank; you will know it. And the other report that is decisive, of course, of Mr Ábalos. Do you know what an entrepreneur or a self-employed person is asking himself on the street?: Will this government allocate European funds to the finger? Will this government allocate European funds with an arbitrary and discretionary model, as it did with Isofoton at the Andalusian Junta, as it has now done with Plus Ultra or as it did with the EREs creating a customer network? That's what the street people are asking, Minister. [[Applauds]] Is SEPI the front door for the allocation of European funds? Is that the model you've exported from the Andalusian Junta? Because European funds are not to buy wills or to make friends. Speaking of taxes, Minister, Members of Parliament, Inditex paid in Spain 1874 million euros more than Plus Ultra, which has not paid taxes because it has always given losses, or that Iglesias and Montero for their nanny, that we pay all the Spaniards. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, you are solely responsible for putting SEPI at the forefront for refusing to tell us why it has taken six hundred days to fill the vacancy of SEPI's president. Why has it been six hundred days, Minister? The president of SEPI, who, to say the least, is being prosecuted for prevarication. And above that, Mr Ábalos's black hand appears; that is, the best thing that can happen to you and to all the Spaniards is that this Commission should be initiated, as requested by the Group of the European People's Party. I'm done, Mr. President. You bring us today a decree to avoid hybrid asymmetries; and I tell you that it is more important that you avoid entrepreneurship and no legal or financial basis, because, as employers say, it is a terrible precedent for the distribution of European funds. Or, in other words, as the president of the autonomous says, stop humming with the Spaniards. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u28	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u29	Thank you, President. Mrs Cañizares, defending the reduction of taxes, defending the free market, defending the rescue who can, while at the same time defending a reduction in the deficit and at the same time claiming public aid is asymmetrical, you look as you like. [[Applauds]] And, Madam Spain, you say that we are obviously not responsible for the pandemic, but that we are responsible for the economic contraction that this country suffered in 2020, that 11%, when, moreover, all the countries of the European Union have experienced contractions in their economies. 11% seems very much to you; 13.6% will seem more to you. 13.6% is the contraction of the economy of its Autonomous Community of Madrid, its Ayuso and its country of wonders. [[Applauds]] The fight against circumvention and tax fraud must be a priority for every Government, for all except for just those who have preceded me in speaking. You have forgotten very quickly what you were doing when you were ruling. You don't remember tax amnesties anymore? Because in the fight against evasion, evasion and tax fraud you have sinned a lot, by action and omission. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law certainly has a high technical content, as has already been said, but let me also clarify, because here the transposition of it has been criticized, that the transposition has a high ideological content, because you forget very quickly. This tax avoidance package has a date, and has been known since 2016. And if you believe and fight against evasion, evasion and tax fraud from the government, you are among the first countries to transpose this directive. On the other hand, we have not, and you have said it very well to Mr Martínez Oblanca. This directive has been kept in the drawer of oblivion by the People's Party, and you can go up here, in the rostrum, and declare yourself European, Mrs Spain, as many times as you think, but they are annoyed by European laws, which are fairer, greener, more transparent. And why do they bother you? Because we have data, by default. You have been the kings in omitting European directives and, if not, explain to us how in 2017 and 2018 Spain occupied the first place of the countries most penalized for failing to comply with Community rules. And what did they do? Paying fines, Mrs Spain, EUR 54 million in fines for failing to comply with European directives. Does the figure ring a bell? You just said it, because, when you tell me the figure of the 50 million of the rescue of Plus Ultra - and we talk about the rescue to all the Spaniards - we come to the head of the sixty years that they ask Rodrigo Rato, we come to the head of the 22 billion that cost the rescue of Bankia, we come to the head of their actions. [[Applauds]] The rescue of Plus Ultra: three independent reports, an impeccable administrative procedure, and I doubt very much that you can say the same about the rescue to Bankia. Then they didn't remember the hairdressers, so no; then, just the banks. Have they been unbeatable in their management because they have always failed to comply with the European agreements, or do they not remember how many times they have failed to comply with the deficit target agreements? They never did. How they are going to comply with a tax amnesty - trusting that they will square your accounts with tax amnesty, it will be that no -, a tax amnesty - look at me, look at me, Mrs. Spain - that declared unconstitutional, because as much as you come here to tell us that they are fighting tax fraud, that was an abuse and it was a gift precisely for tax evaders. It's the biggest blur that a finance minister can have in his file, and that finance minister is not ours, it's his; it's Montoro. [[Applauds]] And what happened in 2013, Mrs. Spain? In 2013, the accounts were not even squared. And why? Because it was the first time in the historical series of the collection of the fight against tax fraud that came down, and the minister was his. So I understand your frustration every time you come up to this rostrum to talk to us about some economic issue or some tax issue, and I understand it. I understand it perfectly, because you can talk here today about struggle, that we agree against tax evasion and evasion, that we are going to do all the actions and that the People's Party has done very well, but here, in June, the international treaty combating tax evasion and evasion in relation to Gibraltar after the Brexit, and what did the People's Party do? Same as VOX: vote against. So lessons, Mrs. Spain, none. [[Applauds]] They vote against, they hide European directives, they do not care about transparency, because by actions or omissions you say a lot, say a lot, but you have done very little. They can now sell Genoa to clean up their image, but they will never be able to regain the credibility they have never had in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. They can accuse us of protectionists in any field, even in the tax. You know what? Economic science, economic policy, the actions we do as political parties and our DNA is transferred to those decisions; we are human beings, and we have learned, Mrs Spain, that over the years your policies do not serve to get out of the crisis. You can accuse us, as I told you, of protectionists, but never - look at me - can you ever tell us that we have been permissive with fraud or evasion or tax evasion, and I think you cannot say the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u30	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 5/2021, OF 12 MARCH, OF EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE ENTERPRISE SOLVENCY IN RESPONSE TO THE PANDEMIA OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u31	We proceeded to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 of 12 March of extraordinary measures in support of corporate solvency in response to the VID-19 pandemic. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u32	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen, today I appear before the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 of 12 March of extraordinary measures in support of business solvency in response to the VID-19 pandemic. This is a rule that joins the battery of measures that we have been implementing with agility, speed and determination since March 2020 to support businesses, self-employed people, workers and families in our country. And as I always do, ladies and gentlemen, that 'we have been putting' is collective because the government has proposed and adopted the royal decree-laws and it has been this Congress of Deputies that has validated them, so we have all set up that security network. A little over a month ago, when he appeared in this Chamber to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 34/2020, I told you that at this time of the pandemic it was paramount to continue to advance the possible solvency problems that may arise. We then adopted very important measures to relieve the financial burden of viable companies and to give them additional time to meet their commitments such as the extension of the maturity and the lack of credits endorsed by the Institute of Official Credit. With the actual Decree-Law that we bring to validation today we continue to advance in this line, convinced that in order to face the recovery it is essential to continue to act as until now, in advance, foreseeing the possible difficulties that they will have to face, and taking responsible, rigorous and quiet measures to avoid structural damage to our productive fabric. Because there is no doubt that the duration of restrictions of activity in some sectors and territories of our country and also in the countries of our environment is causing a significant drop in income for many companies, increasing the risk of deterioration of their balance sheets and an increase in the over-indebtedness that could hinder recovery and job creation from the second half of the year. In order to prevent this permanent structural damage, the Government has, from the outset, deployed an important safety net amounting to 20% of GDP by 2020. The most quantitatively relevant measures that you are well aware of are the ICO's guarantees, which have mobilised more than EUR 122.6 billion in funding, and public support for temporary employment regulation dossiers. No less important are benefits for self-employed workers, banking, tax and social security moratoria and other moratoria and exemptions. Thanks to this determined response of support to companies, of an effectiveness and magnitude pointed out by the European Commission as the most relevant of the Union, we have preserved in good condition the productive fabric in order to have thus a solid basis on which to support the recovery already from this year. However, it is clear that the damage to the pandemic and the duration are very significant, that we still have very complicated weeks ahead and that we must continue to help businesses, the self-employed, the workers and, ultimately, the citizens and families of our country. That is why the Government has approved this Royal Decree-Law, which provides for an additional EUR 11 billion of public funds to protect and support those companies and sectors most affected by the pandemic that are fundamentally viable. Specifically, the Royal Decree-Law is structured around three new funds. First, a line of €7 billion for direct aid to businesses and self-employed for the payment of fixed costs and debts to suppliers and other financial and non-financial creditors. It is a question of ensuring that aid reaches the economy as a whole and that over-indebtedness is avoided as I have already pointed out. Secondly, a EUR 3 billion line for the Institute of Official Credit to be able to accompany the restructuring processes by financial institutions for publicly-approved loans during 2021 and 2022. And Third, a EUR 1 billion fund managed by Cofides for the recapitalisation of those medium-sized companies and which complements the fund managed by SEPI, which is for larger companies or larger loans. In addition, the fourth pillar of this royal Decree-Law is the extension until the end of the year of the competitive moratoriums and the strengthening of the instruments of agility of justice to give companies a deadline to address the process of recovery and restructuring, always prioritizing the continuity of business activity and without triggering unnecessary processes of destruction of value that can again miss the recovery. In parallel, of course, we are making progress in the necessary modernisation and acceleration of our competition framework in the context of the transposition of the relevant directive. The new line of €7 billion of direct aid to businesses and the self-employed in the sectors most affected by the pandemic has two compartments. The first compartment is EUR 5 billion for all autonomous communities and cities, except the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, to be distributed according to the same criteria applied to the distribution of the ReactEUR funds, which are public, transparent and well known to all of you. As you are well aware, the ReactEUR funds have been distributed among the Member States on the basis of income, unemployment and youth unemployment indicators, and these are the same criteria that we applied last December to the allocation of the 10 billion euros of ReactEUR for 2021 and 2022 among the autonomous communities. Now again in this Royal Decree-Law we apply these same scales to distribute these €5 billion for direct aid to companies, whose specific allocation will be published in the near future, as foreseen by Royal Decree-Law itself. There is a second compartment of EUR 2 billion specific for companies in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, thus taking into account the greatest weight in their economy of the most affected sectors and the lack of differential that the archipelagos have suffered in this pandemic. This impact is evident both in the evolution of your GDP and in the weight of workers in the temporary employment regulation dossier on the total number of workers, as is evident in this graph which I will circulate so that you can all have it and which highlights the need to establish this differential treatment at this time for the Autonomous Communities of the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands. It is about helping those who need it most at the moment, applying public aid fairly and effectively, as we have been doing since the beginning of the pandemic. Under this line of €7 billion, the autonomous communities will be able to grant non-reimbursable finalist aid, which will have to be allocated to the payment of debts contracted since March 2020, such as invoices with suppliers, fixed costs - for example, supplies from these hotels or restaurants - as well as financial and non-financial debts, etc. Aid may be granted to undertakings and self-employed persons whose income has fallen by at least 30 % compared to 2019, within a set of sectors and activities, almost one hundred, which are the most affected by the restrictions. These sectors have been defined according to two national objective criteria: sectors which have more than 10% of their workers still covered by ERTE at the end of February and sectors which have not managed to recover at least 75% of the workers who reached ERTE at the peak of the first wave, i.e. sectors which have not been able to reintegrate that 75% of the workers. This is the case, for example, of activities in the fields of commerce, textiles, passenger transport, hospitality, catering, tourism, cinemas, performing arts, museums and gyms, among others. Of course, we are aware that there are many other sectors and companies that are going wrong, that are going through difficulties, and the Government is very sensitive to their needs. In fact, the analysis of the sectors to be included in the actual decree-law has been made with the data at the close of February, but of course the reality is dynamic and they have, as I have already said publicly, our willingness to assess the expansion of the list of sectors that in the future can meet the requirements set, although of course what we hope is that economic developments will cause fewer and fewer sectors and companies to meet these two requirements that very clearly reflect those sectors that are still most hit by the pandemic today. Under this line, the aid granted may compensate up to 40 % of the additional fall in income for micro- and self-employed people and up to 20 % for the rest of the companies. A fixed amount of EUR 3000 is established for self-employed persons taxing on an objective basis, by modules, and a range of between EUR 4000 and EUR 200,000 for the rest of the companies, with the idea that there is as homogeneous and fair a framework as possible throughout the national territory, since the autonomous communities have already been giving heterogeneous aid to enterprises and self-employed persons in these sectors. The maximum ceilings may be raised in the two communities most severely affected, but always within the limits and in accordance with EU aid control procedures. The objective of this line is clear, to try to anticipate a possible solvency problem in the second part of the year and to try to give muscle to companies so that when the activity resumes, entrepreneurs do not have to devote the flow of income to the payment of past debts, but that they have at their disposal those revenues to hire new workers, to undertake future investments, to improve their facilities, to modernize, to digitalize themselves, etc., that is, they have, as I said, enough muscle to expand their activity and to take full advantage of the recovery. Thus, with this system of finalist aid, although the aid will be allocated to a set of sectors, almost 100, which are the most affected by the crisis, since the resources are going to be devoted to the payment of invoices, fixed costs or leases, among others, liquidity will be achieved to the whole economy. This €7 billion is in addition to the €24 billion that the State has already transferred to the Autonomous Communities between 2020 and 2021 to provide an adequate response to the COVID pandemic. In fact, the Autonomous Communities have already announced their intention to use EUR 2 billion of the React-EU precisely to grant direct aid to businesses and self-employed people in their territories. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law creates a line for the restructuring of the financial debt endowed with EUR 3 billion. It is, as I have already pointed out, that the ICO can accompany the restructuring processes that financial institutions agree with companies during 2021 and 2022 in respect of publicly-approved loans. It is therefore, again, an instrument that anticipates, that advances to possible solvency problems that have not yet been manifested in any of the indicators of lateness that are relevant in the financial field. In particular, this line will be able to act on three levels. Firstly, the maturity dates for loans can be extended in addition to the extension of the default and repayment periods already in place in November, which companies have to apply for before accessing the other types of financial support. The first measure is to provide payment facilities, to extend the deadlines even further than we have done so far. With this royal decree-law we also extended until 31 December 2021 the possibility of applying for guaranteed funding through the ICO's lines of endorsement. A second level of action would include the possibility of converting these loans into participative loans, thus maintaining the coverage of the public guarantee at the same time as strengthening the solvency, the capital of the companies. And a third, exceptional, last resort, level would allow direct transfers to self-employed people and SMEs for the reduction of the main level of funded funding contracted during the pandemic. For the articulation of these measures, a code of good practice similar to that already in place in the mortgage field will be adopted, so that the financial sector and also the other public and private bodies that have granted public-backed financing can cooperate in supporting viable companies with specific over-indebtedness problems. It is a question of ensuring the proper use of public resources and the essential coordination between all creditors so that the process can reach a successful conclusion, in order to prevent unilateral actions by these creditors which, in fact, put the solvency of the companies at risk. Precisely on Tuesday, the European Commission gave us the authorisation of the umbrella framework which covers these new aid mechanisms. Thirdly, the Royal Decree-Law establishes a recapitalisation fund for companies affected by COVID, with EUR 1 billion and which will be managed by Cofides, an agency under the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, with private participation. This fund, which complements SEPI's EUR 10 billion fund for the recapitalisation of larger strategic enterprises, will have different debt, capital and quasi-capital instruments to strengthen the balance sheets of small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, its use involves State participation in the future positive results of companies, as well as an exit strategy, since the temporary nature of the fund is set at eight years. For access to these three new aid lines, companies must justify the continuation of the activity eligible for aid until 30 June 2022 and will not be able to distribute dividends or increase the remuneration of senior management for two years, in addition to the other usual requirements. Finally, the fourth element of this royal decree-law is the extension until the end of the year of the moratoriums for the automatic triggering of the competition processes, in order to give more time to address the process of recovery and restructuring of the various productive sectors. In addition, we maintain until the end of the year the improvements in agility in the competition procedures, and all this in parallel with the accelerated transposition of the Restructuring and Insolvency Directive, which seeks to modernise and speed up the entire competition framework, aiming at the viability of companies through early action and debt restructuring agreements. In addition to these four fundamental pillars, the Royal Decree-Law includes other measures, such as the extension of time limits and cost relief for the repayment of aid and other financing instruments of the General Secretariat of Industry and the SME; the suspension of the payment of interest and depreciation on Entrepreneurship loans; the extension of the right of companies to delay six months without interest tax settlement with the Tax Agency which had to be carried out in the first quarter, i.e. which is also included until April to request this delay; the possibility that companies may continue to hold general meetings or meetings of partners via telematics during 2021; and the enabling of the National Securities Market Commission to regulate the advertising of active cryptic service providers and other assets or similar instruments outside the financial regulation perimeter that are presented as investment assets, as all its lordships are seeing. Ladies and gentlemen, in these complicated weeks that are still ahead of us, it is essential that we do not lower our guard and continue to support businesses, self-employed, SMEs, workers and families in our country until there is a substantial percentage of the population already vaccinated. We have had 12 very hard months of pandemic, from the individual, personal, professional and also from the collective point of view. At the macroeconomic level, our country suffered an abrupt fall in activity, unprecedented in times of peace, especially during the second quarter of last year. That fall was followed by an equally intense recovery, a very intense rebound in the third quarter of the year and a path that has remained positive in the fourth. The beginning of 2021 has so far been marked by a clear slowdown in activity, similar to that experienced by countries in our environment, as a result of the restrictions that have been necessary to cope with the third wave of the pandemic. At this time, the daily activity indicators send mixed signals, consistent with this situation of activity limitation that persists in some autonomous communities. We are at a time of great uncertainty, the evolution of the first quarter will depend on how the month of March is closed. There are some positive signs, such as the departure of workers who are still covered by the temporary employment regulations concerning the peak of this wave, which was reached at the beginning of February. In fact, the updated data shows us that there are 204 000 compatriots who have already left the ERTE since the peak of this third wave, that is, a rate of about 6000 people per working day, and we have already had this positive trend for seven weeks. That is a hopeful sign, but there are still many uncertainties and we have a few hard weeks ahead. That is why we must continue to implement and support this series of measures, ten measures that we have put in place since March last year, to support businesses, self-employed people, employment and the incomes of the families of our country. As far as companies are concerned specifically, and in particular the SMEs and the self-employed in our country, 10 measures are still available, which will remain available during 2021 and which will extend all that is necessary to continue to support our productive fabric: the public guarantee lines; the extension of the deadlines for lack of and return to give greater financial and liquidity to companies; the temporary employment regulation dossiers to pay the wages and social contributions of workers; the extraordinary allowance for self-employed workers; the moratoriums on the payment of taxes and social security contributions without interest; the moratoriums on the return of mortgage and non-mortgage credits and other public credits. From now on, with this royal decree-law, the fund for direct aid can be used, with which to cover outstanding fixed expenses and accumulated debt, a fund that joins those that are available to the autonomous communities through React-EU; we have the fund for restructuring the financial debt of 3000 million and the two solvency funds, SEPI and Cofides, of a total of 11 billion euros. In total, by 2021 we plan to mobilise approximately EUR 29 billion, about 2% of GDP, to continue to provide an adequate health, education and economic response. I would like to thank the constructive work that we have been doing with the various political groups, which have made important and very valuable contributions to the definition of this Royal Decree-Law, because, as I said at the beginning, I believe that this is a collective work. It is a work that we have been developing since March last year, which we will have to continue to develop together in these weeks ahead and I hope that very soon from this rostrum what I can begin to discuss with your ladies and gentlemen is how we will promote recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u33	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u34	Good morning, Madam Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. It will not support the validation of this royal decree-law that you have just explained, because the reality is that the support for corporate solvency after the COVID-19 is reflected in the title but not in the content of late, poor, unequal, partial and also discriminatory measures, as they forget very modest sectors and subsectors that also need emergency support to overcome the socio-economic impact of the pandemic. These are not forms, Madam Vice President. The Government has not had the slightest commitment to use aid funds, such as the one just mentioned by SEPI. On the other hand, it does not have the most modest sectors or squeezes companies that adjusted their employment by the pandemic by forcing them to return tax deductions, which harms family societies. Are you saying that the government is very sensitive? For it is urgent that you Socialists apply sensitivity, for example, in Asturias, where no regulatory corrections have been made, which exacerbates your situation, in contrast to other autonomous communities. It draws attention to the lightness with which this government, which in its self-propaganda defines itself as progress, waters millions of large companies and dubious societies, the style of Plus Ultra, airlines of underground flight, and nevertheless rattles and despises with relief the survival needs of the most humble and autonomous SMEs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u35	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u36	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The measures contained in this decree are certainly positive, but also clearly insufficient. They arrive late and leave out important sectors of the economy and, of course, there is no possibility of adapting to the real needs of the autonomous communities. In our community, as of today, one third of companies - one third - are still fully or partially unemployed. This has a very important impact on Navarra's economy. Last year, 414 companies shut down in our community, and some of them did so through arbitrary measures by both the Government of Spain and the Government of Navarre, because sometimes, on the basis of certain data from the pandemic, certain measures were taken, and sometimes, on the basis of better or equal data, different measures were taken. It is necessary to start putting the scalpel in the economic measures, because, if not, we carry the economy. And measures are being taken that are being demonstrated at some sites in Spain that it was not necessary to take. This lack of leadership and these measures have led us to be the OECD country whose economy has had a greater fall and to the forecasts of the Banco de España or the Funcas panel this week being very far from what the Government has. If this decree is dealt with as a draft law - we will vote in favour - we will ask, first, that the aid can be extended and, secondly, that it be adapted to the economic sectors of the autonomous communities, because each autonomous community has a different economic reality, and here, of the 532 branches of activity, only 98 are envisaged, and they remain outside branches of activity that are important for Navarre as well. There's another important issue, I'm done. There are companies that were set up in 2019 and therefore have very difficult to refer to the 2019 revenue link with the aid. There is no solution to the problem of these companies that were set up in 2019, which in 2020 have had problems due to the pandemic and are left out of any aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u37	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I think that the 11 billion is good news, but of course they are late, because many small businesses in this country have been on the road. Germany and France approved them immediately. After having received continuously from your spokespersons, from you and from other ministers, in the Reconstruction Committee and here, when I said that the Canary Islands had a worse situation and that we had to have the same criteria in Europe, the answer of the same conditions for all the territories, I am glad that today it is recognized that the situation of falling GDP, unemployment and ERTE in the Canary Islands is twice as bad as in the rest of the autonomous communities. I want to tell you two things. I'm glad you're being treated as a bill because I can't agree on two things. The first is the exclusion of certain sectors, because it is not the same on the peninsula as in the Canary Islands. A hairdresser in Lanzarote or Fuerteventura, in the south of Gran Canaria or in Tenerife or an egg farm there, where they only work for the tourism sector, are as they are, and I think we have to adapt the companies. Exclusion, above all, should be a general issue and the one that meets the requirements that you said - falling GDP, ERT and economic situation - can benefit, because there are sectors that are being excluded. The second is that the game has to be expandable. All companies in this country that are in these conditions have to benefit, because, if not, we are going to destroy the business fabric and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. One concern I have: what infrastructure will we have so that SMEs can prepare documentation and have advice? Finally, it is not possible to exclude companies that have debts to Social Security, because there are people who welcomed the ERTE thinking that it was fifteen days or two months, they have had to pay the business share, they have mortgaged their houses and they have continued in ERTE. Payment to social security therefore prevents small businesses from benefiting from economic aid, loans and their aid. I believe that all this must be reconsidered within, of course, the support of my political force. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u39	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u40	Thank you, President. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. Vice President, a decree that everyone expected as May water has become a jar of cold water for the majority. My group has abstained this time; they have left us no choice. It is a decree, like so many others, which regulates a battery of aid with which we can agree; however, direct aid is neither clear nor adapted to the reality of each territory. We have been put by the parliamentary groups in the thesis that we have to position ourselves in a decree before the disjunctive of everything or nothing. Some will vote in favour today because it is better to get something than nothing, even if it is little and late; this I call resignation. Today they are going to make it the responsibility for whether or not there is a battery of aid in the parliamentary groups. It is a decree that has not been agreed or negotiated. In fact, even its government partners have thought about it and they seem to be going to amend it. I recognize, Vice-President, that there was a part of the decree that we knew, and with which we more or less agreed, however, the measure that is supposed to be a star, the direct aid, we did not know it, we knew it the afternoon before it was adopted in the Council of Ministers and orally. We therefore have no room even to make proposals or to show doubts or even to negotiate something. Was it so hard to wait another week and arrive, perhaps, with a much more consensual decree, much more negotiated and adapted to the reality of the territories? It is a decree in which co-governance, in our view, shines for its absence. They have defined the allocation criteria for the autonomous communities, set the conditions that the beneficiaries must meet and have even limited the amounts and, in addition, have told us to which sectors of the activity to be allocated. In this type of action, it is where we see its meaning of co-governance, and it is that the Government defines, determines and decides and it is the autonomous communities that have to manage in a subsidiary way. In colloquial language, we could say that it is: I govern, I like it, but you, autonomous community, eat it whether you like it or not. It is a decree that is neither effective nor efficient. We have said this many times as active and passive: this crisis has not affected all sectors alike, but differently in each of the autonomous communities. That is why we believe that we must respond to that specificity, to the weight and impact of economic activities in the different territories and to the very capacities of those territories and economic sectors to move forward, to refocus. You've told us two things today. Yes, objective criteria have been used to treat all Spaniards equally, but equality is not to give the same answer to situations that are different and also to expect the same result. The selection criterion, in our view, should not be based on the principle of equality, but on the principle of equity. [[The lady]] They have used an objective criterion of selection of the sectors taking into account the whole of the Spanish territory - it has spoken of the percentage of the ERTE - and there lies the problem, since they do not take into account the specificity of the sectors in each autonomous community. This means, on the one hand, that in certain autonomous communities there are activities that remain out despite having a significant fall in activity and are relevant to that territory and, on the other hand, that there are activities that can be double-subsidized because they are listed in the annex to this decree and in turn have obtained support from the autonomous communities and municipalities, as is the case in Euskadi, while other activities remain out, because there are already communities that have established direct aid. On the other hand, they have failed to take account of the out-of-court schemes or, at best, they do not know the out-of-court tax rules, because, Madam Vice-President, when they talk about the recipients and requirements of direct aid they are based on the objective estimation scheme, and it happens that neither in Vizcaya nor in Álava nor in Guipúzcoa does this scheme apply, which has been repealed but that of direct estimation. In addition, when they talk about falling billing or who is not beneficiary, they use the tax base criterion, and it turns out that neither in Vizcaya nor in Álava nor in Guipúzcoa we use this criterion, but the liquidated base criterion. So can you explain how we do it, how we apply the criteria and grant the aid? In Euskadi, both the Basque Government and the deputies and municipalities have granted direct aid. Do you know how long it has taken to implement, manage and pay for them, despite having all the economic data and all the information of the companies? Six months. You are forcing us to implement and implement all the aid by the end of the year, all without taking into account the number of companies and their circumstances to be supported in each territory. That's a lot of paperwork we've got. The corporal. When there are problems or they do not all have them with regard to the approval of the decrees, they tell us that we do not worry, that we support them and that then we go to the procedure of amendments, that everything will be fixed there, but you know?, we no longer believe it, because all the procedures of amendments are paralyzed and, moreover, in this particular case we believe that they do not serve, because the deadlines of management, as I have said, are very short. The autonomous communities have to make the calls, as he says, for yesterday, and any modification a posteriori can lead to complications. What if the calls are made and then the activities are expanded? What if, by chance, the aid was granted and then, in the course of the amendments, the sectors were enlarged without increasing the amounts? Have you thought about the consequences this could have? For you, of course, none. The problem would be once again for the autonomous communities. I was saying it yesterday. Efficiency and efficiency are two key concepts in the economic sphere and relate to the way in which companies or organizations use the resources they have to carry out their activities, concepts that sometimes in politics seem not to have just cooked up and less with these kinds of actions. A country, a region that is unable to take advantage of the potential of good governance, loses opportunities. That is why, indeed, Vice-President, if you want our support, call, listen and talk with the autonomous meals and truly agree on the measures not to lose any more opportunities. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. One year, twelve months we have had to wait to see how the first direct aid on the crisis of the coronavirus is approved; one year of closed companies, of ERTE, of restrictions; one year where our self-employed, our entrepreneurs, where the workers have suffered more than they had ever imagined. A year. My parliamentary group, Citizens, has been demanding the direct aid model since the autumn of last year, long before the third wave drags us. You will recall that we put this direct liquidity aid as a condition for the approval of the general state budgets for 2021; a condition that, if the government had agreed with us, it would probably have already given three months of oxygen to our small and medium-sized enterprises and our self-employed, but you voted not to. What they bring us today is a package of EUR 11 billion, of which EUR 7 billion is direct aid. Good, but insufficient. Even the Banco de España figures the current need at 20 billion. My group has proposed in one of the amendments that 7 billion aid should be provided before the third wave. According to our current estimates, today we would need more than 11 billion dollars in direct aid alone. Our companies, our autonomous, all the Spaniards are demanding, ladies and gentlemen, that we rise to the level, and the level of the crisis we are facing does not allow us to walk with half inks. Moreover, when we go down to the small letter of the royal decree we are even more in doubt, as has already been said here by some parliamentary group. According to the Axesor consultant, the Tax Agency and the CEOE data only one in 12 companies will be able to obtain the aid. This creates doubts for us, but not only for those sectors that can be left out of this aid - in principle, aid would only be available for ninety-five sectors - but also because we see that the distribution system is clearly ineffective. A few days ago Mrs Montero explained to us that once this Royal Decree-Law is passed, she will have a month to transfer the money to the autonomous governments, which will ultimately be responsible for distributing the aid. A process involving the signing of bilateral agreements between all self-governments and the central Government, which will only begin after those signatures. In short, what Mrs Montero came to say is that, at best, this direct aid will not begin until the summer. Summer. See what it is, June or September? It would be good to know, because perhaps your government ladies and gentlemen want the arrival of aid to coincide with the first anniversary of that announcement by the President from Moncloa that we have defeated the virus. Indeed, we believe that with these deadlines, ladies and gentlemen, we run the risk that this direct aid will become a further failure at the level of minimum living income. In addition, many of their concerns have also been brought to our attention from the various autonomous communities. These 7 billion direct aid will be divided into two main headings: one of 2 billion for the islands, for the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, and another of 5 billion for the rest of Spain. It seems to us very good that account has been taken of the criterion of insularity and the special way in which the crisis affects our islands. However, we believe that the criteria for distribution in the peninsular territory do not take into account other very important factors such as, for example, the structure of the productive tissue in each autonomous community. From our point of view, the best method of distribution would have been for the central administration to have made this allocation and for it to have been done not according to the React EU criteria, but seeing the impact on employment and the impact on income. We are also concerned that this distribution will eventually create regional asymmetry, as has also been said here, because the way in which the aid is to be distributed does not guarantee that companies in the same situation will have access to the same aid, because in the end it will depend on the autonomous community in which it is to be distributed and on the total of the funds that can be distributed. In other words, under the same conditions, companies in different autonomous communities may not have access to the same aid. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with insufficient measures which create many doubts, and we will therefore vote for abstention from this royal decree. It's true they listen to us, but they always do it in discount time, Vice President. In Citizens we ask you to dare to design courageous plans, which really answer the problems of the Spanish in time and form. We are facing the greatest challenge of our generation and we have an obligation to face it as such. They know that we are reaching out to them to address sensible and useful measures, as well as they know that we will not support insufficient plans that only postpone the disaster. Vice President, one last thing. You have spoken from this rostrum of measures put in place and of the enormous effort that this House, the Spanish State, has made to help in this health crisis, but you also know that in this year 2021 the main and best economic policy that we can adopt is to vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u44	Thank you, Madam President. The government has announced late, but on a flat-rate basis, a plan for aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed, absolutely necessary and that it has generated many expectations, but that in the end it remains basically to distribute EUR 5 billion, because 30% of the billion is allocated only to two communities for direct aid, to pay debts, not to compensate for losses, as would be logical, and that moreover, according to the criteria of distribution, once again harm Galicia. Prioritizing those communities that had a greater loss in the past year, taking care of GDP or unemployment, is fine, but it is that Galicia was already in a critical situation before the COVID, with a rampant industrial crisis, closure of companies, demographic crisis and migration, so that certain indicators do not suffer as much alteration as other communities and, therefore, curiously, will be penalized. I mean, since we were already worse, we were punished again. Moreover, as I said, we do not understand that the basic criterion of aid is debt and not to have losses, or that certain activities are excluded according to the CNAE, even if it meets the requirements of keeping debts alive. We also see with concern the continuation of the line of loans to extend the moratoriums, which will temporarily ease and delay the inevitable, if SMEs and self-employed continue to receive no income. Finally, they require credit institutions to adhere to a code of good practice, as in many cases they do business by obliging them to hire other financial products along with the credit line. If they bet - as the BNG defends - to equip the ICO with the necessary means to make it a public bank, these problems would not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u46	Thank you, President. Minister, we are going to vote against this aid, although this is an absolutely urgent matter, as we are talking about half a million small and medium-sized enterprises at risk of insolvency and more than 40% of the productive fabric in the same circumstances. However, it is late and we find it incomprehensible that the Government is resisting the application of direct aid. It seems incomprehensible to us that, in our environment, countries with less dependence than our country on tourism, hospitality, etc., applied this direct aid package a long time ago, which was essential for the loss of income. It is true that the funds implemented by the autonomous communities that have had a different degree of commitment are added to this fund. It is true that some have had a special commitment to direct aid to these sectors in their territories, and it is true that others - despite the suffocations that arise here - have made zero efforts, such as the Madrid Community: zero direct and effortless aid. All that is true, but it is very important that some issues be corrected. We will mention three of our particular concerns: firstly, the guarantees of agile, coordinated and affordable management; secondly, more sectors subjectively linked to the territories; and thirdly, ex post controls linked to employment and the stability of businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u48	Thank you, President. Vice-President, we abstained, and we did so out of responsibility, because there were issues that, if this royal decree was not validated, would not be remedied: the competition issues, the April tax deferrals and the issue of junta upgrading. That being said, direct aid to self-employed people and SMEs is absolutely disappointing to us. We do not agree and they did not want to negotiate the possibilities of cure. They arrive late - not very late, late - they are absolutely insufficient -50 billion direct aid for all the peninsular autonomous communities is absolutely insufficient - and what we find more serious is that they leave out certain sectors that, from our perspective - at least from Catalonia - are absolutely incomprehensible because some activities have not had a reduction of 30%, but of 40% and 50%: sectors of retail trade, cosmetics, flowers, bookstores, sectors of unregulated educational activities, sectors of activities of lleure, leisure activities. And why do they leave them out? Because you have a very centralist view of what the Spanish State is. In order to determine which sectors enter or which sectors do not enter, global data are collected from all over the State, obviating that the measures taken to combat the pandemic of closure or restriction of activities have not been taken homogeneously throughout the Spanish State, because this has been decentralized by the autonomous communities. Each autonomous community has taken different measures, thus affecting different sectors of activity. On the other hand, when it comes to distributing aid, you homogenize it. I am not going to make the demagogy - or not demagogy - of comparing the 3000 euros that each self-employed person will receive with the amounts that he has been able to receive per worker certain company, minister, but I must tell you that we do not agree with the approach. We had offered them the opportunity to negotiate, once the royal decree-law had been passed. You commented on where you wanted to go and on a subject you did not give us anything, as were the direct aid to the self-employed and the SMEs. Perhaps it was because they were agreeing within the Government, but that was not negotiated with the groups. We had asked them, apart from increasing funds, to include more activities or, more importantly, that each autonomous community could have set out what activities they understood should receive aid, because some have already proposed aid before and others have different sectors of activity. The problem is that they don't have a conception - they don't say it anymore - of co-governance, federal, or decentralized. They have the perception that the autonomous communities are mere managers who cannot decide anything at all, and that is a very serious mistake; but not a mistake of concept of state, but a mistake that will be paid by small and medium-sized enterprises. If processing as a bill in some royal decree-law makes no sense is in this, because you are asking that before the end of the year the funds be allocated.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u49	Mr. Bel, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u50	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u51	No, no, you have to finish now, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u52	And by the end of the year, this process will not be over. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u54	Good morning, Madam President. As you will know, today is Dante Di, Dante's Day, a world commemoration of this global poet. Thinking particularly of Joan Josep Nuet, in prisoners, in exiles, in almost 3000 reprisals, comes to quote. Two hotter places than hell are reserved for those who in times of great moral crisis maintain their neutrality. Please note those who are silent in the face of judicial repression against the will of the Catalans for democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]] As for the real decree that - forgive me - you have so badly defended, Madam Vice-President, that you have at the moment called for the unanimity of the House, I must say that we will vote yes, but only out of responsibility for the real economy of SMEs and self-employed people. From now on I will tell you why you deserved a no: for bad, clumsy, rampant, presumptuous and nothing dialogue, even if you say otherwise, at least with us, that at the end of the day, we are also part of those who sought the change of government. He's late and bad, he's already told you. It comes a year later, nothing more or less, from the start of the crisis and after pressure from all sides; after a report from the European Central Bank which left them behind in Europe, whether it is a question of comparing the aid granted; of pressure from within the parties of the government coalition; of pressure from business associations and a long time ago. While the Spanish Government was waiving its responsibilities, it has had to be other public administrations that have been adopting direct compensation measures, which are what the sectors need. For example, during the month of January the Government of the Generalitat approved a new package of direct compensations for groups of sectors most affected by COVID worth 618 million in the first quarter of 2021, a new injection of resources that adds to the disbursements at the end of last year, without so many larcas and without so much complacency. The measures seem to us to be very urgent; they were urgent and were already necessary. However, we believe that the limitation of aid to certain sectors derives from unfair treatment in the face of equivalent situations. It is not justified either in the preamble or in any article of the normative provision that might lead to the intention of pointing out only some sectors. On the other hand, we do not know the ex ante evaluation it has carried out and the target population that has been estimated to be able to meet the conditions for access to aid. We believe that it is not negligible that the level of coverage of the direct aid mechanism is insufficient to cover all applications. And your speech hasn't taken us away from that idea, unfortunately. The requirements for access to direct aid? Very improveable. Thousands of professionals who have suffered the consequences of health restrictions will be left out. That is why it was necessary for this distribution not to be made on the basis of a closed list of activities, because we must assess that many of them can be affected indirectly, and so happens what happens and is sure to be well aware of it. This is just a sample. You have also taught an illegible thing from the rostrum, for I have here four or five leaflets full of activities excluded from Annex I of the Royal Decree-Law. [[shows a document]] They are in your favour that you have stated that you are very sensitive to your needs, but I think that letter does not accept it at the banks, minister. And what's at stake is that you have the nerve to talk about modernising these companies. Who doesn't know how to pay four payrolls at the end of the month, do you want to talk about modernization? On the other hand, they leave out all companies that registered losses in 2019. You have not taken any examples from Italy, which only takes into account the billing criterion. Well, look, this seems to me very little startup friendly. It's totally unfair. For companies that may be startups that were just starting their business, even if they were fully viable, the pandemic has imposed a stoppage on them in their business. Don't you always take out the banner of entrepreneurship that supports startups? Finally, on the 1000 million Solvency Fund that will manage Cofides - the son of the wind too - we have already commented to you during yesterday's debate that you are staying far away, Vice-President. It contrasts this amount especially if we compare it with the EUR 10 billion fund for large companies, approved in July last year. We already told them at the time that we were demanding a SME solvency fund that was at least the same amount, but we stayed at 7 billion. In conclusion, we welcome the extension of the moratorium to tender for creditors in complicated times. Understand the ironic tone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u55	Mr. Capdevila, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u56	I'll be right there. I suppose after they put the competition directive also by the democratic system of the Royal Decree-Law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and especially good morning to those working in the economic sectors most affected by the restrictions. We live in a time when good news is scarce and we have become accustomed to being beaten. That is why, when we are faced with good news, it is mandatory to celebrate it and that is the first thing I want to do. While the right and the right give the show in Murcia, Castile and León and Madrid, today the coalition government brings to this Congress no less than €7 billion in direct aid for hospitality, tourism, small business and other sectors affected by the restrictions. That's good news. It is good news that the Spanish Government is doing quite the opposite of what Ayuso is doing in Madrid, which is the only autonomous community that has not given a small euro in direct aid. Socialcommunist government: EUR 7 billion; Help: EUR zero. [[Applauds]] That's right, then he goes to an event with hoteliers and tells them he loves them very much, but his only recipe to help these businesses has been from the beginning to go against health recommendations and put at risk the health of the Madridans and also of the Spanish as a whole. With the worst numbers of contagions on the whole of the peninsula, the highest ratios of occupancy of hospital beds and also of killing, with the epidemic resuming in Europe and while Paris is taking more restrictive measures, Ayuso's only recipe to help the hospitality industry has been to invite tens of thousands of French people to come and get drunk without a mask. Yesterday we knew that in February Madrid went from being the third arrival community of foreign tourists to being the first in Spain, with the worst epidemic indicators in the country. It's Trump and Bolsonaro's strategy: tax gifts to the millionaires, no direct help and a lot of freedom; that's right, freedom to spread. By the way, several economic indicators from the Community of Madrid were published this Monday, almost all of them in the state average. Come on, having more infected and more dead has served no purpose. Ayuso has made us choose between health and economics and we have run out of both. And while the Community of Madrid is the only one in all of Spain that has not approved a meserious direct aid plan, the Socialcommunist Government arrives and puts on the table 7 billion, and within five minutes Ayuso comes out and announces a ghost plan without deadlines or budget. In short, and said in the form of Miguel Ángel Rodríguez's campaign slogan for five-year-olds, it would be something like: communism or freedom to spread and ghost help. Faced with fiscal dumping and health irresponsibility, which puts the whole of Spain at risk because of Ayuso, today we are debating a real decree that does what needs to be done, helping the sectors that have been asked to make a greater effort. And it has not been easy to get here and the royal decree is not perfect, but today we must celebrate the decision of the Government. It has not been easy to get here, basically because the intense debate that has always been repeated within the coalition government has been repeated: on the one hand, those within the government who want to return as soon as possible to the evil so-called austerity and fear of any increase in public investment, even if this is indispensable to help people and even if they are doing nothing Bolshevik and indeed mother founder of austerity, Angela Merkel, or the socialcommunist nothing and indeed former black man Mario Draghi, and, on the other hand, those heads within the government that we insist that austerity was not only cruel to the weakest, but also a failed economic prescription; that the measures that protect SMEs, self-employed people and working families not only give vital security to millions of compatriots, but also stimulate internal consumption, which is the first engine in economies like ours, are highly intensive in creating employment and have high rates of return to state income. United We can defend from the beginning the need to approve direct aid, but this does not go from who wins or who loses a debate within the government, this goes from the people of our country to win in security and perspective for the future, that is the most important thing today. Finally, as I said, this royal decree, even if it is a very good news, is not perfect; none is. In this case, our parliamentary group thinks that changes must be made, for example to ensure that most of the aid goes to SMEs and self-employed and not to large corporations; also, to remove from the list of beneficiaries to parasitic sectors such as bookmakers and, of course, to add some sectors that are missing, or, for example, to relax, in the case of SMEs and self-employed, the criterion too strict and that it has already been mentioned that they have not had losses in 2019. We will put these proposals into parliamentary procedure and today we will vote in favour of validating this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u60	Thank you. Echenique just talked about the show. Once again, the pitiful spectacle you do with your incongruity, your lies and your constant attacks. Minister, today you are talking about aid, something we have been claiming in VOX since the beginning of the pandemic and something that the Banco de España, Fedea and the companies themselves also say to you, and you know you're late. Today he talks about responsible measures, and he knows very well that they are scarce and that they abandon many. It says prevent structural damage. To prevent a year later? It claims to preserve the productive tissue. Let them tell the hundreds of thousands of companies that have already closed. He says he's helping the most affected by the pandemic. And forget about many. One year after the first state of alarm, this decree-law is published. This year many companies and self-employed have suffered from prohibitions, restrictions, curfews, perimeter closures. We've seen deserted streets and empty businesses. And the disastrous politics of this government, more concerned with the power and the armchairs than to solve the lives of the Spaniards, has condemned hundreds of thousands of compatriots to despair, ruin and misery, because they have had to close their business, because they do not know where they are going to get the money to pay the debts, when they are going to collect the ERTE, if they will fire them or what they are going to do when the unemployment is over. [[applause]] We only need to look after the press: Spain in the tail van of Europe in direct aid. Italy, France and Portugal in May; we are debating today; seven times less than other competing countries in Spain. Another headline: Unemployment and underemployment reach 28.4% and affect 6.8 million people. There is no make-up that can hide the unemployment of millions of workers, no matter how much they want to sell the Minister of Labour's kindnesses or how much they bring us false decrees today. We said this a year ago in our Plan Protect Spain: employment and liquidity; we have reiterated it in the thousands of initiatives registered by VOX, one of the last calls on the government to commit itself to helping all entrepreneurs and self-employed people to whom you have expropriated the right to work. A year later - I said - this decree-law was published, the announced 11 billion euros in which the Spaniards believed they were going to receive direct aid. And what do they find? A small letter which does not grant the necessary liquidity; an insufficient rule, which already knows that it is late and bad, which generates inequalities, which excludes and establishes so many conditions that will make it virtually impossible to access aid. And VOX is going to vote no, and I'm going to explain to you in a very simple way why. Of 11 billion, 7000 direct aid. Of the 7000, 2000 for two autonomous communities and 5000 for the rest of Spain. And today it justifies it with a graph. Take a stroll through the streets of Malaga and see all the establishments closed; through Malaga, Madrid or the rest of the provinces of Spain. [[Applauds]] They talk of agility in aid that comes late and that moreover, as they are going to be transferred to the autonomous communities, forty days and again chaos. Let us see some requirements for aid: to have losses of at least 30% in 2020. And what about those who have less losses, but who have also been harmed by the pandemic? Another requirement: to maintain the activity until June 2022. And how are they going to do that? Because this government, which generates uncertainty - because vaccines do not arrive, there are closures and prohibitions, changes in the regulations, ERTE which is not known if they will be extended - does not give them stability, and stability and certainty are key to maintaining activity. Another requirement: to be aware of payments in Finance and Social Security. Do you know that, with the low income you have, many prefer to pay their suppliers, payrolls or even advance to the workers those ERTE that they do not charge? Because the ERTEs don't charge and they're even passing on to workers in this house. Another requirement is that they are in the CNAE codes detailed in the annex, and you know that they are only 95 out of 538. What's this supposed to mean? Those not included do not opt for aid: the footwear sector, the goods sector, hairdressers and aesthetic centres, souvenir shops, self-schools, regulated educational establishments. You see, they discriminate again. VOX has urged the Government to include hairdressers, beauty centres, regulated educational centres, self-schools and souvenir shops, and to promote all actions necessary to establish a national direct aid plan for all self-employed and entrepreneurs affected by the pandemic, because it is about saving businesses, employment, and it is about protecting the productive fabric, building. [[Applauds]] And because if they're not able to create jobs, at least don't destroy them. We vote that it is not because they abandon many, but rather because they are trying to correct this injustice, because all work is essential and because social employment is the best policy. This is not the compensation that the Spaniards deserve, and the facilities of PP to PSOE are not explained in a 'Moncloa Productions', in a plan that does not help the productive tissue. They try to keep quiet with this decree, but they must know that we will continue to denounce their corruption, the millions of euros for these strategic Venezuelan companies, their friendly companies, their official cars, their Moncloa makeup or sterile ministries. We're going to fight all your lies and trill games, your fingers and decrees, your tax hikes. And we will continue to raise our voice strongly, loud and clear, from the rostrum, in the Commissions, through our work and through our initiatives, because it is the voice of our SMEs, traders, hoteliers, travel agencies, self-employed, workers and unemployed to whom their policies suffocate. [[Applauds]] And they won't shut us up; they won't shut us down for as long as they sometimes turn off our microphone. We will not support a decree-law that condemns to ruin many businesses and autonomous and that forgets those to whom they have left behind. Minister, you didn't know anything about this marketing product; you didn't know anything, you got it out of the joker Mr Sánchez and you don't look anything like the real packages of help from other countries, and you don't strengthen the solvency or capital of companies. So, Mrs. Calviño, I hope you can do a little better; a little better. Ladies and gentlemen - everyone else - we do not understand how, with your abstention or your vote in favour, you once again support 'Producciones Moncloa' in a plan that hurts Spanish businesses, self-employed people and workers with death. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u62	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, coming to use the rostrum to campaign is intolerable. Mr Echenique has come and lied; Madrid last year gave 150 million euros of direct aid to companies damaged by the pandemic and has open calls and is waiting to cover the holes that this royal decree-law leaves behind. [[applause]] And it is intolerable to say that the only help is freedom to infect. We are going through a tremendous pandemic, with very serious effects on society, and there is no right to use the rostrum for this. Excuse me. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have already abstained from this royal decree-law, and we have done so out of responsibility, so that it can go forward so that we can treat it as a rule with a law rank to cover all those deficits that the various spokesmen of different groups have been raising in this rostrum. It's true he's late. We have been asking for it for a year; we have been seeing what the countries of our environment are doing for a year, but here it is, very calmly, with an announcement by the President of the Government, with three weeks in the middle and with a very complicated procedure for it to be carried out. We cannot vote in favour - we have not been able - because, by defining what situations of need - many have said this here - you allocate an amount that may or may not be sufficient. We cannot vote in favour because you determine a closed perimeter of beneficiaries that leaves many companies out without any justification. I mean, we can't do it because we're faced with a double restriction that matches badly with the goal that it says it has the royal decree-law. Once again, you are showing us how you drag your feet, despite what you say, Vice-President, to help businesses. You talk about vulnerability and you don't want to realize - perhaps, you don't care - that what really matters is a society of free people, and freedom gives it the independence that it means to use for itself. But for that we must have a job, which can only contribute, in a sustainable way, our businesses, small, medium and large. It has already been said here, 11 billion in three blocks, 7000 direct aid, 5000 for the autonomous communities, peninsulars and autonomous cities, to be distributed according to the criteria used in the REACT-EU, i.e. by income, unemployment and youth employment. You have decided that the management of the aid should be done through the Autonomous Communities and that is why you have laid down this criterion of distribution. This is the third reason why we cannot vote in favour of validation. On the one hand, the criterion is based on macroeconomic indicators, but, on the other hand, they clearly determine who the beneficiaries, the companies, and what requirements and amounts they can receive, and even come to collect that if there are any funds left, they must be returned to the Public Treasury. What if they don't get there? Does the lack have to be covered by the Territorial Administration with its budget or can companies be of different status depending on the community in which they are? As I said, the procedure is very complicated, as it assigns important responsibilities to the communities, but it has not been the subject of consultation or debate with them. You know that the credit has been shifting between the Ministry of Finance and section 37, territorial administrations, and in the end you have decided to decentralize management under the formula of specific agreements, but with the other actors of the agreements you have not had the slightest negotiation, neither for the procedure itself, nor for the criteria of distribution. Madam Vice-President, they have established in the Royal Decree-Law a very long and difficult management procedure, which will fall into the autonomous communities. It is understood that they do not want to finance zombie companies, that the best thing that can happen to them is to liquidate and start from scratch, but that is not arranged by forcing the autonomous communities to check invoice bills to see if they are compensable. I propose to you - I have already told you that we are going to make proposals - to resolve the problem of excluded companies by eliminating Annex 1. Anyone who meets the requirements they demand, regardless of the sector in which they operate, has been affected by the pandemic. And give the credit with which the aid is financed the status of extendable; they are window aid for subjective issues. I already know it's expensive, but all this has for everyone an invoice that will be much bigger if companies die along the way. Moreover, if the credit is extendable, the problem of territorial distribution will be resolved, since the deliveries to the communities would be taken into account, pending the final settlement of the aid actually granted. And simplify the concession procedure with prior consultation with the Autonomous Communities. Absolute safety does not exist and is also asymptotic at cost; that is, it must be taken into account to arrive at the most appropriate solution, and the solution they adopt is not. Perhaps that's why, in the end, they decided to decentralize management: eyes they don't see, heart they don't feel. I don't have much more time and that's why I'm not going to go deeper into the remaining two funds, I just want to ask you to make the Cofides' actions transparent and impeccable and not lead to suspicious operations, like the one recently approved by SEPI in relation to the Plus Ultra airline. I hope that the Socialist spokesman, who is going to come up to the rostrum next, will not also be put in the electoral code and do what the President of the Government did this weekend: lie. Madrid will not harm its companies by 600 million. We only hope, truly, that being Madrid does not imply discrimination, once again, on the part of the Government, of which you are the spokesman today. [[applause]] Because that is what this royal decree-law is about, if you have also said it: to help all our companies overcome this very long period of restrictions on mobility, not to disappear further along the way and that when this is over they can all return to the pre-pandemic situation as soon as possible. That is why, in order to be more effective and efficient, we ask you to make the changes I have made in my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Soler Mur has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u64	Madam President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it is hard to be an opposition. This is an extraordinary measure for the country, for many companies, for many self-employed, a measure that you have been asking for for a long time, and you have to stand up and look for elements to criticize. Mrs Rodríguez, you say: do not put the Socialist spokesman in the plan of elections. You live on elections asking for resignations from the zero minute! From the minute zero you live in an electoral campaign; since we have constituted this government. [[Applauds]] Look, EUR 11 billion, a very important aid that will allow the solvency and continuity of many companies, many activities and many jobs. The Vice-President has commented on this, aid from EUR 3000 to which they tax in objective estimates, from EUR 4000 to EUR 200 000 to which they have a direct estimate, aid to pay fixed costs, aid which will allow not only the companies in the CNAE, in that annex, to benefit, but also many others which are not included to receive payments from those which are actually being paid. The aid will therefore reach a large number of businesses and self-employed people in this country. Loans are also allowed to be extended, which can be returned later. They are also allowed to become participative loans and the Government may, in some cases, even reduce the principal of the debt, in others it will form part of the capital, it will be possible to enter with capital through Cofides. In short, an extraordinary measure that has no precedent in this country, and you say it is insufficient. Look, when this measure comes, the government has been helping the businesses and self-employed in this country from the zero minute; 3,600,000 people have been in an ERT to which the government has contributed. Also, 1.5 million self-employed people have benefited from aid and a benefit thanks to the Government, €55 billion. Also, social security contributions have been exempted, EUR 26 billion; direct aid. Those aids are discreet. One million operations through the ICO, 122 billion. Isn't all this help? Did we get here with this package now? No, it's just that the government doesn't stop from the beginning. Deferral of tax debts, rent subsidies, all kinds of moratoriums. It hasn't stopped since the zero minute! And you say we're coming with this help plan now! This aid plan is another element of the net, which the government has woven to support businesses and self-employed, which has not stopped since the zero minute of the pandemic. It hasn't stopped! [[Applauds]] You were talking about the European Union. Firstly, they need to know that the aid network is 20% of the country's GDP, economic support to the country at an unprecedented time of difficulty. But direct aid accounts for 7.3%. Do you know the average of the European Union? 3.3%. Do you know what France has put on? 6.4%. Italy, 6% of GDP in European aid. We, 7.3%, far above all and above the average. That doesn't sound like much to you! But it is also that the autonomous communities have been given 24 billion, first 16,000 and then 8000. What have some of us done? I know mine, the Valencian, the Resist Plan, 400 million for businesses and self-employed. I know it bothers you, but if we talk about Madrid - let's say I'm talking about Madrid - and about the 150 million that you say, we don't know that that's come anywhere. We know that Mrs Ayuso, after calling elections at this time of pandemic for a pure political and electoral interest - that is electoral interest - has announced an aid plan a week ago. Last week he announced it. Now. I think that's a little late. I think he's pretty late. In addition, they have to take into account, in relation to this type of aid announced by the Government, that the Vice-President herself has said that she is open to improving them, to taking into account any requests and to taking into account that other sectors may be involved in these objective causes on the basis of the workers who remain at ERTE, which has been the criterion used by the Government, in order to be able to incorporate more people and more companies. The Government has certainly made a great effort. The government is certainly doing everything possible and helping where you do not help. And it's just that I, ladies and gentlemen, feel like we're doing what we're doing to you, it's not going to be okay. When this pandemic began, which we trusted late; when we distrust, we distrust soon; when we exercise the power and control of all government action, which we are centralizing; when we gave responsibility to the autonomies, which we were leaving behind. Isn't it going to be that you don't like what the government does, but what you don't like is that the PSOE is in the government? Isn't that gonna be it? [[Applauds]] For I have to tell you that, despite you, the government will continue to make an effort; it will continue to work, it will continue to implement measures for the self-employed and for businesses, it will continue to weave the largest social and economic network that is being launched throughout the European Union, the best country, and we will continue to fight, fighting the pandemic and speed up the vaccination process, which is the most important step that can be taken at this time. Look, the Socialist Party is in the government, mainly because the citizens of this country, freely, although you would like us not to govern - VOX probably would like us not to exist - have decided that the Socialist Party is in the government and have decided it because, above all, socialism is freedom. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Soler. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u66	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the draft law adopting measures for the reduction of the gender gap and other matters in the areas of social and economic security. Proceeding from Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Almost good afternoon already - for a minute - ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend the amendment to the whole of my group's proposal for a law on measures to reduce the gender gap and other matters in the areas of social and economic security, coming from Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February, and I am convinced that we are before another law on the part of the Government. We are faced with a new recognition on the part of our Government that all the royal decrees that preceded the one that today have already brought to the House turned into a bill - as I said to them - were a real shambles. Otherwise, it is not explained that they use this project as a tailor's drawer in which they introduce subjects as distant and uneven as pensions, loans to families, self-employed persons and businesses, subjects linked to health professionals or even minimum living income. A cocktail law that they use to rectify past mistakes that we have already warned them that they were committing without realizing - or rather regardless of them - that the Spaniards were the main ones harmed by those mistakes. And this happens no more or less because they do not work for the well-being of the Spaniards; they are only dedicated to trying to overthrow the legitimate governments of the People's Party and of course also to protect their armchairs. In addition - and I urge you - the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled the amendment as a whole because we are not only faced with a law that is coddling, but also with a law that is cheating. Because with the justification of adapting the Social Security Act to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 12 December 2019, you do what you do is to unfairly cut the pensions of working mothers; that is, to disguise a tijeretazo to the pensions with a goal that is - in your opinion because neither do you get it - to eliminate the gap in pensions. The Court of Justice of the European Union only established that article 60 of the General Law on Social Security was contrary to the principle of equal treatment between men and women in matters of social security, in the sense that the Government of the People's Party only included working women, working mothers, as beneficiaries of the right to receive a pension supplement. I mean, the court was only limited to that. The Court of Justice of the European Union in no case obliges you to modify the system of defining the amount of the pension for working mothers, something which you with the alibi of adjusting the law to the judgment - as I told you - do and what you get is to cut that pension. This law, therefore, has a perverse effect that we intend to amend with the amendment to the whole because, as it is drafted, it not only eliminates the gender gap in pensions, but the effect it produces is to cut, as I said, women's pensions. This is because they do not respect the principle of contribution, that is, the right we all have - also, and above all, women - to receive a pension according to what we have contributed to the system. The People's Parliamentary Group - as it has always done - calls for and defends the elimination of the gender gap in pensions. A gap, which according to the latest data published by Social Security corresponding to the payroll of contributory pensions in February of the same year, exceeds 30%. Women on average receive a pension of 826 euros compared to the 1250 euros that men charge; that is, a Spanish woman earns on average 424 euros less pension than a man. This gap is clearly rooted in a number of reasons. Firstly, in the shortest contributory career or what is the same as women's work intermittence. Secondly, we receive lower wages because we work in professions that are traditionally or mostly linked to sectors with lower wages. And thirdly, because we are obliged to opt in many cases for part-time contracts to reconcile family life with working life. In short, because we contribute less, we receive less pension. The Government of Spain of the People's Party took the first step to eliminate the gender gap in pensions through a measure that had never been implemented before in Spain, such as the approval of a supplement to the pensions of working mothers with two, three and four or more children of 5, 10 and 15% respectively. Today we are talking about pensions again, and today the People's Party is defending the right to a decent pension for working mothers. Our amendment to the whole revolves around five fundamental axes. The first, we expand the complement so that mothers or parents with one child can also perceive it. It was, moreover, a commitment of the People's Party in the last general elections, and our president, Pablo Casado, incorporated it into his programme of government and, today, we incorporate it into this amendment as a whole. Secondly, we comply with the judgment of 12 December 2019, and regulate the possibility that the two parents, the father and the mother, may be beneficiaries provided that the father certifies injury in their contribution career on the occasion of the birth or adoption of their children. I think it is important to stress that the right to receive supplementation will always be granted to women when they do not apply for and recognize it in favour of men, that is, only one of the two parents will be entitled to supplementation, which will be received at fourteen pay and with certain limits in its amount. Thirdly, we regulate the configuration of the pension supplement on the basis of the principle of contribution, i.e. the determination of that supplement is based on the application of a percentage according to the number of children to the amount of the corresponding pension. We believe that the fixed amount proposed by the Government, the flat rate on pensions proposed by the Government, is clearly discriminatory to women themselves and contempt, does not take into account or does not value the working life of women with the effort and, in many cases, the sacrifice it entails, but rather rather penalizes and punishes women precisely for working and contributing. The greater the effort, the greater the contribution to the system, the more the pension is cut. Ladies and gentlemen, the flat rate proposed by the Government of 27 euros per child is clearly an unfair and almost misogynistic system, because far from supporting women to work, it penalises them precisely for working and contributing. Obviously, we all want wealth to be redistributed, very well, here is the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group to look for alternatives in that distribution system, but what we will never consent to, what we will never support is that it is at the expense of the income of working mothers. Fourthly, we incorporate two additional provisions into the article; one, to ensure that the financing of these pensions is carried out through a transfer from the State to the social security budgets; and the other, which is also important, that we set a temporary limit on the maternity supplement until the gender gap in retirement pensions does not exceed 5%, as well as evaluation systems to monitor compliance with this limit. With regard to economic measures, I think it is important to stress that we have extended from nine to twelve months the moratorium on the payment of funding quotas, not like you, which you have established in just nine months. We understand that we must support the people who are choking, the people who are having a bad time, the companies and of course also the families, who need a breath, and that is why we bet for those twelve months instead of that ridiculous nine-month date that you pose. [[Applauds]] We also include a rescue plan for the productive economy, a rescue plan already presented by our national president, Pablo Casado, and which will be a reality when the People's Party rules in Spain, because after you there will still be a need to rescue the economy. It is a rescue plan for which we propose a three-month period in its drafting. We understand that this plan must be agreed with the autonomous communities, with the social actors and of course with the political groups, and that it must be based on the following pillars. Firstly, EUR 50 billion for direct aid to businesses, so that they can survive. Secondly, the adoption of a working framework that guarantees certainty, that is, that employers are not afraid, but neither are workers. Thirdly, the extension of the ERTE to the end of the state of alarm, again without uncertainties and with guarantees of stability. Fourthly, the adoption of a tax shock plan, like that approved by other European countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany and France. In relation to this shock plan, we propose exemptions for self-employed people and SMEs that have no benefits; at zero income, zero fee. Moreover, not only did we include it in this amendment as a whole, but the Working Committee of 11 March adopted a non-law proposal from the People's Group calling for the same thing: zero income, zero quotas. I hope that they will comply with it, that they will respect the agreements of this House. [[Applauds]] We also call for the delay in the entry into force of new taxes, i.e. to go at the same pace and coordinate with Europe, selective and temporary tax cuts that will enable strategic sectors to reactivate, and a fiscal rebalancing plan that will reduce public spending. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, citizens and entrepreneurs cannot be constantly demanding sacrifices for anything. We ask them to be generous with those who create jobs, with those with whom, with their taxes - because they do not say so - and with their efforts, they support the welfare state. We ask them to maintain and help businesses to continue to survive; businesses and, of course, workers as well. There are already nearly 7 million Spaniards in our country who want to work and cannot do so; and 1 million autonomouss who do not know if the next day they will be able to lift the blind. You Socialists promised not to leave anyone behind, but you are leaving everyone behind; and the problem is that you are not able to look in that direction and see how people fall and people go wrong. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, support this amendment as a whole; we will show the Spaniards that politics serves something...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u68	Mrs. García-Pelayo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u69	... that politics is useful, above all, because it answers people's problems and not the problems of the party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs García-Pelayo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u71	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Apart from the small particularities that I will point out at some point, the amendment to the whole proposed to us by the People's Party counts, as new developments in which it intends to sustain the relevance of this initiative, with a few different proposals regarding those contained in Royal Decree-Law 3/21, validated by this House on 18 February of the same year, and includes among them, curiously, the elimination of an entire chapter. As I said, and leaving aside a certain systematic and drafting proposal for its first article, which we believe is quite appropriate, from a technical point of view, the main developments are: the first, concerning the inclusion in the amendment of Article 60.1 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act of a new paragraph 3, by which it specifies the amount of the maternity supplement according to the number of children, unlike the provisions of the same paragraph of the validated text, which provides that its amount will be fixed in the corresponding Law on General Budgets of the annual State. In the same sense and for passive classes, amend the additional provision eighteenth, with a new determination in paragraph 3. The second, concerning the abolition of the thirty-third transitional provision referred to in Article 1(4), which refers to the transitional maintenance of the maternity supplement in contributory pensions. The third - and most striking, in our view - is the disappearance of chapter 2 of the first title of that Royal Decree-Law 3/21, in the matter of minimum living income. And fourth, a no less striking first additional provision, which provides for a plan to rescue the productive economy, which the Government will have to approve within three months, and which, in its view, will have to have an amount of at least EUR 50 billion, where it also mandates the Executive to take measures to achieve a stable labour framework that will reduce current uncertainty, and a tax shock plan with exemptions for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, as well as a tax rebalancing plan to reduce public spending. Apart from the considerations on the first two issues, which I have already pointed out, I would like to focus on the latter two. As for the last, in particular - let us say with all due respect - we believe that the initiative itself contains the justification for the negative vote they deserve, because it says so: It is not possible to make an economic estimate because it does not have the precise data and tools. Let's see, can it be so frivolous to propose a rescue plan of EUR 50 billion saying that an economic estimate is not available? Is it possible to be so incoherent as to propose a plan of shock and fiscal rebalancing without knowing what extent and amount it should reach? Is it possible to know what it refers to with a stable labour framework after having decausalized the employment contract and promoted so many recruitment figures that we do not know how many formulas there are today? That is already a good reason to vote against, but we also find ourselves with a surprise - I don't know if it is - as regards minimum living income. Although our group in its day chose to vote against precisely for a clear discrepancy with that legislative initiative because we express our radical opposition to a new interference in the Basque competition field, in this case - in that case it was with regard to the procedure and management of minimum living income - this measure does not prevent that drift. It is no less true that at the time we highlighted other issues, and an era that drew attention to the fact that the fifth legislative amendment on minimum living income had not yet been put forward, and that is what this provision requires in some way. Some of the proposed measures are more than positive from the social point of view and we wanted to discuss them well within the presentation, either in a specific legislative proposal, because our intention was and is - still is - to remedy those defects if the initiative went ahead - as happened - trying to correct them in the process of amendments. Because that is the background to this initiative, which, instead of opting for the course of the debate in question by proposing the appropriate partial amendments, which is the content to which the whole text of the amendment seems to refer in its entirety, is formulated as an amendment to the whole for an interest that we understand - that is, with all due respect - somewhat spurious. We believe that it is the electoral times that have prompted the People's Party to bring this initiative. This is not our game, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We understand that it is not the time or place to play with something as important, from the social point of view, as the minimum vital income. We are not going to participate in this escalation of the confrontation, let alone for purely electoral reasons. That is why we believe that this debate can take place within the framework of the paper which, as such, must be set up - and that is where I am speaking to the groups of the Government to untie the possible completion of the deadline for amendments - so that all the issues to which this initiative is being referred and all the other issues to which we can put forward amendments can be discussed precisely in the paper. That's why we tell them they won't count on our support. In these kinds of initiatives and with these kinds of attitudes they will never count on our support.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendment to the whole of the People's Party, I would like to say to you that you already know that in the area of maternity supplementation, pensions, in matters which represent progress on an equal footing, we advocate that no woman should be left behind. This is something we bet in a firm and factual way from our parliamentary group, and not as others seem to do, who use this issue more as an advertising slogan. I would like to put two examples on the table so that we can see how it can have an impact and how we should raise this issue with regard to gender pension reform and improvement. Consider, for example, the single-parent home of a woman who takes care of her child, who has a salary of about 500 euros because she has a part-time, a reality that is unfortunately not punctual, but rather quite abundant in our country. With the amendment tabled by the People's Party, a woman with a child who has that basic 500 euros would charge a supplement of 300 euros, because it is 5% that you are proposing. They therefore worsen the condition established by the Government with its reform, which would be 400 euros per year. We therefore believe that the proposal you put forward affects those women in a situation of greater economic vulnerability. On the other hand, let us think of another model of woman: a woman with two children and who has a contribution base of approximately 1000 euros. With the government's pension supplement proposal, it would charge 800 euros a year instead of 1200 euros, which was so far in force, because it will account for 10% of its contribution base. The conclusion that we have come to is that the two proposals leave women behind. One leaves the most vulnerable behind and the other improves the conditions of one at the expense of the other. Citizens argue that, on the one hand, a protective framework is vital for women who have lower contribution bases and, therefore, it is necessary to establish that protective muscle which would be the guarantee of EUR 400 per year when one has a child. On the other hand, we propose not to penalize middle-income or high-income women who have two or more children, proposing that this percentage of 10 or 15% of maternity supplement be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, this would mean not penalising anyone and moving forward in reducing the gender gap in pensions, but not some women at the expense of others, and much less leaving women with the lowest pensions and vulnerable with an annual cut, which is what you are proposing in this amendment as a whole. In addition, in this decree that you amend there was a very important question regarding the minimum vital income that you have removed from a pen. The decree you amended allowed social services and third-sector entities to be included in the future register of social mediators to certify certain conditions for access to minimum living income where necessary. We are complaining repeatedly and this improvement is key, because it would speed up processing and access to minimum living income in situations of extreme poverty. Another of the conflicts that arose from the original regulation of minimum living income, and which the decree established, was that the burden of proof in cases of alleged cohabitation relationship would be broadened and it would be allowed to be social services, establishing agile processes, which would prove the situation of cohabitation without kinship. Likewise, another thing that that decree improved, and that you also eliminate, is to evaluate special situations when deciding who forms the unity of coexistence. So far, it had been established that victims of gender-based violence with children, as well as persons in separation or divorce who had left their home, could count as a living unit even if they had not been away from home for a year. But this improvement in the decree which you understand, and which you have now ignored, established that this circumstance will be extended so that it could be included in the cohabitation units of family members who temporarily welcome them without that requirement of the year of cohabitation. What do I want to explain? That, on the one hand, the amendment they put forward has a part that we consider appropriate in view of a certain profile of women in relation to the maternity supplement, but they eliminate from a pen - and I do not understand - all that is an improvement for the minimum living income. What you do is put in an economic content that, although we can share, has nothing to do with the royal decree that you amend. Therefore, both the PP and PSOE ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to make a slogan of 'do not leave anyone behind', because your effort to carry everything within what is ideology on many occasions what it does - it does in this case - is to put women aside. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what your bill does is to leave, on the one hand, women with middle and high incomes in a certain situation of lack of protection and a gap, because it seems that they penalise those who have made professional efforts when they have to be recognised as a supplement to their pensions; and, on the other hand, to leave other women in a more vulnerable situation with lower amounts. Stop deepening, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in ideological trenches and begin to build bridges, bridges that benefit the Spaniards and that benefit the women, bridges that all citizens are fully prepared to build. On those bridges you will always find our political formation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u75	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG was critical in its day with the criteria set out in this royal decree to reduce the gender gap, but the amendment of the People's Group clearly does not resolve the deficits in a positive sense, but on the contrary, it harms in a specific aspect, such as that affecting large families, generally makes it worse, particularly in relation to minimum living income, so we are not going to support it. Our critical position was that, although we agree on the intention of the norm, we disagree on how they intend to resolve this goal of narrowing the gender gap, because it is clear that this is a priority objective, but something else is the formula used to achieve it, which in our opinion is more questionable; among other reasons because, starting from the basis of this gender gap is the role of caregivers who historically had to assume many women, it is true that this role was not limited to the care of children. At least in Galicia, where the extended family was common, it was also determined by the care of other relatives, a situation that is not protected by the provisions of this bill. But, as I also pointed out in my previous speech, the structural characteristics of our economy also affected the gender gap in a significant way. In agrarian activity, until a few decades ago, with an important weight in the economy, in the demography of Galicia, only the holder of the exploitation, always or almost always man, shared with the Agrarian Social Security. It is therefore clear that child compensation does not resolve all cases and circumstances. That's why the BNG defends other more effective ways to narrow the gender gap and pass other gaps such as the national or territorial one, which no Spanish party seems ever to take into account. I remind you of some data. Galicia has the second lowest pensions in the Spanish State, 995 euros on average compared to 1380 in Madrid or 1451 in the Basque Country. More data. Ourense is the province with the lowest pension, 818 euros, that is, 547 less than the average of Madrid and 645 less than that of Vizcaya. That is why our proposal starts to raise minimum pensions to match the inter-professional minimum wage and both progressively to the average wage, because this, in addition to being a necessary social justice measure, would have a simultaneous effect of narrowing the territorial and gender gap. Finished. We take the opportunity to reiterate that we regret that the initial decree does not resolve the ineffectiveness of the minimum living income and the unjustified exclusion of certain groups or that they leave out of the consideration of occupational disease numerous groups in the socio-health care field, such as the service...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u76	Mr. Rego, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u77	...issues that we hope to resolve in the course of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, I have the word Boadella Esteve. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, as we explained on the day that Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 was discussed, we believe that this Royal Decree-Law was not the best regulation. The famous title of the royal decree-law against the gender gap raised the issue of the gender gap, raised the issue of occupational disease in health personnel, in the case of COVID, came out measures to defend employment, raised the issue of self-invoicing, came out forecasts for ICO. Therefore, that holder of the royal decree-law that fights the gender gap was a mix of many issues and we already put forward at the time that perhaps that was not the best legislative technique or the best way to address this issue. Apart from that, entering into the content of the royal decree law, there were many issues - some have been pointed out here - such as that large families could lose purchasing capacity, etc. Therefore, that royal decree law, it is true, of breach had the right, among other contents, and against the breach, is to be seen because we have serious doubts as to whether the application generated by this royal decree-law will be effective or not. By this scenario we also ask at the time for processing as a bill. What is true is that we believe that the right way to improve this royal decree-law is to process it as a bill, the amendments that the different parliamentary groups can submit, as I have been defending on other occasions; that the draft laws move forward, that the papers be constituted and that the best possible contribution can be made by the different parliamentary groups. But on the basis of the alternative proposed by the PP today, we believe that this is not the best way to tackle these issues. Firstly, because we very much agree that there should be a change in the protection of health personnel in relation to COVID infections and that they should have protection as if it were occupational disease. This part - I will be allowed to say this - of a non-legislative proposal that was approved on the proposal of PeCAT in the Health Commission, even before the royal decree-law. Therefore, in this royal decree-law there are contents that we consider valid and contents that need to be improved, but the great surprise of the amendment to the whole, no doubt is the disappearance of the minimum vital income. One had the feeling that the People's Party came dragging its feet to the approval of minimum living income. I believe that we can end up confirming this feeling today, as you take advantage of this amendment as a whole to forget about a content that involves important measures, that minimum living income. It does not therefore explain how this amendment as a whole ends up with content that is useful and that represents improvements; improvements that, by the way - and I repeat - if the presentation on the minimum income law had been made, would be part of many amendments not only of my group but also of others who have tabled them. We are not going to support the amendment as a whole, but we do want to take this opportunity to claim that both this presentation concerning this royal decree law and that which is pending the minimum living income follow its course and can begin work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u81	Good morning. A month ago, in the presentation of Royal Decree 3/2021, my partner Marisa Saavedra was already ironically wondering why it would be that the People's Party had forgotten the gender gap in the maternity supplement established in 2015. Listening to your spokesman and seeing the amendment you have put before us, I think we understand it very well. Not only the predictable and conservative defense of one of its policies and its resistance to any type of change, but the inclusion of the amendment in this case of the term 'gender gap', described in addition with an aseptic that seems to scare them to spot themselves, does not lead us at all. It is basically the defense of a model of macho and classist society where public policies play a key role in settling it down. The politicians and their deputies - that is clear -, that is why you'machists' are eluded against the ministers and also against the women who want to do politics. They don't ask us about our abilities or our success, no; they ask us basically and tie us to the luck of any man we have around us. As Lilith Mazel said yesterday, they are basically trying to deprive us of the possibility of having a biography and an existence of their own and we are not going to allow it. [[Applauds]] Basically, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party believe that being a woman must be the weakest flank, I understand, and they do not realize that we are where we are for our abilities and our successes. Take note of that by the Members of the People's Party. Their laws are exactly the same, they are discriminatory, they basically promote institutional machismo and that is why they will fall one by one until they clean up the inheritance of Mariano Rajoy; of M. Rajoy. And we won't do it alone, either. In this case, the High Court of the European Union puts them in their place, ruling out their complement of discrimination and outside the European directive. They created a complement that deliberately escapes from the concept of gender gap, which has its end when we are basically talking about motherhood. The People's Party did not want to recognize that women are less paid for being women, that there is structural violence and that this explains that our salaries and that our pensions are much lower than those of our colleagues. They imposed it on us again without debate, neither in this House nor with the social actors, and they did so as a measure of promotion at birth, demographic contribution. It's adorable! Some lynches, in addition, thought that a complement that would affect several decades later could have some kind of effect, basically on birth. What a joyous reality you must live when you propose as a policy to encourage access to motherhood a supplement that you will charge after decades, when an insufferable number of women suffer today so that they can reach the end of the month! Do you want a useful policy to encourage birth in this case? Let's repeal labour reform, try to limit rental prices. And this message goes also to the comrades of the Socialist Party. Linces, moreover, and ancient, because they were based on a traditional conception of the family in which they excluded mothers with one child, ignored different forms of family and even men engaged in care. The errors in design and design in this case of the original supplement are the cause of the European Court's judgment and in this amendment which we are presenting today persist in them. The only substantial change is on the amount and whether it should be percentage or fixed, basically. The new supplement of contributory pensions, which you are amending in its entirety, is born with two conditions, and in that we must be clear. Firstly, it is written on writing. I believe that if we started from scratch a new, secure regulation that we could improve its design, expanding pensions and benefits and addressing all the factors that make up the gender gap and not just those derived from the periods of care of dependent children, daughters or people. Secondly, the court's ruling requires that the new figure provide for the possibility of access by men in certain cases. In our view, the need to respond to both constraints limits the scope of the new complement, which, however, we consider to be a step forward in combating the effects of the gender gap. It is a relevant step - we will not deny it - in the right direction, but with a great deal of road to develop. For example, we want to talk about non-contributory pensions. In our country, the majority of people who receive a non-contributory pension are women, 77 % according to Imserso data. They are women who have never or never contributed enough to access a contributory pension, in most cases also because they have devoted themselves to the care of dependent daughters, children and other family members. They are women who have worked - their whole lives in fact -, what happens is that they have not contributed. They have devoted their time, their career, their health, to caring for others and therefore have a poor pension, because it is subtle. We basically owe them life, what less to recognize that yes, that it is work, what yes that work has enormous social value and, therefore, an economic recognition. We have doubts as to the amount provided for in Royal Decree 3/2021. It could mean a decrease - depending on how it will apply - for some people and that is not acceptable. The problem of this complement is its original configuration, that of the People's Party; that and that by leaving aside non-contributory ones also leaves aside, precisely, those who need it most. Much work remains to be done to improve this complement, but I have no doubt that it will be on the basis of the actual decree that was presented a month ago and not to this amendment, which brings absolutely nothing positive. Obviously, we will vote against it. Enough pensions for a dignified and quiet old age and feminist laws to combat structural inequalities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u83	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have to tell you that your whole amendment is a missed opportunity. On the one hand, concrete proposals are put forward, more typical of a rally than of a rule that aspires to a rank of law and, on the other hand, they have again fallen into the networks of gender ideology and globalism. With regard to the specific proposals, it is appropriate to propose the creation of a rescue plan for the productive economy with measures as attractive as direct aid, fiscal aid or a reduction in public expenditure. My children also write letters to the Precious Magic Kings. [[Applauds]] It is not realistic for the groups to agree on all these measures in three months' time. However, there are basic measures that are simple to implement now and that self-employed people and entrepreneurs have been waiting a long time, such as, for example, that self-employed people's quotas should be reduced in proportion to the decrease in their billing or that taxes such as VAT should only be paid when the employer has collected the corresponding work, not because they have issued the bill, because Finance can also ruin entrepreneurs. What I was telling you, missed opportunities. I would also like to remind you that we are here today on the issue of pensions, because the Government, taking advantage of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union calling for equality for men and women and taking advantage of the mechanism of the royal decree-law debate and abusing it, to avoid any kind of debate, as good totalitarians as they are, has again opened the sex war. What should theoretically be a change to eliminate discrimination against man-because, yes, man suffers discrimination - you have used it to crush mothers and families. [[Applauds]] What we are not surprised is that the People's Party is proposing an amendment to the whole that is neither chica nor lemonade, in line with the PP of recent times. The PP again buys the gender ideology that sells the left. This amendment has portrayed you, gentlemen of the People's Party, because it shows that in economic matters you can have differences with the left but that in ideological matters you are approaching dangerously. [[Applauds]] I would love for the Members of the People's Party to explain to the Spaniards why in 2015 they understood that it was a complement for motherhood, for demographic contribution, and now for the work and grace of feminism is a complement for a gender gap. It's a qualitative ideological leap that I don't know if your voters are going to understand. The cowardice is paid, gentlemen, and I say it not only because they adopt the terminology of the left, but because they adopt its contents. You, Members of the People's Party, are proposing a discriminatory law against man. In his proposal, the woman receives the default supplement and the man has to justify the loss of income by paternity. It is a discriminatory proposal against men because men who have been convicted of gender-based violence do not receive the supplement, but if a woman has been convicted of violence against her partner, she does receive the supplement. So we have more discrimination against men, more privileges towards women and, in short, more feminism at the hands of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The Members of the Government, as feminists as they are, want a bill that despises the mothers of more than two children and the Members of the People's Party, who also boast of feminists, despise the mothers of more than four children. What VOX proposes is to protect all mothers, have the children they have. We want real equality now! [[Applauds]] Some of you cut pensions and the others look elsewhere when it comes to the most numerous families, that is, the most generous. What they don't understand is that there is no gender gap, to start with because people don't have gender, but what there is is a maternal gap. [[Applauds]] It is true that there are men who contribute more and therefore have better pensions than women, but not because women are poor victims oppressed by patriarchy, their favorite ghost, no, is that many women prioritize in the family and in motherhood. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, motherhood is good, the family is good, having children is not patriarchal and until they accept this they will continue to despise motherhood. Here there is no need for a gender perspective, what is needed is a family perspective that, in addition, helps us to combat the demographic winter that in Spain is already a glaciation. You punish mothers and do not realize that yesterday's children are those who support today's elders. The problem is that none of you have a model of society. In the Government we find a plan for the destruction of society and in the People's Party we find something that produces the same terrible effects, which is the lack of conviction. The result is the attack or indifference by the family, which is the fundamental pillar of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, are you really such feminists? Do they really care so much about women? They approve our latest proposal to make the right of maternity deduction compatible with the benefits of ERTE. [[Applauds]] We give incentives to employers to hire pregnant women, we give longer maternity leave, we give monthly child support and we reward mothers for giving us the gift of life. [[Applauds]] Chesterton said that the family is the place where children are born and where men die, the place where freedom and love flourish and I humbly add that the family is the refuge of totalitarianism. [[Applauds]] Take note, gentlemen of the government, because it will be in VOX and it will be in the family where its defeat was fragrant. And take note, gentlemen of the People's Party, because the cemeteries of politics are overflowing with unconvincing parties and, if you don't believe it, ask Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Somoza has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party for measures to reduce the gender gap in pensions, an amendment to the whole, ladies and gentlemen, which does not bring anything new to the text we already have, nor a single proposal. This is a technically improved text which is discriminatory and which, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, is very late. They present a text in which the explanatory statement leaves much to be desired. On the one hand, they dedicate whole paragraphs to the governments of Mariano Rajoy, as if they were the drivers of social and gender equality policies in Spain. I admit to you that you must have very little shame to do this and a boldness too great to look at the face of the whole socialist bench. On the other hand, they devote nothing more and nothing less than three lines to talking about self-employed people and three more to health personnel. Three lines, no content, no proposal. They minimize the important protective measures for self-employed and health-care workers contained in the draft law. By the way - other spokesmen of the groups that have preceded me have already told you - what about the minimum living income? Have you forgotten? The Royal Decree-Law presented by the Government, which validated this House a month ago, broadens the coverage of minimum living income, expands access to more vulnerable people and incorporates social services - to the third sector too - into this new right in our social model, but you directly in your amendment eliminate it. Are these, ladies and gentlemen, your priorities? Is this the importance that the most vulnerable and worst-case groups are having for you? This is the difference between your model and ours. We protect everyone without leaving anyone behind - yes, ladies and gentlemen, without leaving anyone behind - while you do not protect anyone at all. [[Applauds]] With regard to the maternity supplement, they call for a maternity supplement which has already been declared discriminatory by the Court of Justice of the European Union and, in addition, with what you propose in your amendment, make the gap between women's pensions even wider, if possible. Give more to the one who has more. Of course, very much in line with its redistributive policy, apart from assuming no mistake and persevering in policies that have marked the seven darkest years for Spanish society in terms of rights and freedoms, especially, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of women's rights. Or maybe not. Or perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you are making a statement of intent directly, because I ask you: do you, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, defend a criterion that has been defined as discriminatory by the Court of Justice of the European Union? Say it clearly, because if it really is a yes, I am much more concerned than I was when I read this initiative that you bring here today when you see that you insist, that you persist in error. They also show a clear lack of technical knowledge. They put in place a legislative initiative that covers existing budget items but does not identify them. That is to say, you come here and ask for financial resources, but you are unable to share with this House where you should stop them. They argue that they have no data or no information, but, ladies and gentlemen, do they not know the General Budgets of the State for the year 2021? You know we beat them up and approved it here, right? You know they're published in the State Official Gazette, right? You're aware of all this, aren't you? Three lines for autonomous, three lines for sanitary, three lines for an economic memory-all this empty of content - and absolutely nothing for minimum vital income. That's it, this is your maximum contribution. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, reflects your amendment to the whole with an alternative text, but it is also, as I said to you, late. They plan to rescue the productive economy with measures that are already in place and some that are already in place. They talk about a fund for financial support and corporate capitalization. Ladies and gentlemen, where have you been this past year? Liquidity injection to guarantee the solvency of our productive tissue - I quote its expression -. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I remind you of all the measures that this Government has put in place in the economic field. This morning the Minister has said these things, but I will repeat them: lines of public endorsement and extension for the deadlines, the ERTE, paying salaries and social security contributions, the extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed workers, the moratoriums on the payment of taxes and contributions, also moratoriums on credits, the COVID Debt Restructuring Fund, two SEPI and Cofides solvency funds, direct aid to the autonomous communities through the React-EU and the direct aid of €7 billion we discussed this morning in Royal Decree 5/2021. Really, ladies and gentlemen, how against you are helping the Spanish and the Spanish who are going through the worst? But what is totally intolerable in a democratic and rule of law state is that you deny any progress in rights and freedoms. They consider these to be privileges. The people here know that very well. You are much more comfortable leaning on your checkbook than you really are on the rules. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, voting in favour of the text they put forward implies a step backwards in the area of equality, voting in favour of its initiative is an improper nonsense of those who do believe in freedom; therefore, it will not have socialist support, with the party and the government that launched the Law against Gender Violence, with the party and the government that launched the Equality Act, with the party and the government that decriminalized abortion and allowed women to decide on ourselves. The content of this text causes mistrust, discrimination and legal uncertainty. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not you who are in the government why judging by the content of this text - which you propose here today - are a very dangerous party when you are ruling in crisis and yes, we know it in Madrid, we know it perfectly well, where you are ruling and you have not given a single euro in direct aid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u87	We then proceed to the point corresponding to the election of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, in accordance with the provisions of article 11.4 of Law 17/2006 of 5 June of the Radio and Television of State Ownership and in the first transitional provision of Law 5/2017 of 29 September, amending the aforementioned Law 17/2006 to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. The election shall be made by the system set out in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and the candidate who obtains the highest number of votes shall be elected by a majority of at least two thirds, i.e. 234 votes. The second secretary will read out the names of the ten elected members of the board of directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u88	Elected members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation: don José Manuel Pérez Tornero, doña Elena Sánchez Caballero, don José Manuel Martín Medem, doña María Carmen Sastre Bellas, don Jenaro Castro Muiña, don Juan José Baños Loinaz, don Roberto Lakidaín Zabalza, don Ramón Colom Esmatges, doña María Consuelo Aparicio Avendaño, doña Concepción Carmen Cascajosa Virino.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez spoke on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u90	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to point out that the elected president will have the cooperation and commitment to work together with my parliamentary group. I would also like to convey the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Spanish Radio Television workers and tell them that we will continue to work so that one day - today a little further - this entity will be independent and that the parties will take their manazas out of it. I have to admit that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and we are lucky today that what happens here today does not reach public opinion in a massive way. In the midst of a pandemic with so many dead that the government has been unable to count them, with so much ruin that there is no rescue or enough help, with Spain plunged into an unprecedented crisis, the People's Party and the Socialist Party were unable to agree on anything. In May of last year, they did not agree on a state of alarm that allowed a confinement, when all scientists and health workers cried out for it; at a time when EPI was missing, at a time when health workers became hundreds and died, when ICUs were on the verge of collapse, they did not agree. There were thousands of Spanish people intubated, dying alone, drowned and being buried alone without the company of their family members, and you did not agree on the only measure that we knew was effective: the confinement, which came forward thanks to the fact that my parliamentary group is responsible and knew that this was the only effective measure to prevent the spread of the virus. They called us everything. Can you imagine today if there had been no confinement in that May? Nor did they agree to negotiate budgets, either. I didn't care about the pandemic. Spain ruined, asphyxiated and demolished by a pandemic, and the People's Party and the Socialist Party without speaking to help the Spaniards. The suffering of the Spaniards was not reason enough to break blocks that believe they benefit electorally. Don't you talk for nothing? Don't you ever talk? Yes, for something they do speak, to distribute the presidency and the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio-television have spoken; perhaps it is so that Spanish Radio-television cannot tell exactly what I am telling here today. The process has been embarrassing. They have denigrated this House and have especially denigrated the Senate. Look at the extent to which they have perverted what was initially going to be a public contest that made all the candidates appear here obviating the work that a committee of experts did, in which they could not get involved, whose decisions they could not pervert and which did not select the candidates you wanted. Well, after the congressional appearances, they announced a list of people they were going to choose for Spanish Radio Television - six in Congress and four in the Senate - before the appearances took place and the projects would be presented in the Senate. They didn't hide anything at all. Now, in the aftermath of an election campaign in Madrid, we are seeing the dialectic in which they are placing Spanish politics: communism or freedom, they say in the People's Party, horrified because Stalin arrives; the others answer: socialism or far right, now comes Mussolini, they will not pass, the Czechs return. We're listening to all this. You play irresponsiblely in 1936 because you think it's good for you electorally and you care very little about the effect that that can have on society, it destroys us as a country, but it rents you as parties. I know you don't care about all this, but you, who aspire to live the whole life of politics, know that no party survives your country. I'm telling you this because, since responsibility or patriotism doesn't move you, let's see if at least the possible loss of pay moves you. But what happens while this war-civilist pantomime is in the posters, in the media and in all the chatter? How is that conversation between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Podemos? What's it like? Hey, Stalin's son, communist killer. Tell me, heir to Mussolini, dangerous fascist. You give me four counselors and I'll stay with six? Done. When you're done building the Czech, you call me and we talk about the judges. This is a shame, they confront society for their electoral interests and behind their backs are distributed Spanish Radiotelevision and the judges. [[Applauds]] They are unable to speak for budgets, confinement and states of alarm, but when they can manipulate Spanish Radio-television or when they can prevent justice from causing them problems, they do speak, they are blood brothers. Look, we're not going to vote or participate in this indecency. I know they've found people who have a price, they've searched for it and they've found it, but the idea we have in Spanish Citizens is not for sale. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u91	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u92	Thank you, President. We must recognize that today is not a good day for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, it is not a good day for this House, it is not a good day for democracy and transparency; it is not. Of course, from More Country-Verds-Equo we will not vote for any of the candidates who present us today to chair the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. It has been a crazy process, as crazy as none, and a lack of respect for professionals, candidates and candidates, who have appeared up to twice, while the results were already known and leaked, which has been demonstrated, above all and fundamentally, in the appearances of candidates in the Senate. From a majority agreement that there was for the election of a public contest, we have gone back, after so long, to the division by party quotas. Again, we have returned to the quota-sharing system in disregard of the recommendations of the expert committee. By the way, a committee of experts was evaluated and elected by this House as a whole, and we have also disregarded the recommendations of the committee of experts. On the final result of the competition, if it was intended to make some correction to it, the result is total nonsense, because it has nothing to do with the opinion of the committee of experts, and it has much to do with the interests and the results of the various parties. Claiming independence, autonomy and freedom on Spanish Radiotelevision and, at the same time, making a setback like the one we are doing from public contest to quotas per party does not cease to be a barbarity; and it does not cease to be a hypocrisy; and it does not cease to be a shame for this House. We regret it, we deeply regret it; it is a setback that we will surely pay in time for a public Spanish Radio Television, which is of enormous importance to the country. However, I would like to send a final message to the President who, with his votes, is elected, and to the new Board of Directors, which also with his votes has been elected. Of course, from my group we will continue to work and we will continue to demand a public, independent and plural broadcasting; and we will continue to demand that they resolve the issues of staff, interim staff, professionals, career, media, resources, stability of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation; and we will demand that they urgently resolve all these situations. He told them that, like the representative of Citizens, we will continue to work. However, I cannot help telling you that all the journey that was made to seek a system of public competition for the election of the representatives and the presidency of Spanish Radiotelevision, which was a mandate, which was a legal change of the former socialist government, all that journey has been brought to the brink with this final determination of the contest. I am convinced that we are going to regret it; I am so convinced that we are going to regret it that, of course, on our part, we are going to work so that this nonsense at least has a control, an evaluation, and we can resume the stability, plurality, independence, autonomy and improvement of Spanish Broadcasting professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u94	Thank you, President. Democracy has to do with procedures, but above all it has to do with the distribution of power. When we talk about public services, health, education, dependence, we are talking about democracy, we are talking about redistributing power so that all people, regardless of their economic situation, can have access to basic goods, and something similar happens with information and cultural content. Article 20 of our Constitution recognizes the right to communicate and freely receive truthful information by any means of dissemination. Well, today the mainstream media is owned by transnational corporations and vulture funds, which will naturally defend and represent the interests of a minority. That is why it cannot be that information and culture are only in the hands of great economic powers; that is why the public media today are more important than ever. The parliamentary election of a president for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation seems to us to be a necessary and good news. The fact that Parliament has decision-making capacity is a step forward - of course all the mechanisms of election are perfectable - but, above all, ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting an end to a situation of provisionality that was not acceptable, as it is not acceptable that we have an expired framework mandate. It is a matter of simply complying with the law, and the framework mandate that is drafted must expressly include the obligation to provide quality information for a quality democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not very few news trophies we have seen on Spanish Radio Television in recent times too. For example, Spanish Radiotelevision reported, and not once but repeatedly - and I quote - of Philip VI's renunciation of his father's inheritance, turning the act of compromising speech, expression of a will, of an intention, as it appeared in the Royal House communiqué, into an act of declaratory speech with executive force, into a renunciation, in fact, and this is very serious because it falses the truth. We can go on with the trophies. For example, many viewers have denounced the retahíla of euphemisms with which Radiotelevision Española whitewashes the ultra-right as talking about the members of the neo-Nazi organization that calls the demonstration last February 27 as young people with Spanish flags, and it was not a mistake, there were precedents. On another occasion they had labeled an information saying: Tension between independenceists and supporters of the unity of Spain. The supporters of the unity of Spain were young people with Spanish flags, yes, but young people making the fascist greeting and singing the Face to the sun. And we could go on and on, the last thing is that the insult of the deputy of the PP to our minister Yolanda Díaz is presented as a clash between the minister and the deputy who exercises that unacceptable verbal violence. In spite of everything, it is time to look forward because we are interested in public television running at full performance. I would like to recall the importance of the world of culture, which has suffered so much in the pandemic. Our radiotelevision must support culture and sport, especially women's sport, and of course Spanish radiotelevision must defend the public workers of the corporation and must bet on its own productions. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by reading an El Español headline: 'Vicente Vallés and Carlos Herrera can 'end up' with Pablo Iglesias: the million faithful who will decide the 4-M in Madrid'. Guards out, ladies and gentlemen. They're very powerful, they tweet now in Citizens. We live in processes of wealth concentration that jeopardize the functioning of democracy. Naturally, if the media are in the hands of vulture funds, how will they not be hostile to those with whom we defend the constitutional right to housing. In the face of these interests and in the face of the toxic universe of consented lies, public services are now more necessary than ever; public media not at the service of a party but of society, with rigour, objectivity and social and democratic commitment. To the new president of Spanish Broadcasting we express our support and wish you the best of luck. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mariscal Zabala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u96	Thank you, President. Today we debate again at the Spanish Television Congress. A few weeks ago, when the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Podemos decided to secretly distribute themselves to the new Spanish Television advisors, we talked about the public channel and today we do it again because the same parties intend to elect the new Spanish Television president. I announce that, in the same way that VOX did not participate in the fraudulent renewal of Spanish Television advisors, today we will not participate in the election of its new president, but not by the elected candidate. [[applause]] Honestly, we believe that José Manuel Pérez Tornero could be a good president of Spanish Television, because he has a good academic and professional career. But we will not participate in the vote because we refuse to be part of the chanchullos of consensus progress that makes good people and good professionals end up being political commissioners so that everything remains the same and, in this case, everything remains the same on Spanish Television. [[applause]] That is why we prefer to stay out of the future Spanish Television. The Spanish should know that the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Podemos do not want Spanish Television to be an independent television for two main reasons. Let's start with the economic motive. The Spanish should know that Spanish Television has an annual budget of more than 1 billion euros, a very high figure to which the political parties are not willing to give up. And I'm not saying that they put their hands directly into the Spanish Television box, but they do through other hands. They do so through contracts with private producers to run programs that could make the more than 6,000 Spanish Television workers and do so by giving Spanish Television advertising to Atresmedia and Mediaset. Why does the government of PSOE and Podemos turn their backs on the Spanish Television workers by signing billion-dollar contracts with producers - in some cases, separatist producers such as Roures - or with certain left-wing intoxicators such as Jesús Cintora? The answer is very obvious. Political parties have been systematically using the Spanish Television budget to pay favors journalists, producers and the media, and this is one of the reasons why they do not want Spanish Television to be an independent television. [[applause]] But there's one more reason. It is often said that Spanish Television is the propaganda apparatus of the Government, but with this agreement it is shown that it is also the propaganda apparatus of the progressive consensus. The Spanish can always see on Spanish Television a Tertulian who defends the ideas of the PSOE, another Tertulian who defends the ideas of Podemos and another Tertulian who defends the ideas of the People's Party, even sometimes there are Tertulians who defend the ideas of the separatists. What the Spaniards never see is Tertullians defending certain ideas that represent millions of people. [[Applauds]] For example, they don't see Tertullians defending that violence is genderless or they don't see journalists warning about the situation that the Canaries are experiencing because of the migratory invasion, and it is that the consensus parties use Spanish Television to silence what millions of Spaniards think. And speaking of what millions of Spaniards think, neither do we see any Spanish Television Tertulian denouncing the restrictions on freedom imposed by politicians on citizens, some arbitrary and unjust restrictions, restrictions, by the way, imposed by politicians of the People's Party from the autonomous communities and by politicians of the PSOE and Podemos from Moncloa. That's why we never see Tertulians on Spanish Television complaining that a Toledano can't go to Seville in Holy Week, but a Frenchman does, neither do we see any Tertulians denounce and criticize how ridiculous it is that a Madrider has to go with a mask until he takes a solo walk through the Retiro, nor criticize the curfews at eight o'clock in the afternoon. In short, many Spaniards wonder why Spanish Television does not defend the freedom of the Spaniards, who are the ones who pay for it. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. The parties always want Spanish Television to remain a propaganda apparatus of consensus and an automatic cashier to pay favors. That's why they secretly choose their president and his advisors. In VOX we are not like those consensus parties progress and that is why we will fight to return freedom and public television to the Spaniards. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u97	Thank you, Mr. Mariscal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Lords of Citizens, you, with your latest achievements in Murcia, Castile and León and the Community of Madrid, have entered the distinguished group of collaborators of this government, one more wild of Sánchez and of Iglesias, pure caricature of opposition. Too bad! How sad! How pitiful! [[Applauds]] From VOX they attack, as usual, the People's Party, among other things to cover up what they say chanchullos. No, their chanchullos, those of which we would like to all know what they got from the famous pact of silence in which they abstained to prosper the distribution of the 140 billion discretionaryly by the government. We're still waiting for your explanation. [[Applauds]] You are not interested in the information in Spanish Radiotelevision, which is equal to Spanish Radiotelevision, because the only thing that interests you - you know it well, Mr Mariscal - is the absolute domain of the networks. That's where you're real artists sharing fraudulent information. We want to be part of a solution to a serious problem of democratic quality that exists today in Spanish Radio-television, and we have chosen precisely that, because we are part of that solution, and the change was absolutely necessary without delay. Not a minute longer can remain in front of Spanish Radiotelevision the tandem formed by Mrs Mateo and Mr Enric Hernández. The public contest has come to an end, and we have been betting on it, closing a stage of absolutely harmful provisionality. Since July 2018 the data are indisputable: low audiences, collapse in the news, loss of credibility, failure of the audiovisual offer of entertainment, collapse of the radio, economic deficit, professional purge, abusive outsourcing, privatization of information programs, scandal and constant controversy. The penultimate example happened yesterday: the persecution and harassment suffered by the president of the government Mariano Rajoy, a harassment more peculiar to any other program and other chain than the public service of Spanish Radio Television and that denounced great professionals of the house with whom we can or cannot always agree, but that they also did, like Xabier Fortes, Marc Sala or Franganillo. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we demand that all the groups represented in this House be aware of the need to change once and for all the leadership and the sole administrator and that they be replaced by a council elected in accordance with the Spanish Broadcasting Act. There is not enough time to disprove all the misconceptions on which Spanish Broadcasting has recently fallen, but those who went to attend the Appointments Commission did, and to them and their opinions I refer. We cannot forget, moreover, figures as scandalous as the 18,000 euros a month that Mr Cintora receives to, among other things, pay with public money - which is what this current Spanish Radio-television is doing - the most radical and sectarian ideological campaigns that We could have wished for. Clear things and very thick manipulation; a robbery and fraudulent use of public service. [[Applauds]] And I do not want to go without denouncing the very serious words that have been spoken in the House this morning by a Member of the European Parliament who said: in Madrid on 4 May, it is decided between communism or freedom to contaminate. Shame on you!, but, well, very in line with Mr. Cintora's Clear Things program, I'm sure you'll be applauded. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the Spanish Radiotelevision competition, thanks to the end of the interim phase and the fact that there will be a board of directors, this kind of gross uses of Spanish Radiotelevision we are convinced that they will come to an end and for that the People's Parliamentary Group will be very vigilant. That is why it is urgent to commit, as we said, a profound change in Spanish Radiotelevision. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is going to give us control lessons on television and less responsibility or pulcriticity. [[Rumors]] No one is going to give them to us, because, when you arrive, we were already coming back with all the initiatives that we have been presenting about Spanish Radio Television. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u99	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, let no one doubt that democratic control over Spanish Radio Television will have its most active and zealous practicer in the People's Parliamentary Group because broadcasting is of all Spaniards and is due to them, rather than to some groups it is much more comfortable to remain settled in the controversy. That's not where you serve the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Nelson Mandela said, "Let your decisions reflect your hopes, not your fears. And today we will enter a time of hope without any fear, hope and illusion. We will leave behind times of provisionality, times of difficult management, times that have extended longer than we all would have wanted. But today the constitutional and legal mandate obliges us to complete this process; a provisionality in the direction of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, which has exercised with professionalism, generosity, courage and vocation of public service the still sole administrator, Rosa María Mateo, to which we reiterate from my group our gratitude, an interinity that today will have its end with the election in this session of the next president of Spanish Broadcasting. [[applause]] It will be a presidency that has the difficult but at the same time exciting task of making a modern, independent and plural public broadcasting, a task that involves having a Spanish Broadcasting that faces challenges ranging from competition with other private groups and new incoming providers, to the transition to a multimedia and multi-platform service, to ensuring the management of an efficient and adequate funding model. You have many tasks ahead of you, Mrs. Montesinos. I thank you very much for being part of the solution. Because among the tasks ahead of the new president and the council, one of them is that it will never make us have a public broadcaster like the one that led us to the shame that, among other things, the European Parliament in 2018 asked the government of the People's Party to explain the manipulation in its information and that the Council of Europe denounced, as it did in 2013, the interference of the People's Party in Spanish Broadcasting. [[applause]] So I thank you repeatedly for wanting to be part of this solution. And, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you do not conceive of an independent and neutral public television; you have not stopped beating, criticizing and discrediting public television. They always use it as an instrument of partisan political confrontation, as they do with everything. By the way, it denotes in your speech that you do not see public television, because you talk about not appearing in any Spanish Radio Television chatter and the companion you have sitting next to your seat has participated in many of them. [[Applauds]] Moreover, they have never believed in editorial independence and professional control because they do not understand the neutrality and independence of journalists in a public environment. And the saddest thing is that, after listening today, it is inevitable to come to a conclusion: you are unable to make a solid, responsible and constructive criticism for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and even less feasible and exciting proposals. That's why we're other people. That is why, in order to carry out this task, my parliamentary group believes that the most suitable person is José Manuel Pérez Tornero, a man who, as his curriculum shows, has worked on projects and programmes on national and international television and in the public and private sectors in various roles and has directed various digital innovation projects in the field of interactive and audiovisual communication. In Spain he has developed his professional task in Spanish Radiotelevision, on autonomous television and has advised various projects of private thematic channels. It should be noted that he was the creator of educational television in Spanish Television with The Adventure of Knowledge, a program that has been maintained to date since the 1990s. He is a person who before the Appointments Commission of this House ended his appearance with a message of hope for the corporation, so that he recovers his leadership and audience by saying: 'We know, we want and we can do it, a message that enthuses the workers because I understand that interinity is not good. If the interinity is over and a new shared leadership is opened, the change from my point of view will not be easy, but it is certain.' A change that leads us to that kind of hope, as Nietzsche said, is a far greater stimulant than luck. Let us now vote in that time of hope, hope and illusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u104	We turn to the last item on the agenda, on the proposal of the Commission on Science and Innovation and Universities for the creation of a subcommittee on the development of the Science and Innovation Pact and the study and analysis of the amendment of the Science Act. This proposal is submitted to the plenary without any previous debate. The vote on this item will take place next, together with the rest of the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we started with the votes. No-law propositions. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, urging the government to adhere to the European Parliament's resolution of 19 September 2019 condemning the Nazi and Communist totalitarianisms. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 41 plus 113 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 120 telematics votes, 184; abstentions, 11 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u106	It's rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE ERRADICATION OF SYNOGARISM. [[File number 162/000510]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u107	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the eradication of sinogarism. The vote was taken on the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; 105 plus 192 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u108	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u109	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government will take to ensure the proper investment of the Strategic Business Solvency Support Fund managed by SEPI. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 106 plus 244 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 113 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 130 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u110	It's rejected. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government intends to adopt in order to clarify the truth about the death of Mikel Zabalza Garate. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 173/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u111	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government intends to take in order to clarify the truth about the death of Mikel Zabalza Gárate. [[EAJ-PNV]] It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 4 plus 70 telematics votes, 74; against, 101 plus 173 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u112	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, in order for the Government to clarify its position with regard to the absence of a presidency of the State-owned industrial partnership for 17 months, the excessive adjudication, after 9 months of the support fund for the solvency of strategic enterprises, and the lack of information on the only operation approved in which the legal period has passed. [[SEPI]] [[File number 173/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u113	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to clarify its position with regard to the absence of a presidency of the State Society for Industrial Participation, SEPI, for seventeen months, the low allocation, after nine months of the Fund for the Support of the Solvency of Strategic Enterprises, and the non-compliance of information of the only operation approved in which the legal deadline has elapsed. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 42 plus 113 telematics votes, 155; against, 63 plus 117 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u114	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u115	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 4/2021 of 9 March amending Act 27/2014 of 27 November 2014 on corporation tax and the consolidated text of the Non-resident Income Tax Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 5/2004 of 5 March 2004, in relation to hybrid asymmetries. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u116	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 106 plus 244 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 105 plus 231 telematics votes, 336; against, 7 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 plus 6 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u117	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 5/2021, OF 12 MARCH, OF EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE ENTERPRISE SOLVENCY IN RESPONSE TO THE PANDEMIA OF COVID-19. [[File number 130/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u118	Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 of 12 March on extraordinary measures to support business solvency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 64 plus 113 telematics votes, 177; against, 59 telematics votes; abstentions, 41 plus 72 telematics votes, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u119	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; 105 plus 240 telematics votes, 345; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u120	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u121	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law adopting measures for the reduction of the gender and other issues in the areas of social and economic security, pursuant to Royal Decree-Law 3/2021 of 2 February. Submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 41 plus 51 telematics votes, 92; against, 64 plus 133 telematics votes, 197; abstentions, 60 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u122	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u123	Election of the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Election of the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. The voting was as follows. Votes cast, 269. Votes in favour of Don José Manuel Pérez Tornero, 247; blank votes, 21; null votes, 1. Therefore, having obtained at least a two-thirds majority of the members of the Chamber, i.e. 234 votes, Don José Manuel Pérez Tornero has been appointed president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u124	New point. Proposals for the establishment of subcommittees. Proposal of the Commission on Science, Innovation and Universities for the creation of a subcommission on the development of the Pact for Science and Innovation and the study and analysis of the amendment of the Law on Science. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics, 346; in favour, 105 plus 241 telematics, 346.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-25-CD210325.u125	The proposal was therefore adopted. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
