ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u2	Mr Sánchez, welcome to Parliament after eighty days without a face. His cesarism and contempt for the opposition reaches such an extreme that we even have to thank those who do not vote for him for being emptied. But you, who do not tell the truth or the doctor and hides in the end that it is the autonomies that give him the vaccines that are giving him in Europe, it turns out that you have slipped the lump in the worst moments and assumed management when it did not belong to him, forgetting and hiding that there are already 120,000 dead by the pandemic and that even the Constitutional Court has laid down its measures. In addition to failing with the COVID, in his investiture he promised four goals and in the four he has failed. The first was to put an end to unemployment, but he shot him at 5 million. It is not able to execute even 4% of European funds and there are already a million families making the queues of hunger. The second thing he promised was the social shield, but he's electrocuted it by firing the bill from the light. Listen, by the way, if you were asking for resignations when the light goes up by 8%, why don't you quit when you go up by 200 %? Answer it. [[Applauds]] The third promise was to defend freedom from interference by the Government, but his Government had degraded all freedoms. You should be ashamed that the four judicial associations have to go to Europe to complain that you prevent judges from choosing judges in Spain. The only one blocking here is you. [[Applauds]] And the fourth thing he promised was to co-wrote Catalonia, but he has pardoned the coupsmen against the Supreme Court and today he sits down to negotiate a referendum with the terrorists who want to attack the People's Party and the radicals who set Barcelona on fire once again. What a reunion. When do you intend to solve the problems of the Spaniards rather than aggravate them? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Married, I'm glad to see you here again, I hope to see you here for much longer. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, you talk about a lot of things. I have heard you say throughout yesterday and before yesterday that the measures we are taking regarding the control of the price of light are confiscatory. And confiscatory, ladies and gentlemen, for you, it means that the extraordinary benefits of large companies, as a result of the rise in wholesale prices on the international energy market, are being reversed precisely for the benefit of citizens, that is, small and medium-sized enterprises, industries and ordinary citizens. That, Your Honor, is fair, because the fair is we all want the shoulder, everyone! And the government, Your Honor, in the crisis of the bill of light will always defend the interest of citizens above any particular interest. [[applause]] [[Laughs.-Protests]] I'll tell you something else, sir: that's what governments do. And I can say here today that the government will always defend citizens' interests above any particular interest and pressure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u6	What are you going to say about the light, if you said yesterday in the Senate that the light doesn't cost every day. Since you're in your palace, you don't know what happens to self-employed people and homes. The last time you went to a table of infamy for independence, what I told you was that your health minister would solve the pandemic that you were hiding. Today we tell him to solve the social and economic crisis in Spain. But there's nothing left of you anymore, you've betrayed all your promises not to bargain with communists, with Baptists, with independenceists, and you've led everyone who helped you get to the Moncloa. When the president of a club throws the coach and betrays the hobby, when he throws the front and throws the defense, the leftover is the president of the club, Mr. Sánchez. You are already the president of a failed government, you are the president of the most radical government in Europe, the most radical in the democratic history of Spain. And the worst is that you are unable to solve the problems of the Spanish, because the main problem of Spain is you. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u8	I see you a little uneasy and hasty, Mr. Married. [[Laughter]] I was curious to see the tone that was to be released at this new session. Anyway, I see it's the same, it's already clear to me that you're not going to tie your shoulder throughout this legislature. You left with the no and you're back with the no. You left with the chrispation and you're back with the chrispation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u10	You, Your Honor, consider that everything is wrong, that everything is fatal all the time, without hope. You said vaccination was a disaster. You said recovery was a dream. You said that the foreign policy of the Government of Spain did not exist, and then it goes there, indeed, by other countries speaking as well of Spain as you speak of when you come out of it. But the reality is another, Your Honor; the reality is that we lead the vaccination, the reality is that we are going to lead the economic recovery, the reality is that the President of the European Commission - of her political family - said that in the evacuation of Afghanistan the Government and Spain have represented the soul of Europe. That's the reality, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] I only ask for two things, I don't think it's too much to ask. I ask you two things at this session: the first, that you comply with the Constitution, that you comply with democratic legality, Your Honor, and the second, that when you leave outside, that when you leave Spain, you speak well of your country, because that is even speaking well of you. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE MOST WILLING TO CEDE TO THE ENEMIES OF SPAIN TO DETERMINE WITH YOUR SUPPORT? [[File number 180/00618]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u11	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u12	Mr. Sánchez, what more are you going to give in to the enemies of Spain so that you can screw one more minute in that blue seat? Because now you go to a negotiating table with coup players where the currency of change is the sovereignty of Spain, it is the betrayal of justice that condemned the thugs, it is the betrayal of the king and the people who defended the nation and the Constitution. But all this does not matter to you, nor does it matter to you that they burn police stations or pay tribute to terrorist psychopaths in Mondragon. You're the only one who cares, Mr. Sanchez. And since VOX is the only party that tells you to preside over an illegitimate government, which keeps infinite distance with you for your pact with the coups, terrorists and separatists, and is the only party that resorts to the courts for your violation of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, you are dedicated to the demonization of VOX and to fantasize about the illegalization of VOX along with your partners. He has now accused VOX of hate crimes against women, immigrants and homosexuals. They even accuse us of crimes that have not happened; they accuse us of the assembly of envelopes, they accuse us of the assembly of Malasaña. On the other hand, in the real crimes we have not heard them say a word, like that of the Magrebian herd that raped a girl in Formentera. We haven't heard them say a single word about the girl who ran out of teeth a few blocks from here a few days ago attacked by a few minas. We haven't heard them say a word of Palencia's man, assaulted by a magrebi because he was eating a ham sandwich. We haven't heard them say a word of Melilla's young Muslim and gay, assaulted by being gay by another Magrebí. We haven't heard them say any of that, nothing. When the victims don't serve to demonize VOX, you shut up. And it turns out that it's just homophobes and xenophobes of VOX that defend the young Melilla. When crimes do not serve you, you remain silent. How many banners, how many calls to commissions have there been in these cases? There hasn't been any. You are capable of everything so as not to recognize the close relationship between the insecurity experienced by the Spaniards and the so-called effect and the open door policy for which you are primarily responsible. The manipulation against VOX is the least, you want to gag the Spaniards while you are with the enemies of the Spaniards, who are the ones who assault our borders, those who want to bring us to ruin, those who want to divide the country and want them to sow panic in the streets. Leave now, Mr. Sanchez, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you ask me about the enemies of Spain and you have come, more or less, to disqualify yourself, and also to list them. He spoke about the various parliamentary groups here in the House. Obviously, if those are the enemies of Spain and I - according to you - covenant with them, for also to you I am an enemy of Spain. [[Rumors]] In the end, where does all this nonsense lead? How sad you defend Spain, Your Honor, in which only you and those who think and believe like you, and there is not a large majority of Spanish citizenship! That is the difference between you and us: we defend a social model in which we all fit - you too - and you don't, you just defend a model of country in which those who believe, feel and think like you belong. And we come to that point where you consider dialogue to be an attack on reason, because what a betrayal it is to dialogue with one who thinks differently than one! That's what you do. Your Honor, when there have been ministers who have tried to contact you, or when I myself have tried to contact you, you do not put yourself on the phone. You do not speak to the Government of Spain, because, indeed, as you rightly say, you recognize it as illegitimate. Yesterday I learned that your parliamentary group is calling for the Congressional Equality Commission to be eliminated by an alleged waste of money. What can this do to defend equality between men and women for the Spanish far right? Of course, you will never discuss a dialogue with those people and political groups who think differently. But that is the essence of democracy, Your Honor. The essence of democracy is dialogue, negotiation and compromise. That was what the 1978 Constitution represented. That is what the Government is doing by negotiating and dialogue with the social partners to defend the work of those employees and, also, those self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, to which you previously referred. Dialoging is also talking with the autonomous communities, which is what we have done throughout this crisis through co-government, or with small and medium-sized municipalities, or with the European Union, centralising vaccine purchases or driving European funds. Your Honor, that is what makes a healthy and strong democracy: dialogue, agreement and also, logically, negotiation. Finally, there is little I can add to this question, because the problem is that you and I do not talk or dialogue, even in this format of parliamentary questions. You come here, drop your speech and it's over. That's his way of understanding democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S CRITERIA IN THE DECISIONS OF INVERSION IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00614]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u15	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. President. What is the Government's approach to deciding on investments in Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u18	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The first of political will, because, in fact, what we do is listen to the citizens. Note that we have raised the tolls in Catalonia, which has been one of the long-awaited demands of Catalonia's citizens over the past few years. The second is that the Government has also complied with the law, as there is a statutory commitment to public investment in Catalonia that we have respected in these General State Budgets and that we will re-respect in the draft General State Budgets that we are going to present in the near future. And the third, that we are a government that is also committed to the climate emergency, and what it does logically are environmentally friendly investments. These are the three criteria: to listen to the citizenry, to comply with what is mandated by the law and, finally, to respect the environmental commitment of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u19	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u20	Thank you very much. We're going to go to the last investment, or at least an investment announcement. The Government announces an investment plan to expand El Prat airport on a protected natural space. All of a sudden, this investment plan has the rejection of Europe for anti-ecological; it has the rejection of half of that same government for anti-ecological; it also has the rejection of its vice-president for anti-ecological; in fact, it even has the rejection of the mayor of Barcelona, with which they govern, because it was an anti-ecological plan, and it also has the rejection of that investment plan of all - all - environmental organizations because it was an anti-ecological plan. Who's to blame for not making that plan? They have guessed: the Catalans, specifically the Republican Left. Yes, Republican Esquerra was, we are, against that investment plan of El Prat airport for anti-ecological. In fact, we simply do what Europe says and does, because we and we are politicians and politicians, we are not contractors of AENA. And you? Are you or aren't you? Mr President, an investment, a dialogue, a negotiation, is not a gift, nor is it a surrender. We will always, always, be willing to dialogue, to talk, to negotiate, but from you to you, without impositions. And I'm warning you, as today the dialogue and negotiation table begins. If it fails, independence will not fail; if we disappoint, it will not only disappoint independence, it will also disappoint the Spanish left. And if they disappoint, VOX will enter Moncloa and it will hurt us all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rufián, then I infer that we are all divided except the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which agreed with the whole block in favour of the enlargement of El Prat. [[Applauds]] Okay. Appreciate it. The fact is, Your Honor, it's a big investment. I think it's a necessary investment for Catalonia. That's my impression. I think it would also be good for Barcelona. AENA's proposal not only incorporated compensatory measures, in fact, in the allocation of La Ricardo, but also justified turning the hub of Barcelona into an intercontinental hub, while the hub of Madrid became, as it is today, a Latin American hub. This government, of course, will respect all the rules of the European directives, of course we will respect any parameters that have to do with the environmental impact. I'd miss more! It is no longer just a question of legality, it is also a question of conviction. This Government has already expressed itself. Of the first things we decided at the first Councils of Ministers was to declare the climate emergency in our country; we are the government that has elevated the ecological transition and the demographic challenge to the Vice-President category; we are the government that last May adopted the Climate Change Act - thanks also to the support of the Republican Left, its parliamentary group, and I thank it -; we are the government that has launched a National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan that has been recognized as the best in the European Union; we are a government that will allocate more than 30% - around 40% - to green investments and we are a government committed to the climate emergency, Your Honor. But I think that it is wrong to stigmatise a sector, such as the airport sector, which is so important in industrial and employment terms in our country. Therefore, return to the agreement of 2 August and let us continue. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENT CONSEQUENCES FOR THE ECONOMY OF OUR HOUSES AND ENTERPRISES OF THE HISTORY RECORD IN THE PRICE OF ELECTRICITY? [[File number 180/00622]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u23	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u24	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, we always speak well of Spain, but we criticize your evil government, which is doing so much damage to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Mrs Calviño, it is no longer just electricity, which has risen by 35%, it is gasoline which has risen by 20% or diesel by 18%. Inflation is beginning to be a serious problem for Spain. But let's focus on the light today. Yesterday - late, as always - you approved a plan that you called grandiosely shock plan, but which is summed up in a new patch, deferred receipts and market interventionism. My question is: what will be the long-term consequences of the historical record of light on the economies of families and businesses? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u25	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u26	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Gamarra, as the President of the Government has just pointed out, the Government is working for the general interest: in the short term, taking measures to cushion the impact on the reception of light, and in the medium and long term, with a clear green transition plan to have the cheapest and cleanest possible energy as soon as possible and to have a fair transition. In the face of this responsibility, for its part, there is only anger and occurrences, they do not defend the general interest and even attack the interest and image of Spain. No mistake, they have attacked not the Government but the image and interest of Spain in international forums. We are at a key moment in defining the future of our country, a time when we all have to shoulder it - as the President has said - when we all have to turn in the same direction. I hope they finally start to add and stop dividing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u27	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u28	Madam Vice President, let's go to the real economy. Can you tell this hotel in Granada that it paid 1392 euros of light and in one month it has paid 2087 euros of light - 50% more - than next month it will pay less? [[sample two invoices]] [[A Member: What a barbarity!]] More than 55% of the energy cost is divided between taxes, emission allowances, subsidies for renewables and tolling of the nuclear moratorium; 55% is suffocating citizens. What are you doing with the additional CO2 emissions revenues? Why not apply the whole, more than EUR 2300 million, to the benefit of the Spaniards? Stop threatening businesses and interfering with markets to get absolutely nothing, or rather, to get two problems where there was one before. You too are saying that you are not going to leave anyone behind, but you leave behind the Spanish economy, that you are going to be the last to recover because of your chaotic economic policy, and you leave the citizens who cannot use the light with peace. Is that the right recovery? Madam Vice-President, every time the Socialist Party governs the electricity system goes into deficit and electricity goes up. Last time they accumulated a debt of 27 billion euros that we are paying all in each receipt of light and increase the light by 60%. But now, you seem willing to beat your own record, of course, by paying it out of the pockets of the Spaniards. Pedro Sánchez is committed to lowering the receipt to the 2018 price, the highest price in history. Do you subscribe to that price? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u30	Thank you, President. Your Honor, our Government has been deploying a clear and coherent plan since 2018 to have the cheapest and cleanest possible energy as soon as possible and, in addition, to have a fair transition. Amidst the energy transition there has been a rise in prices on international markets affecting Europe as a whole. That is why we have taken a battery of effective measures, aimed at cushioning the impact on consumers' pockets and paying this year, roughly, as in 2018. Faced with this responsible action, which thinks of the present and also of the future, the only alternatives of his party are that the charges are paid with taxes and reopening the coal. In short, let the price rise be paid by taxpayers and let us reverse this necessary ecological transition. That is, leaving our children a mountain of debt, an unsustainable economy and an uninhabitable world. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u32	Moreover, in the last 24 hours they have shown that their interest, the interest they defend, is that of the big energy companies and not the interest of the citizens. They have a very negative view of Spain at a key time for the future. I'll tell you what my vision is. After a very hard period, we finally have the tail wind. We cannot control when or how it blows, nor can we prevent it from being raided, but we can guide the sails well and, above all, keep them all in the same direction in order to reach a good port and have a strong, sustainable and just recovery. Please, ladies and gentlemen, join the boat. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE ECONOMIC POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO THE DEFENCE OF THE GENERAL INTEREST OF FAMILIES AND WORKERS? [[File number 180/00620]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u33	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, you are here today as the first Vice-President of the Government. I stress the first, because there are already so many vice presidents and ministers and high offices that it is difficult to follow them all; altogether, for nothing, because here only one sends, here only the one who laughs, the one who is sitting on his left and is laughing - knows who I mean -, says Pedro Sánchez. In addition, he commands according to the interests not of Spain or the Socialist Party - as his predecessor knows on that chair - he commands according to the interests exclusively of Pedro Sánchez. In any case, being Vice-President of the Government of Spain should be a great honour and, if necessary, being a part of this Government is a huge disgrace and not only that, it is the foreword of the loss of professional prestige, as is happening with many of those who have preceded it. Note that Mr. Pedro Sánchez crushes people close to him, even faster than you to yours, is a very remarkable thing. And if not, look what you have around you: you have a second vice president, a Marxist living room, who you're creeping down the street and you're losing prestige day by day and you have a third vice president - I think, I'm losing myself - who vice president over the most expensive light in history. It is a true example of how the Government is burning everyone who goes through there. However, the problem is not that they burn the ministers or senior officials, the problem is that you are burning the Spaniards. We also have Mr Marlaska, who has gone from being the minister who should be keeping the security of all Spaniards, to being the minister who points out four million Spaniards and accuses them of crimes that never existed. We have Mr Bolaños, who passed by to be the brains of the Moncloa and has proved to be the brains of what the Constitutional Court has declared to be the most serious illegal home arrest in the history of all Spaniards. Madam Minister, under these conditions, do you believe that the government's policy responds to the defence of the general interest of the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u36	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the government's economic policy defends the general interest of the Spanish, defends above all the general interest of the families, the workers and the younger. The best symptom is that you are not able to argue anything and you are dedicated to attacking government people in your personal capacity. [[Applauds]] Our economic policy is guided by three principles, which we know perfectly well because we have exchanged them and I have repeatedly explained them in this Chamber: fiscal responsibility, social justice and progressive structural reforms looking to the future. I understand that this progressive agenda does not fit your party because it is precisely the enemy of progress, but I am sure that it is the policy that the vast majority of the Spanish population wants, that Spain that was spoken of by the president of the government who is open, who is solidarity and who looks to the future with hope. Our policy has as a priority to support families and especially young people by making efforts to create stable jobs; improving access to decent housing, supporting their struggle for a cleaner and more sustainable environment in the medium term so that they can develop their lives in freedom while respecting their diversity, because we believe that caring for the future is caring for young people. This is the approach of the Government, you know it very well. I do not understand why such personal attacks do not contribute at all to improving the future of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u37	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u38	Minister, I don't know what personal attacks you're referring to, but what I do believe is that you should live well in that bubble of Moncloa, that caviar bubble you're living in. Do you know what's going on? That in its progressive case is to progress, what portfolior is to portfolio. You are stealing the progress of this country. You're telling me about young people?: 40% paro. Are you telling me about the job?: 725,000 employees less than when you arrived in the government. Are you talking to me about economics?: 10.7% fall in gross domestic product; the worst fall in the West, Minister. And you vice president over this disaster. And you know what's going on? That it's not that you don't leave anyone behind, it's that we'll just go ahead when we leave you behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u39	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u40	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, you know very well that this is a country that has responded well to the pandemic, it is a collective success that we should all be proud of. He knows well that he is a beloved and respected country, that he is going to be one of the engines of economic recovery. Moreover, you are well aware that this affection and respect have recently been projected with the President of the European Commission, when she said that Spain embodies the best values and soul of Europe. He knows that there are many reasons to be proud of our country, many reasons in recent weeks, with which we have had a sense of moving forward, of being able to look to the future with hope and confidence. And I tell you that I understand that it bothers you that we are in the government, because our country vision is opposed to yours, but, to be clear, this government works every day for and for the citizens. We have all the Spaniards in our heads, but, above all, in our hearts. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND CHALLENGE TO PROTECT FOR THE SUBJECT OF LIGHT? [[File number 180/00623]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u41	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u42	Mrs Díaz, I'm really sorry about the bad time you had yesterday, but I've been warning you for a while that Spain can't stand your government anymore. Where is the struggle for the workers?I don't say that, I told you yesterday a mad worker. The workers are worse than the People's Party; I don't say that, a party partner told you yesterday, that the workers are better off with the People's Party. Aren't you ashamed to laugh at the workers' faces?; I don't say it, a worker who's mad at his management tells him. Your motherhood is misery; I do not say so, as the citizens say, who have seen energy poverty turn into energy poverty. That's why I feel like you're going through it like this, but today you should think, you should stop applauding Sánchez and grab Pablo Casado's extended hand to solve Spain's problems. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u44	That's why my question is: are you going to keep clapping Sánchez, are you going to take the popular party's extended hand or are you going to come out and show up on the street? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u45	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u46	Mr García Aegean, the question you are asking speaks badly of the People's Party. He asks about one of the main problems in our country. It would be good if you didn't frivolize with them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u47	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u48	Mrs Díaz, what a disappointment for your voters, for the workers and for Spain in general! With you only the rich can iron at any time of the day; that is frivolizing. Sanchez says you have to tie your shoulder: all but you, who still have the most expensive government in history; the rest, to pay. Look, the energy misery that we suffer today is not the fault of Putin or the European Union, nor of the marginal costs or the hydroelectric costs, it is your responsibility, with the President of the Government at the head. That guilt about energy poverty must therefore begin to solve it. Yesterday they took one of the measures of the People's Party - they are well given to copy the People's Party - and suspended the special tax on electricity. You say you care a lot about the poor, but when you rule, the poor multiply. That is why I ask you to continue to copy the measures of the People's Party, so that the Spanish pay only for the energy consumed. Mrs Díaz, I will put to you a very simple rule of three, and I would like one day, out of respect for the citizens who listen to us, to answer us. If with 8% energy rise Mr Rajoy had to resign, according to Pedro Sánchez, with 200 % energy rise, what should you and your entire government do? Answer me, please. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u49	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u50	Mr García Aegean, you have a problem: either you do not understand how the electricity market works or, simply, what you want is to hide the poor management of the People's Party in this matter. [[Rumors]] Look, I'm going to talk to you about 1996, when a minister from Mr Aznar...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u52	... told us that with the privatization of the energy sector there was going to be a real electric revolution in Spain, to lower the price of light. Since that date, Mr. García Aegean, the bill for light has not stopped growing. But I'm going to give you another piece of information. Since you sell the last package of Endesa for 7 billion euros - withhold the data, Mr García Aegean - in the last ten years the shareholders of that same company that you sold have pocketed 27 641 million euros in dividends. Mr García Aegean, listen: EUR 7 billion and EUR 27 641 million. This is the policy that you defend from the People's Party. You're talking about taxes, Mr. García Aegean. If anyone has recorded the bill of light with taxes, reaching the sun, it has been the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And when the Spanish government lowers taxes, you do not vote in favour of the Spanish government. But not only that, Mr. García Aegean: your management was so bad that with the hydraulic canon it cost the Spaniards the joke 1400 million euros. [[Rumors]] Faced with this disastrous management, Mr. García Aegean, the Government of Spain is working to defend the people, it is lowering the bill of light... [[the rumors continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u54	... you are protecting the weakest and, Mr. García Aegean, you are doing something that has never been done in this country, which is reducing those gross profits that some companies have. While you are on the side of those who are generating noise at this time, the Government of Spain is defending your country. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: IS THE HISTORICAL SCALE OF THE ELECTRIC FACTURAL REASON SUFFICIENTLY REASONFUL FOR HIS DIMISSION? [[File number 180/00624]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u55	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u56	Thank you, President. Mrs. Díaz, either you don't know the story or you don't know what you're talking about when it comes to the Spanish electrical system. The first privatisations of public energy companies were signed by Felipe González, president of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] In 2011 we were left 27 billion euros of tariff deficit, which means an annual invoice payment of 25 billion euros. Mrs Díaz, if you do not know about this subject, please refrain from speaking. We and all the Spaniards would appreciate it. [[Applauds]] Mrs Ribera, you are absolutely overwhelmed by this matter and this circumstance. All the indicators anticipated what was going to happen and you made deaf ears. Do you remember January, in the Filomena crisis? It was just going to be a few eurillos; that's what you said, Mrs Ribera. Do you therefore consider that your lack of capacity - I insist, lack of capacity - to deal with this energy crisis makes it impossible for you to remain Vice-President? Should you now ask for your resignation and resign from that position? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u57	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u58	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. Mariscal. I wonder whether the People's Party is able to speak with dignity about the energy transition, about the modernisation of energy, about consumer protection, and what is its version this morning: whether the government should act, whether it should be quiet, whether it should lower taxes, whether it should raise taxes, whether it should intervene in the extraordinary profits of the companies, as you proposed urging them to adopt a CO2 reduction law three weeks before we did, repenting immediately afterwards, or whether they are going to seek a way to avoid again their responsibilities with that heritage of which they do not speak, the 10 billion arbitral awards, which made us stink in the field of international investors, and that tax on the sun, which my partner was talking about and which generated a great battle with all the electricity companies and small renewable investors, or whether it seems reasonable to them to create new taxes, to raise the type of VAT and then to vote against our decree-law, which precisely promoted a contention of VAT this year. [[rumors]] So tell me, please, what is your version of this morning, to see if we can better understand what you are talking about when it comes to facilitating consumers' consumption of light at decent prices. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u59	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u60	What arrogance, Mrs Ribera! Do you realize why you are unable to deal with this problem? For his arrogance. I make it a very simple calculation, let's think of each other. If the European funds are EUR 69 billion and you left EUR 27 billion in 2011, is it serious or not? Are the Socialist Party's energy policies failed or not? Ask him, Mrs Ribera. We believe that the great beneficiary of this reform that you are proposing is the government, which is going to see budget revenues down by zero, not one euro. Why? Because rising energy prices plus revenue from CO2 means that it has no effect on the government's coffers. Our bill - listen carefully - shifted the effort of families, consumers, businesses, industry, which you have had as public enemy number one, to whom you can most, to whom you have the most capacity, to the Government. That is what we were proposing, transferring non-energy costs to the government's general state budgets and also entering new CO2 revenues. That is the proposal we made, in no case intervention. I would like to conclude with what was published yesterday in the Financial Times, which I imagine you will read assiduously: Colder heads must prevail to allow markets to operate normally. And the following is also dedicated to you: The actions of the political leaders in Spain - that goes for you - could hinder the incentives for companies to invest in renewable energies. They are a risk to investment in our country, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u61	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u62	Thank you very much. I'd like you to clarify a few things for me. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u64	The first, for example, what does this mean for the government to pay? I understand that you mean that Spanish taxpayers pay and force Mrs Montero to increase the tax burden. [[applause.-Mr.Mariscal Anaya makes negative signs]] What do you mean when you talk about failed inheritances? Are you referring to the 10 billion awards, the 1500 million canon, the loss of credibility of Spain as an investor destination or the invoice that we have to pay for its delay, its ban on the closure of non-viable plants, forgetting the workers and the regions, with an unprecedented social cost? Are you referring to the lack of collection of the sun tax? Or does it refer to any of the measures we have taken? I don't know which ones you like, if it's bad for you that there's a transfer of resources from CO2 revenue to compensate... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Well, it's done. Or if it's bad for you that we contain the price of gas on domestic bills and SMEs, if it's bad for you that there's an energy auction to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SANTAMARIA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: TO THE GAMES? [[File number 180/00626]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u66	Questions to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Luis Santamaría Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u67	Mrs Llop, Mr Sánchez is a unique specimen: he always lies, he lies to everyone and he lies all the time. His words quote at the same level as junk bonds and in an inversely proportional way as the price of light rises. I ask you: When Sanchez said he was willing that the PSOE would stop proposing to the members of the Council, was he wrong? When I said that I did not agree that it was the political parties that decided on the composition of the Council, did I lie? Can you explain to us what has changed? Could you explain to me why you have decided to confront the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission and the four associations of judges, when everyone agrees that Council Members are elected by their peers? Mrs Llop, Europe has opposed all your attempts to devalue the rule of law, because Europe is the rule of law and the separation of powers, and, unfortunately and because of the Sánchez Government and as Mr Reynders complained, the confidence of the Spanish people in judicial independence has dropped four points in just ten months. Mrs Llop, the Socialists know that negotiation and submission are not synonymous, and also that insults, disqualifications and improbations are not a source of reason. We were disqualified and they said we were talking about all the laws, and you in the Senate yesterday said we were moving on from the Constitution. You know that we are not going to break in, that we are not going to be your accomplices and that we are not going to surrender or submit. I take it the question is reproduced. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u68	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to greet your ladies and gentlemen, because this is the first time I have the honour to speak in this Chamber. Your Honor, Mr Santamaría, thank you for your question. What I agree with is that you abide by the Constitution. [[Applauds]] And, look, Your Honor, explain it well. In the current system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary that we have, the judiciary, judges and judges, already propose to the twelve judicial members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Don't confuse... [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, read the law, which doesn't seem to have been read. It is a system endorsed by the Constitutional Court, a system that you, when you have had an absolute majority, have not changed. What you have done has been to delimit the General Council of the Judiciary when you have been able to legislate, that is what you have done. You know why? Because what they want is not three powers with three functions, but a power with three functions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u70	Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u71	Mrs. Llop, tell us again that we do not comply with the Constitution. Do you know what it's like not to comply with the Constitution? To declare a state of alarm that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional or to violate national sovereignty, as you did, by annulling a vote forty-eight hours after it took place because Mr. Sánchez did not get the result well; that is to violate the Constitution. [[applause]] And you also make reference to the absolute majority. Do you know why we don't change it? Because that new religion that is sanchism had not arrived and because Europe did not demand it either; and that new religion, unfortunately, has been eaten by sensible socialism. Mrs Llop, you also dared to mention Mr Lesmes yesterday. I imagine you will share your criticism of the Government's interference with the issue of pardons, which you made clear in your opening speech of the judicial year. Mrs Llop, you talk about institutional loyalty and you sit with whom you sit and you agree with whom you want to break national unity. Mrs Llop, know that freedom always wins and that the Sanchez government is on time for a discount. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u72	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u73	Your Honor, return to the constitutional framework, I have to tell you. [[Laughter]] Yeah, his laughs are directly proportional, but in reverse... you know what? To his sense of state. That's how you laugh. [[Applauds]] Yeah, I told the president. The five-year deadline is not indicative, it is a deadline that needs to be met, and Commissioner Reynders has also said, with whom I met three days after taking the portfolio of the Ministry of Justice. [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz shows a text on a tablet]] Get out of the institutional blockade, because you are not making opposition to the government, you are making opposition to Spain. They have blocked the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court, and are repeated. You have done so during the V, VIII and the last three legislatures, when you have not ruled, when you have lost in the ballot box. Ladies and gentlemen, you have blocked, obstructed the renewal of the governing body of judges and judges for a period of one, two and almost three years in this legislature. With their blockades they have robbed the citizenry six years of the General Council of the Judiciary. When you have absolute majority - and I have told you - you do not change the system of choice. But what you did in 2013 with a law of you, of Mr Ruiz-Gallardón, was to modify it so that there would be fifteen second-class vowels, fifteen part-time vowels, which obviously generates an absolute dysfunction in the governing body... [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz makes negative signs.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEP PAYE I MASSÓ, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT REASONED IN THE CONSIDERATION OF THE 'ADMINISTRATIVE BODY' OF THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS, AS RECENTLY AS THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00612]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u75	Question by Mr Josep Pagès i Massó, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u76	Minister, is the Spanish Government ratified as an administrative body of the Court of Auditors, as the President of the Government recently stated?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u77	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u78	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Government absolutely respects the actions of all the courts and constitutional bodies, including, logically, the Court of Auditors, which is, of course, also pending renewal, together with the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Ombudsman's Office. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u79	Mr. Pagès.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u80	Minister, the Court of Auditors is an endogamous body immersed in a state of institutional corruption, politically partial, obsessed with Catalonia's legitimate political action and determined to ruin the families of Catalan independence leaders, but, above all, it is a legal engineer that does not fit the European parameters of judicial independence. Minister, President Sánchez said in June that the Court of Auditors is an administrative body, and it is an administrative body, but at the same time it issues orders and judgments, under popular sovereignty and on behalf of the King; it makes judgments, without the directors of accounts being members of the judiciary or having any legal knowledge, regardless of any kind, because they answer to the General Courts, which appoints them and can dismiss them for disciplinary reasons. Minister, the same body decides administratively and in first and second instance, so there is no full remedy, but only cassation before the Supreme. In short, the Court of Auditors is a black hole in the rule of law, a special jurisdiction outside judicial control that violates European law and the principles of judicial unity, judicial independence and, above all, access to jurisdiction, and Europe knows nothing about this. What the Spanish Government must do once and for all is to stop hiding the shame of the Court of Auditors in Europe, to include its activity in the reports that the Ministry, Minister, sends annually to the European institutions of control, such as GRECO. We look forward to what GRECO is going to say in a court composed of political delegates, the majority of whom are ultra-right, against whom there are no remedies. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u81	Minister of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u82	Your Honor, it is my duty and it is my duty, in view of the statements you have made against the Court of Auditors, to say that it is a constitutional body, which, as Minister of Justice, deserves all respect. And I think it is necessary to respect all the constitutional bodies, and to respect them is also to renew them, I insist. As for the statements made by the President of the Government - and I will now answer your question - I honestly do not see what concerns you. As for the fact that the Court of Auditors is an administrative body, not a judicial body - that is exactly what you asked me - and that its decisions can be appealed to the courts, it is clear that the Court of Auditors is not a judicial body and is not part of the judiciary. It is also true that it has a supervisory role, it is a court that has an accounting function of a jurisdictional nature, but it is not within the ordinary jurisdiction, Your Honor. [[Mr Pagès i Massó shows a document]] That is why, moreover, the Court of Auditors cannot become a judicial body of ordinary jurisdiction, which is what you seem to be trying to do with your intervention. What is of concern to this Government is what I am pointing out, that the institutions should be able to act normally, with full capacity and with full implementation of their constitutional functions. And what is not normal, Your Honor, is that the Court of Auditors is already extended and cannot normally perform such important functions because it is affected by an institutional blockade policy such as the one being carried out by the People's Party. Respect for democracy, Your Honor, is respect for the laws and is also respect for the game of parliamentary majority, because that is respect for the citizenship, which has given us, which has given you, above all, your worthy trust. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY DOES HE refuse to resign? [[File number 180/00619]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u83	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the false homophobic aggression of Malasaña has again demonstrated its vileness. You started blaming VOX, and when the police found out the truth you blamed the police for not informing him earlier. Your repeated sectarian conduct makes you a danger to the coexistence, freedom and security of the Spaniards and, of course, a disgrace to the forces and bodies under your command. In these circumstances, why don't you resign at once, as I do today on behalf of VOX again? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u85	Minister for the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I have already told you on one occasion that I was not going to give you any excuse for not getting early on Wednesdays, but, given the falsehoods that you continue to see and that it seems that you cannot depart from them, I can only tell you that if those are your reasons and those of your parliamentary group to request my resignation, the falsehoods, I have no desire to resign, that is, to be calm, to sit down, to rest, which you have for at least two more years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u87	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u88	You shouldn't be so smug in this House when all she knows is she saved herself from the July ministerial burn because Sanchez failed the substitute at the last minute. But apart from this, let's put things in place. The only widespread hate speech in Spain is that mounted by the government, its partners and the media left with the intention of criminalizing four million Spaniards to exclude them from political life; a hate speech promoted by the government that is generating constant physical violence against VOX and that you facilitate and feed. And they do because, in short, they know that VOX is already the only alternative left to confront this useless and sectarian government born of the colossal electoral fraud committed by Sánchez to the Spaniards in the polls. However, we're not going to sing. Neither their threats nor their violence nor their whoredoms will prevent us from continuing our duty to the Spaniards to prevent you from definitively loading Spain and sinking even further into misery millions of compatriots. We are going to do it, day by day, by more and more Spaniards, and we are going to do it for Spain, for democracy, for freedom, for harmony and for social justice. That's evidence you're afraid of, that's evidence that allows some 'pregnant' driven by some 'ruffian' to say that VOX has to be killed. Minister for the Interior, if you keep a minimum of political shame, instead of coming here to talk nonsense, go home now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u89	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I recommend greater peace of mind, greater calm, that you be more careful in your public political discourses and do not expose viscerality, which can be misunderstood. We politicians, the Spanish society want us to solve problems, so that within this government of the Socialist Party and the United Nations we can make progressive security policies. What are these progressive security policies? Salary equalization, an infrastructure plan for the Police and the Civil Guard, a real and effective migration policy, providing the Asylum and Refugee Office with the necessary means, a policy of coordination in civil protection, when we are seeing the harmful consequences of climate change for society as a whole, and security, and for that to conclude plans, planning and coordination, as you know we are doing in all these aspects. We work in road safety, in the reform of the Traffic Act that you have here, in the amendment of different road safety regulations, having no good results, because in road safety you never have good results, but at least not so bad. We work in all these areas, which are important and relevant and in making values policy, to really believe in equality, in the non-generation of hatred, in issues on which you have always lost. For example, you opposed laws such as labor, equal marriage, the Children's Act, and you lost and society supported us. He opposed the Historical Memory Act and the exhumation of the dictator. You were wrong, and Spanish society helped us. Not patrimonializing Spain, not patrimonializing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT A BODY IN HIS MINISTER MAY DECIDE AN ADMINISTRATIVE ACT THAT REASONS THE LIFE OF A PERSON WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF HIS MOTIVAL AND THAT, FOR SO MANY, ITS ACCESS TO THE TRIBUNALS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00615]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u92	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. He asked whether he considered it reasonable for an organ of his ministry to issue an administrative act which would cause serious harm to a person's life, without being able to know his motivation and thus prevent his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u94	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. You know how much I feel about you and your parliamentary group, but your question is still a bit cryptic to me, and I don't know if it's a little bit rounding up Rule 186 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. With which, in order to respond reasonably, I would like it to be a little more explicit, if possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u96	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u97	Minister, it's not a hypothetical case, it's named after Patxi Zamora Aznar. In 2017, a laconic not fit by the Civil Guard made him lose his job as Iberia's assistant after thirty-one years of performance. Year and a half later, he received indirect news that the Civil Guard information service had qualified him as a person close to potentially dangerous environments and, in February of this year, the Government, to written questions from our parliamentary group, tells us that the Civil Guard reports are to prevent threats to air security - and I quote literally - that, on the other hand, Mr. Zamora in the 2007 local elections was part of a list of ANV, annulled by the Supreme Court for his connection with Batasuna. For his part, Mr. Zamora has come to the most that the Civil Guard, last month, is shielded in the Official Secrets Act to deny him any information telling him that, if this exists, his person would be restricted. Minister, the Civil Guard is shielded by the Official Secrets Act. The government tells us things that allow us to sense the truth through its shadows, as in Plato's cave, and Mr. Zamora, as in the Kafka process, is suffering a conviction, ignorant of his motivation, and the clarification procedure is slowly becoming another conviction. Minister, do you think this is reasonable? Not our group, and that is why we ask why they block the PNV initiative for the reform of the Official Secrets Act and why they do not declassify the case. Even the United States is declassifying information related to the 11-S. Minister, do not allow in your department climates of inaccessibility to justice and the law, trials with judgments on a citizen in which such a weak connection with the security seems to cover only personal choices of their evaluators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u98	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Now I can answer more clearly. The question you raised to me was before the Socialist Government came to power and this minister came to the Ministry of the Interior. We are aware that there are various judicial proceedings pending in this regard. We know, of course, as you well know, that all the actions of the Administration are susceptible - it would be more lacking - to judicial control. We are informed, with regard to what it indicates, a contentious-administrative claim in the sixth section of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice of Madrid; two claims, one civil and one administrative, against AENA, not knowing the body or organs before which they were presented, and a labor claim, also in a social court of Madrid. I am not going to make any assessment on this, but I do have to correct it when it comes to talking or instigating political persecution. It is European regulation, Regulation 2019/103 - you know it - that regulates how you can access restricted areas of airports. There are also defence mechanisms, such as the assessment of the suitability of personnel in the field of Civil Aviation. The car, as you know, is in court. There are no procedures that deny the defence of any interest. With regard to the Official Secrets Act and what it is understood to be the classified information law, there is no will to block by the ministerial department that I lead, but on the contrary, within the scope of presenting a proposal, a really efficient draft, guided by the criteria of security, defence, but also of transparency of the entire administration. I would like to reiterate once again that there is no desire to block, but quite the contrary. It's time for a new classified information law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES AND MASTER LINES OF THE MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY FOR THE POLITICAL COURSE THAT IS ENJOYED? [[File number 180/00617]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u100	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u101	Mr. Bolaños, what will be the priorities of your ministry at this beginning of the political course?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u102	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Bal. The priorities of this Government and this Ministry are, first and foremost, a fair recovery, that is, to accompany the economic growth that we are going to have, also of social cohesion, more wealth, more rights, more freedoms, more social protection. Secondly, to implement the regulatory plan, the social and economic agenda that we recently adopted in the Council of Ministers, so that we can transform and improve our country. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to try to strengthen the rule of law and democratic institutions; we are going to pretend that everyone respects the law, everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u104	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u105	Mr Bolaños, and for this I have heard you ask the opposition for a sense of state? This afternoon, you, with a part of the Government of Spain, are going to humiliate yourself before the separatists. Are you really proud of this government, of what it is up to you to do this afternoon? I regret that your debut here is with this question, because I wish you well, that it will be that of all the Spaniards, but it is that you start in a sense contrary to the reality of the problems of the Spaniards. Look, from yesterday to today, 20 euros plus the megawatt. This morning, about five hours ago, the bakery ovens were lit. Bakeries are paying 250% more for electricity than last year, and all this is moving into the shopping basket that all Spaniards pay; a drama, just like that of rising fuel prices. And you continue with the agenda of the reunion, with the 2030 Agenda. Do you know what agenda the Spaniards are worried about? The one when they can put the washing machine on. You come here in the morning and ask us for a sense of state and in the afternoon you cut the state with Republican Left of Catalonia. And its star measure to end the problem of light is the kick forward, that the problems caused today by its negligence will be paid for by future generations. It is the same mistake that the People's Party made twenty years ago, which is one of the causes of the problems we have today. You do not learn from mistakes of your own or from mistakes of others, and I do not want my children and grandchildren to pay for their negligence in management. Sit down at a table, yes, with energy experts to solve this problem, and stop happenings and patches, which are costing us all Spanish. In his Government, the Sustainable Development Goals were summarized in one: supporting Sánchez in the Moncloa. That's why you have this table. Do you know who has a Citizens' table in Catalonia today? With the entrepreneurs of night entertainment, ruined by their mismanagement. You have a table to surrender to nationalism, to despise the real problems of the Spaniards and to insult equality. You've decided when to sit at this table, but-listen to me - you won't be able to decide when to get up from it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u106	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u107	Thank you very much. I see that you are not too interested in the objectives of the Government, economic growth, social cohesion or the extension of rights; and not only do I see that not because of the tone of your question, but because I have also heard that you are refusing to negotiate the State General Budgets Act, which is going to give stability and which is going to strengthen economic growth and social cohesion in this country. [[Applauds]] Moreover, they do so by simply refusing to sit down; that is, with a blank sheet, you are already against it. As far as Catalonia is concerned, Mr. Bal, I tell you we're off to a bad start if you think it's a humiliation to sit down. Of course we believe in the agenda of the reunion, of course we want the reunion with Catalonia, the rest of the Spaniards with the Catalans and also the one inside Catalonia. We want the Catalans themselves to find each other, to recover the affections that are one day becoming weary, to be able to weave them again, to let Catalonia cease to be one of the country's main political problems. And we have to do it - there is no other way in democracy - with dialogue. We have to make that effort from the Spanish Government, and of course we will. Look, in these circumstances, the brave thing is to dialogue and the useless thing is to empathize in the positions that led nowhere but to conflict. That's what I'm telling you, Mr. Bal. And I will do, if I may, just one plea: return to your parliamentary group, return to where you should never go, return to the useful centre. Because where there are many people; there is no one else. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: does the Government consider the temporary intervention of the Selga-Fagald Foundation after being known that, between other dark operations and tejemanejes, his father sold the Goya Table entitled 'Anibal Winner', donated with posteriority to the Prada Museum to form part of a legacy collection to be conserved and displayed in the cities? [[File number 180/00616]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u108	Question to the Minister for Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u109	Minister of Culture, the Asturians have been subjected to an intolerable artistic spoil as a result of peripecia and commercial rinses carried out within the Selgas-Fagalde Foundation. The president of the patronage, mocking the statutes of the foundation and after consummating various opaque operations parapeting in the lack of attention of the institutional representatives, promoted with impunity the non-compliance of the foundational purposes to sell a painting of Goya, whose property and site must be in Asturias for the enjoyment of all the Spaniards, but in Asturias. Hence I ask you if you contemplate the temporary intervention of the FundaciónSelgas-Fagalde after it is known that, among other dark weaves, its patronate misselled the painting of Goya entitled Hannibal winner, donated subsequently to the Prado Museum, despite being part of a collection legacy to be preserved and exhibited entirely in Asturias.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u110	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u111	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. From the information that appeared about this sale and other activities of the foundation, we have done what we have done has been to address it, as patronate of the foundations, to give us information about it. If that information was not complete or derived from it, some kind of irregularity or specific responsibility, do not hesitate that we would ask for the foundation's intervention, which in any case can only be agreed upon by the judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u112	Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u113	Mr. Iceta, indeed, the Foundations Act gives the Ministry of Culture the power to intervene temporarily in a foundation in which opaque and irregular actions have been detected. I understand that the Government of the principality has already requested this, in order to clarify this clever episode that commits to all those who have participated in it. Goya's painting has been expoliated to the Asturians with tricks and tricks, who were about to make effect with another work of El Greco, also subjected to cambalache in an attempt to take direction to the walls of a Hungarian museum. In short, his ministry cannot remain alien to what happened at the Selgas-Fagalde Foundation, which, being private, has been manipulated for profit and commercial purposes. With the law in hand, you must ask the judicial authority to agree, after hearing the employer's office, to intervene temporarily. At the same time, Minister, the Government should urgently correct this iniquity with Asturias and promote the restoration of Goya's work to the collection to which it belonged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u114	Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u115	Your Honor, I share with you the concern about the heritage and this painting, but perhaps you have to remember some things: this painting was in storage at the Prado Museum for ten years; the foundation put it for sale three years ago, asking for prices that it did not get, and finally, that transaction took place. As you said in the question, it is a private foundation and, therefore, if that transaction has been carried out in full respect of our laws, the Government will not be able to object at all. We have therefore proceeded to ask the Foundation for information and, if we see any irregularities or lack of detail in the crucial issues of that transaction or other activities of that Foundation, we will not hesitate for a moment to bring it to justice. It seems you may have more information than we do. You can also do it quietly. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UNDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT WILL THE GOVERNMENT DO TO FIGHT THE GREAT INCREASE OF MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS? [[File number 180/00613]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u116	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u117	Egun on. Good morning. Minister, Friday was World Day for Suicide Prevention. It served to give more visibility to the worrying reality that we have been suffering in our society with this growing evolution. Thus, for example, in our autonomous community and in Navarre we have almost four weekly suicides and in the state there are ten every day, something very serious; moreover, it is a growing trend. And that's only part of the health and health problem we have in the state. Before the pandemic there was already a large increase in mental health problems, not sufficiently addressed, but the pandemic and its aftermath are exacerbating this situation. That is why our question is what the Government will do, what the Government will do, to deal with the great increase in mental health problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u118	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, what the Government is going to do, and is already doing, is to place mental health at the epicentre of public health policies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u120	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u121	Indeed, it is necessary to put mental health at the center, but a year and a half of pandemic - a constant stressful factor - is assuming a significant increase in the pathologies of anxiety, depression, suicides, attempts... And in the face of this growing demand for mental health care, great human and economic resources are still lacking. In some cases, special extraordinary strategies to address the pandemic are being developed. For example, emotional health programmes are carried out in the Basque Autonomous Community, but there have been no more than eight thousand care sessions throughout this period. It's totally inadequate. The system is not prepared to respond to this growing demand. It is a demand that needs to be addressed from prevention, tracing and comprehensive care and must be made from the public, from a public health perspective. That is why we have come to ask you to act urgently. The Government must also respond to this situation. As you said, mental health must become a priority, but you must fulfil what you have been promising: here, in April, it was said that the special plan of the national strategy in this area would be brought in. We're still debating and discussing, and we still don't know what it's going to consist of, what it's going to contain, what means...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Throughout the whole pandemic, there has been much talk about the general health consequences, especially economic and social consequences, but little talk about the specific consequences in the area of mental health. It is true that we are talking about a latent, silent threat, and what this pandemic has done, as you have said, has been to increase it, to exacerbate it. No one has escaped vulnerability. That is why the Government is acting. What are we doing and what have we done? First, we have created the specialty of child psychiatry and adolescence, a major demand from the whole sector. Secondly, Your Honor, we are already working on and there is already a mental health strategy document, which, by the way, has not been updated since 2009. It is a strategy that has already been circulated to all parties involved and on which we have received approximately seven hundred allegations and contributions. Therefore, we are already on it. The scientific committee is analysing these contributions - seven hundred; a lot of interest, of course, from the autonomous communities, from the scientific societies, from family associations and patients - to then move them to the institutional committee. Of course, I think it is very important to be able to do so at this time and to do so at the hands of all your ladies and gentlemen too, because I have no doubt that this is a matter which must be raised and which will prompt the consensus of this House. First, it is part of the progress agreement between the forces that make up the Government. Secondly, it was an agreement of the Reconstruction Commission. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that we are going to count - at least this minister is going to try - on the consensus of this House. What are the vectors, roughly, of strategy? First, improve the autonomy of patients, putting us at the center of their recovery. Second, intervene in the prevention, detection and care of people with suicidal behaviour 3671 in 2019. By the way, last Friday, Suicide Prevention Day, was a day to shake our consciences, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, support for families is also very important and, above all, fighting the stigma, ladies and gentlemen, which is something for which we all have to mobilize. Without mental health there is no health, ladies and gentlemen. That is the determination of the Government to do so and by the hand of all parties involved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITA PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHY DOES THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS THAT THE GOVERNMENT RULE TO THE MOST VULNERABLE PERSONS WITH THE SCANDALOSE UNDER THE LIGHT? [[File number 180/00625]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u124	Question addressed to the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you remember the'stronger exits' or the 'we leave no one behind'? The poverty rate stood at 26.4%, at 620,000 new people. Over the past 12 months, 10.9% of the population has been unable to maintain their housing at an adequate temperature. One in three children lives at risk of poverty, 2.3 million children. And while we are in this Chamber, the light reaches historical peaks, and yesterday and the day before yesterday and last month. More than 1.2 million households are in energy poverty, mainly affecting women, single-parent households with children under the age of sixteen and large families. While you're struggling with your teammates, the Red Cross has seen more than 80% more deliveries of energy saving kits. Minister, what social policy is it that drowns families with the bill of light, fuel or shopping basket while your president tells us about pedagogy and you about empathy? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u126	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u127	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this Government is fully aware that there are so many people in our country who are afraid to open up the receipt of light at the end of the month, who have had to choose in the midst of the heat wave whether to buy some meat or put the air conditioning. We are so aware that yesterday in the Council of Ministers we took some of the bravest steps that a government has ever taken to do something that no other government had dared to do: to touch the privileges of electric power, to withdraw the benefits that electric power was reaping from charging for the cheapest energy, hydropower and nuclear energy, at the price of the most expensive, in this case gas. [[applause]] This government is so conscious because it listens and because it rules for people. Today, what was unworkable a few weeks ago is feasible, and this minister is very proud to have contributed with her actions to making it a reality in the BOE. Never before had a Government dared so much. And I tell you one thing very clearly, Your Honor: never would a People's Party government have done anything like that. [[Rumors]] And you know why? For you do not serve the people; you are servants of oligopoly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u128	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u129	Madam Minister, the bill of light and its incompetence have short-circuited your social shield. To hear you speak yesterday of vital minimum supply is to remember the failure of your vital minimum income: three out of four rejected petitions. They had to reach 2.3 million people: 330 000 benefits granted. And what about the thermal social bonus? Why today have you not transferred the amount or the data to the communities so that you can pay? Do you think there is no rush to help the most vulnerable? Look, minister, while you were working fresh in your hammock, millions of Spaniards were suffering from a heat wave with light in historical peaks. As you talk about drawing in the notebook in the Council of Ministers, millions of Spaniards don't get the bills. While you worry about the snowfall in Brazil in the middle of winter, millions of Spaniards are afraid to wait for the next wave of cold in this hemisphere. While you are making beefs, fruit and juices, I recognized a small hotel in Palma that, consuming less wattage, has to pay 200 euros more, and without aid; one more that closes, and there are four thousand in my community. Mrs. Belarus, focus and, if you don't know how to do it or if you don't want to, turn off and go. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u130	Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u131	Mrs Prohens, if you are so concerned about basic supplies, your parliamentary group should have voted in favour when this government brought here the ban on cuts in supplies during the pandemic. You voted against it. [[Applauds]] I'll read him some names, see if they ring a bell, Your Honor: Isabel García Tejerina; Fatima Báñez; Ángel Acebes; Ramon de Miguel; Pio Cabanillas. Do they ring a bell? Yeah, right? These are just some of the examples of the 175 senior officials, including eight ministers of the People's Party, who went directly from the Government to the electric oligopoly. His former leader, Mr. Aznar, privatized our public energy company, Endesa, and the only beneficiary of that operation was himself, who ended up sitting as an advisor on the same electricity that he had privatized. [[applause]] So, Your Honor, you're going to allow me not to accept even half a lesson from those who, like you, when you've always ruled, have always worked at the service of the electricians, who have sold the state to pieces so that we don't have enough tools to protect people and who also aspire to finish their biographies sitting on a board of directors. I guarantee you that you'll never see me sitting on a board of directors, we'll see what happens to you. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u132	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to report on the agenda and content of the agenda of the so-called "table of dialogue", in reality a table of self-determination, between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat of Catalonia scheduled for this week. For your defense, Mr. Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u133	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, welcome to this plenary, to the Congress of Deputies. When a few weeks ago the president of the government announced the meeting agenda, the high school rapporteur, we knew that the first stone of the meeting agenda would be what was called the dialogue table between Spain and Catalonia. Of the four nouns there is only one that is valid, which is that of the table. Catalonia is not represented there, Spain is not represented. When you talk about dialogue, the word dialogue is systematically prostituted and the gums of talking so much about dialogue, when you have prostituted, as I say, the word. Do you know what's going on? That the table was barefoot and it had to be laid a wedge, which is called the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in order to get under the feet of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. The Socialist Party of Catalonia has definitively joined the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] If you guys are looking for the reunion, I'm gonna tell you what you're gonna find. You will not meet again with that Catalonia that is not represented at the table, with that Catalonia that is not part of the tablecloths of influence, of the prebends, of the sinecures, of the privileges. This Catalonia is not present that is not victimized, that has civic courage, that does not need the legitimacy of victimization and revictimization, as does sedicant independence. No, they're not. That Catalonia is not going to be present, because no one has invited her. They are not invited; simply, they are not. I also tell you that you are not going to encounter decadent independence again. They've already called them accountants and weak. You think that when they cheat on everyone they also think they're cheating on them. We'll get to that throughout this interpellation. Thirdly, I would like to see, at least, primitive socialism, rational socialism, pragmatic socialism, socialism of the 1980s and 1990s. How bad the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has been in the 21st century. How bad the 21st century has been for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party! I will ask you one thing: Would you be willing to sit at the table today, with light and tachographs, Javier Lambán, Barbón, Armengol, Fernández Vara, García-Page? Madam Minister, do we sit down today at García-Page to listen to everything that is going to be heard there? Would you be willing to do that? Would you have the courage? By the way, I, as an Aragonese, would also like to be sitting at this table, and the others, who are part of other autonomous communities, and especially those who do not doubt our country. You're making Spanish first and second, but do you know what's going on? May you reward the first-rate Spaniards, who are disloyal with Spain. What a curious system the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has to create incentives and reward those who are disloyal to Spain and those who are loyal to Spain and our territories, nothing, absolutely nothing! Minister, will you invite me to that table? [[Applauds]] Out of curiosity, is there going to be a full record of what's going to be said? But let's keep going. The high school rapporteur - who has been here before answering the corresponding question - goes on to say that you are going to lead a new Spain, with a new Catalonia at the head. Look, every time you talk about news, I get really nervous. When you talked about the new normality, what you wanted to do was normalization, the breaking of freedoms, breaking with balance and territorial harmony, breaking with equality, which is ultimately the leitmotiv of any liberal state, no matter how much you tire it out and destroy it permanently. But do you know what's going on? That you broke the Constituent Covenant, and you broke it when you started talking about the new majority. What is the new majority, which inaugurated José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero? What's the new majority? Do you really believe that facing certain conversations within the constitutional framework...? I know that you are not going to come out of the word dialogue within the constitutional framework. You do not come out of there, when it is pure falsehood - then we will talk about what is true and fraudulent in the speech of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party - but do you want to tell me if you really are next to the constituent pact, which was worked with all political forces, mainly from centrality, from the axis of political gravity, which is the union of the centre, the right and the left? You broke it with the new majority. You no longer have a constituent pact, you have a pact with the nationalist devil; it is the phaustic pact with which you want to break forty years of a solid and brilliant constitutional system. [[Applauds]] Yes, tell President García-Page, who is very satisfied; tell him, minister. But I will tell you something else: you need it, and you need it to survive; you need it to be able to govern; you need it because it is your only chance to remain ministers and deputies in the Congress of Deputies. You guys are wrong, and I'm gonna tell you why. Because every time the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, during these forty years - also the Felipe González terminal, but especially in the last fifteen years - has tried to adopt the strategy of appeasement and surrender, it has ended up losing. Tell Montilla. Have you called Montilla to get some memory back, the Spanish workers' memorialist party? Can we get the memory back right now or don't you remember what happened the last few times you've done it? You play the chain, you play the leash: you stretch, you shorten, you stretch, you shorten..., in a game that we'll see is of duplicate personality, and the duplicate personality is a problem in politics, as we'll see below. But I'm going to talk about your election program, because we're going to talk about everything, Minister. Will they explain to us their electoral program, the electoral program of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which covered the applications of the Declaration of Granada of 2013 and the Declaration of Barcelona in 2017? Do you remember, Mr.Iceta, what the Barcelona Declaration of 2017 said? Once again the Socialist Party of Catalonia phagocytes the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. There were four pretensions that were pursued in the Barcelona Declaration of 2017. The first, the recognition of Catalonia's national aspirations, I repeat, the recognition of Catalonia's national aspirations. Minister, if you don't ask Mr.Iceta, the Vietnamese: How many nations are there in Spain? Let's see if we know now, that we have a new territorial policy minister, how many nations there are. How many nations? When you sit at the table today, at that table of infamy, how many nations are there in Spain? Please tell me. Please answer me; then, when I come up here, answer me. How many nations are you going to represent there at this table? Secondly, the Barcelona Declaration said that self-government in Catalonia had to be improved. Thirdly, that funding had to be improved, but that was breaking with multilateralism. Of course, Mr. García-Page can't be at this table, don't worry. There will no longer be multilateralism. When he returns to Castilla-La Mancha, he explains to Mr García-Page that he will not be able to sit on a Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; he also explains it to Fernández Vara and to my Javier Lambán, who is gradually falling into his own disdain, in his own passivity and in his own paralysis. Explain to us what you're going to say and what you're going to hear at that table. And finally, a federal senate. Here is the expression of the Senate, I don't know if we have any kind of evolution regarding the content of what was said in the Barcelona Declaration of 2017. But I'm gonna keep going. Is there a crisis in the constituent pact? Are you going to take him to the table, insist, walk with the wedge of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? Is there a constituent crisis? It was said by the former Minister of Justice, who sat where Mrs. Llop now sits, by the way, fulminated by the exterminating angel. Know one thing: when they are named, they have much less left to be stopped, and not because it is a matter of time, simply because arbitrariness and psychotic subjectivism will be imposed when they have to cease, when they get tired of you and calcine. Don't worry, there's less left, and these tables burn a lot, these tables burn a lot. Secondly - and look, you have Mr Iceta on your side -: Spain is not prepared for the referendum on self-determination and we have to wait ten or fifteen years for a sufficient majority to be able to put forward a referendum on self-determination in Catalonia. Do we still have that statement, Minister? I don't know if in culture and sport we can have any expression of this kind of political motivation of postponement in the time of self-determination referendums, but can you tell me if we're actually making a timing game of a self-determination referendum and now what you're playing is sitting at a table? But I'm going to tell you more - and I've told you before - you make Spanish first and second. When you sit at a table with those who hate Spain and say it expressly and also you sit with the aim of giving them prebendas, competences and attributions, you are appealing to the worst of the feeling and bond that binds Spain since 1978: you are appealing to the aggravation! Can you sit with other autonomous communities and explain this? Do we really have to do the same thing for them to come and sit down and improve on self-government? Do not come here to say that there is a political conflict, I repeat, do not come here to say that there is a political conflict, and do not tell me that there are two identical national bodies called Spain and Catalonia. If you say that, if you really say that, you are not in this world. And the worst thing is not ignorance, the worst thing is that ignorance rules, and there we would have a serious problem. But I'm going to go on. Look, you have been exploring what has been called the third way; the third way between what you have called independence and, on the other hand, immobilism, paralysis. Now it turns out that the Spanish Constitution is paralysis. Really, look, I'm already telling you as a lawyer: Don't go to a law school to explain these things. I do not know if in a faculty of political sciences someone will understand them, but when the fulfillment of constitutional legality, of the orthodoxy of the distribution of competences between the State and the autonomous communities want to put it, obviously, right now, you cannot say that, because you are fed by the creation of a residual State, a residual State in Catalonia. Do you really believe that the solution in Catalonia is now a residual state in Catalonia? Do you really think you're going to go with the points you've been collecting from all the ministries to see where we can give in and what is a solution for Catalonia? Don't you realize that's not the solution for them? Don't you realize they don't care? Don't you realize that they, they, the Republican Left and the children of Pujol, are going to get the same? That's not necessary. Do you know what the solution Jordi Pujol was looking for in the last book - page 66-, the interview book? It says: The solution with Spain is the contract. And Jordi Pujol said so calmly: the cloth. It says: It is the saving formula. The formula for a solution in relations between the State and the autonomous communities. The Socialist Party has been working on a repository, a catalogue of plans that we're going to... I don't think they've got any shelves to put in any more. And it's over. Look, Catalan society is broken, I repeat, Catalan society is broken. They do not intend to resolve the fragmentation of Catalan society by trying to break Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u134	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with absolute respect to this House of which I am a member of the Socialist Group which supports the Government today, and I do so as Minister for Territorial Policy. I thought, while you were speaking, Mr Garcés, that I am always excited to enter the Chamber, and I am excited because this is the place where the representation of the Spanish people, of all the Spanish people, of all the Spanish women, and this is the place where people who participated in the most tragic moments of our country's recent history on different sides, when they killed each other - it is not that they hated each other, it is that they killed each other - were able to sit in these seats and talk to take forward the future Spain. That's why I'm excited about this House, Mr. Garcés. [[Applauds]] In this House, Mr Garcés, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the best and greatest agreements have been achieved. Thanks to the word, thanks to the dialogue, we were tied to a generation, which is mine, the best moments in our history. That's why I feel absolute respect and that's why you're not going to find me in your crespation frame. This must be the Chamber of Pedagogy, Reflection, Debate and Agreement. We can disagree, of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is also the Chamber of Discrepancy and Criticism, but it must be done with a little rigour and a little truth. Look, you have no authority to change the name of things; you are not who to change the name of a table that promotes and drives this government and to which we call a table of dialogue, unless you do not share that of dialogue. This is a table for dialogue, not for self-determination, as you say. I have had the opportunity in these years, in which I have not been sitting in these seats, to be very close to citizenship at very complicated times for our country, suffering this pandemic and responding to it, and I can assure you that the feeling that citizenship has out there does not at all resemble what you are manifesting in here and that the democratic maturity of Spanish citizenship is much more critical and more responsible than that which at the moment has the parliamentary group to which you represent. Your Honor, I am surprised that a Member who has to work with the word refuse dialogue. I'm surprised, honestly. Look, Spain today, at this table, is represented by the Government of Spain, the Government of Spain, which obtained the majority support of the Spanish people. This is easy, it's easy. His Government was thus represented today. Look, I have listened to you recently - the team has sent me a recent speech from you that I had heard and did not remember - and he said to me: Well, this is not the tone you will use in Parliament; this is the tone of a TV set. But I was surprised, because you used the same tone you used on a TV set. I'm not going to that frame. I told him that I have been very close to the problems that Spanish society has suffered in recent months. And you know what this government wants for Catalonia? The same as for Spain. We want the same as for Spain. And what the government wants for Spain is what most Spaniards and Spaniards want, which is to overcome once and for all the pandemic, which is to recover our economy as we are doing and which is to bet on a model of modernization, of economic transformation that gives opportunities to succeeding generations, as others did to us. That is the plan of this government for Spain, and it is the same, identical, that we have for Catalonia. You don't stop surprising me either. You belong to a party that has been a party of government and that today is a party that is not up to the circumstances, that is putting its interests, I do not know if oparticular partisans, above the general interest. Look, we have to go through the dialogue. Only from the dialogue will we return to encounter and concord. I ask you not to do this as part of Catalan independence. I ask you to overcome it on October 1, 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office said here, in this very rostrum, in his investiture speech, that the Government will work to overcome the conflict in Catalonia; he said that dialogue would be an absolute priority to achieve formulas of understanding and also of meeting, and this is what we are doing. As I say, this is exactly what we are doing: fulfilling our commitment and opening up to politics. Look, I haven't heard what you're proposing yet. I do not know if you have said so in your speech, but I do not know what your proposal is. Keeping our arms crossed? Wait another ten years? This is a problem that has been faced for ten years in Spanish society and Catalan society. Precisely, Your Honor - I don't know if you remember - the worst moments of Catalan conflict lived when you occupied the blue bench, that's when the worst moments of Catalan conflict lived! [[Applauds]] And yes, yes, our road map is none other than to continue with the constitutional pact. We have said this to you as an active and passive person and I repeat it here with absolute clarity: There is no referendum for independence, because it does not fit in the constitutional framework, because it is not what Catalonia needs and because it is not what Spain needs. Look, no Spanish citizen, no Spanish citizen can skip the law, and neither can the public authorities. The law binds us all and all, also you, ladies and gentlemen, also to you! That is why I say to you: We have to comply with rights and obligations; we cannot choose to comply with the law if we like or do not like or comply with or demand the Constitution when it suits us or does not suit us. The law is always enforced and this Government will take care of it. Look, we've deployed a road map based on dialogue within the framework of the Constitution. What is happening in Catalonia has not only degenerated into a political confrontation, but, unfortunately, the political confrontation ended in the homes of Catalans and Catalans, deteriorating social coexistence. I sincerely believe that the commitment to dialogue and the progress being made by the President of the Government is bearing fruit and that Catalonia is now experiencing a better situation than a year ago, and I hope it will be much better than next year. Catalonia no longer lives a situation of institutional disobedience such as the one that occurred in 2017. Do you remember her? That's not happening today in Catalonia. So independence put the Catalan institutions at the service of the bankruptcy of the legal system; today there is no risk of bankruptcy of the legal system and, fortunately, the social tension is noticeably lower. A data from the Prosecutor's Office: hate crimes for ideological reasons have dropped in Barcelona by 62% in the last year. Does this mean the job is done? No, not much less. That will be easy and quick your solution? Neither. But we understand that the way is to recover the affectivity between Catalans and also between Catalans and Catalans and the rest of Spain. The last ten years have been bad, there was only confrontation. They were lost years for coexistence. Did you serve the confrontation? Did the confrontation work for anything? Did the confrontation solve any problems? No, on the contrary, it made them worse. What about immobilism? What did immobilism do? Did immobilism bring any solution, turning our backs on each other? No, no, We must recognize that we have to work to solve this problem in Catalonia, and I would love to hear now what your model is, what your proposal is. How would you do that? Would it be different from how Rajoy did it? Would you do it differently? Count it. Tell it to the Spaniards, tell it to the Catalans. What do we think with this schedule, this table? In short, with the tools that the constitutional state allows us, to respond to the problems that they have today in Catalonia, to advance in self-government and to bet that Catalonia participates in the process of modernization and economic transformation that we are going to carry out in our country. Look, this is the basis - dialogue, agreement, institutional regeneration to overcome political difficulties - but above all the Government is thinking, as it said at first, of responding to the concerns, to the wishes of Catalans and Catalans, a generation of young people who have lived in this conflict and who now have other expectations for their lives, expectations that we are going to frame in the development of new laws - such as that of vocational training that the Government has just approved -, increasing their salaries and offering them a decent labour market. Those are the concerns of the Government and that is what we offer to all Catalans and Catalans, but in the midst of the conflict it is impossible to work on the policy that matters to citizens, and that is why the conflict must be reduced. And we are also sincere to all Spaniards and Catalans and Catalans: this will not be a matter of a day. And it would be much easier if you, as we did at the time, were on the side of the government, on the side of the general interest of the state and not again in confrontation and immobilism. To overcome this difficulty, the Government has given clear signs of its purpose, which is to renew the situation, to overcome the stage of conflict and to restore normalcy through dialogue; that dialogue is practised not only between the State and the Generalitat, but also between Catalans; to move forward in coexistence to leave the confrontation behind and open this new stage towards a just economic recovery, working for well-being without excluding anyone for their condition or for their ideology. We want to build a country where citizens live in peace, live in peace; that was not happening in Catalonia. Spain has started a phase of economic recovery, of reactivation, in which Catalonia cannot stay out, because Catalonia is one of the main engines of this country, and if Catalonia is doing well, Spain will do well, and when Spain is doing well, Catalonia will do well. We want to count on all the potentialities of Spain. Catalonia is part of Spain and we will count on it for the social and economic development of this country. That is the Government's proposal. What's yours? What's yours? Cut Catalonia off the map? Is that yours? What is the People's Party offering to this problem? Ladies and gentlemen, your criticisms are known to us; your proposals are not. Either they have them or they know that immobilism and confrontation were ineffective. I truly encourage you, sincerely - because I believe that a party responsible for the opposition is always good for the interest of Spain - to exercise that responsible opposition, to be loyal to this country, because defending the interest of Spain you will not be helping the Government, you will simply be supporting all Spaniards who want a better future for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, so predictable that the word dialogue and, by the way, the word emotion has only come out of your mouth. First of all, you didn't come here with emotions, you came here with a motion. The emotion and motion of censure, which, of course, changed the history of this country by ruining it at the worst time in its history. [[Applauds]] No emotion; here came with a motion. Secondly, how good it is to recover the dialectic winners and losers! How does the Socialist Party look into the history of Spain to create that kind of unlikely history of Spain! We do not know what happened in the history of Spain; there were winners and losers. Precisely, when I spoke to you before the ousting pact that you approach today at the table, I spoke to you about that bond that we were able to forge in the years 1977 and 1978. And who forged it, Minister? That new majority or the right and left of this country? Because there can be no different course than not cultivated, not forged, not configured by the right and left of this country! It seems a lie that they don't realize it. The new majority you have hatched is a destructive majority, a majority that wants to energize the foundations of the constitutional pact. But is that simple to consider? Don't you realize what's going on in other European countries? You tell me, and you say it as a minister and spokesman for this government: It is that we have the authority to set up a dialogue table. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, I'm sorry, none. You have the authority to comply with the status of autonomy and the Constitution, which do not speak of any dialogue table. Any political dialogue table is outside the institutions, between political parties. Tell me where the dialogue table is in Catalonia's Autonomy Statute, tell me. Mr. Iceta, tell me. Tell me, Mrs. Rodriguez. Where is he? He's not here. Therefore, you are not legitimized. I have already told you that the only truth on the table was that it was actually a table. Hey, you guys are applying the law of blackmail. As there is a pressure - already turned into kale borroka, on the other hand - and intimidation on the part of one of the factions of society, directly pushed by some political organizations, we need to dialogue. Dialog, with whom? With the violent? Dialog with whom? You say to me: What do you want us to wait ten years? Who says we wait ten years is Mr Montilla, who said: We will wait ten years for the right of self-determination to make the referendum, to see what comes out, to see if there is a sufficient majority. I'm not the one who said to wait ten years. The one who said it is the one who is sitting next to him. And, hey, there's one thing we're not going to accept, because, besides, as much as I repeat it, it's a lie. It is an absolutely ontological and legal issue, Madam Spokesman. When someone is killed, the person responsible for the death is the murderer; when someone is raped, the person responsible is the rapist; when someone becomes independentist, the person responsible is the independentist, not any political party, of course! Do not start to say systematically that the blame for the growth of independence in Catalonia is the work and grace of the People's Party. That's completely false. And you're the one who has to account, not me, you're the one who has to account. That's why I'm telling you that you have a kind of double personality between the truth and the fraud. What are you doing today? Are you going to sit down and play? Are you going to sit down and lie? Are you going to lie to President Aragonès? Are you guys gonna play for time? Are they aware of the deception? If they are aware of the deception and will deceive them, will they withdraw their political support? Listen, let's call an election and see what the Spaniards think right now about what's going on. Don't you dare? You don't dare Republican Left? What if Squerra Republicana just gets a sentimental rinse and four words don't withdraw her support? Remove him, be brave, do not play victimism. Have courage, have civic courage, the same one that demonstrated part of society when he rebuked them on the Day of the Day, because they are no longer there. Be brave; act with that courage that they demand of us. Look, I'm asking you, because at three o'clock you're going to be in Barcelona; I'm not going to be in Barcelona, you're going to be. First question: Tell us the agenda of the topics to be discussed. Very simple, say it. I'm one more Spaniard. Can't I know? Can't I know? Tell me if you're going to stand up for everything that's going to be said at that meeting; but tell me, eh?, don't tell me about dialogue, because, really, you're swelling your mouth talking about dialogue. Is he going to get a record of the whole thing? I'll tell you one thing, tell me, are you willing to record the whole conversation? Are you willing to record the entire conversation? What, the rest of the Spaniards don't have the right to listen to them? Is that dialogue or is it just dialogue with those who don't want us? Thank you for demonstrating that concept of disloyalty you have with Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u138	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, emotion always. I do not understand the political vocation of public service if it is not with passion and emotion. I am always excited to represent the Spaniards and much more to have the responsibility to work from the Government of our nation, from the Government of Spain. Always excited. [[Applauds]] And on this of the motion - that of the motion of censure I say - and speaking of the Constitution: article 113 of the Spanish Constitution. It is that the Spanish Constitution does not go as an inventory, ladies and gentlemen; it is always fulfilled, to renew the constitutional organs and to control the government and the formation of majorities. But one thing has been forgotten to you, Your Honor: two elections - not one, two -, two elections, and I think this is the way it is: 119-88. And in that feeling of the Catalans, forgive me, but I have not accused you of doing independence, it has not come out of my mouth, you review the Journal of Sessions, the unconscious has had to take you to the wrong port. You know why? Because you certainly do not represent or represent a very small part of the Catalans: three seats, almost without representation in the last Catalan elections. [[Applauds]] And look, for concrete purposes, I'll tell you some important differences between you and us, between then and now. What is the difference between 2017 and 2018 that we are living in today? A very positive one - it was said before -: fortunately, the climate of social tension in Catalonia is much less today than then. It is unquestionable evidence; it is much less than then. And the other one see if it's important, see, because then I was sitting there, and sitting there there was a very critical moment: that being you ruling - with how good you would be joining Spain! - Do you know what happened? There was an illegal referendum, there were disconnection laws and there were some gentlemen who wanted to break up with Spain. And do you know where that party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, was? Supporting the Government of Spain! Supporting the Government of Spain! [[Applauds]] That's what makes us different from each other. How I would like, as minister of this government And as a person who was then there and supported you, to have you now, but you have lost the path, you have lost what has always been one of the characteristics of the People's Party in our country: to be a party with options of government. When a party that aspires to govern this country is not on State issues, it has much left to be in the Government. I reminded them of the last elections, and I also remind them, in case they forgot, that it is still two years before the next elections. Look, this is basically what has changed at this time: that we then support the government, and you do not support this government because you seek more partisan interest than the general interest of Spain and the Spanish. I insist, I would like you to return to the path of a loyal, responsible opposition, which, when it has to be on the side of the government, because it defends Spain and the Spanish, it is. We'll sit at this table. I haven't had time to type it, but I think the rendezvous agenda document is posted on the website, if not kindly I send it to you so you know it; we have reported it by active and passive, and it is a public document. That is the agenda of the Government, that is the debate of the Government. Dialogue always, Your Honor, always; in the face of confrontation and immobility, which have been the only two recipes that you have practiced and I have not heard any other in this forum, dialogue; dialogue to find ourselves thinking about the projection of our country for the future at a time of economic recovery, of overcoming the pandemic and of many expectations of the citizens, which are not in the mood of this Parliament, but thinking about how the life of your children will be tomorrow, how the economy of this country will be tomorrow, how the affections and encounters among all of us will be tomorrow. We will work for it, and I hope that at some point you will resume your position. Thank you very much. Good morning and that this is still the house of the word. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Railway Policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in the main tourist area. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 172/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u141	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in the Principality of Asturias. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u142	Thank you very much. First of all, allow me, Madam President, to greet and welcome the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in her first participation in the General Courts, and wish her well in her management at the head of a department that is key to the life of the Spaniards and to our future. Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, if the accounts do not fail me, you are the sixth minister, the sixth, whom I have personally questioned or asked in parliamentary office, come to the Senate, right here in Congress, for the railway policy that is developed specifically in Asturias. I have always justified such an insistence on the peremptory need for modernization and improvement of railway infrastructure in a peripheral territory whose inhabitants need, as most of them, attention in a matter on which the Government has all the powers there. You, who have barely been in office for two months, can not yet be asked to take stock of your work, because obviously you have hardly had time to start it; although you will allow me to point out that you have entered with all the trumpet put into your innovative formula of charging the road network, that it is nothing more than a colossal wasteful citizens for the use of the 26,000 kilometers of national highways, highways and roads, which, in the case of the Asturians, who are the ones who, in addition to fuels and tolls, we pay the most for moving to Madrid, has a railway derivative because, minister, in relation to the train, we have improper communications of the 21st century, which, instead of improving, go to worse and discriminate against us. To the Asturians the Government provides us with unequal treatment that relegates us and that hinders and penalizes competitiveness and, consequently, something as high-priority as job creation. [[The Lord]] I will refer in this inquiry to the high speed, the network of proximity, the port connections for the rail traffic of goods and the urban integrations of the railway. I will stick to Asturias, although with a slight incursion into our neighbor and for me especially affectionate Leon, in which we continue to endure the anachronistic season in the background of sack, inaugurated in 2011 by Mr Zapatero, and the forced maneuver of advance-retrocession that extends in twenty-five minutes extra the journey by train with Madrid. Over time there have been multiple estimates for the commissioning of this new station and, after successive delays and incidents in the works, it is now awaiting the report of the State Railway Safety Agency. Are you in a position to facilitate a date to finally inaugurate the new station of León, key for the railway communications between Asturias and the capital of Spain? Minister, in 2018 your predecessor, Mr Ábalos, used the relief of La Moncloa as a pretext to justify the halting of projects and an audit of deadlines on them that entailed the return to the exit box. He praised the flagrant non-compliance with the State General Budgets Act for that exercise and the package of railway plans that the previous Executive, chaired by Mr Rajoy, had launched in Asturias. However, there is a common element that unites the efforts of the last Ministry of Development of the People's Party, Mr Ábalos and his: the Secretary of State today, Mrs Isabel Pardo de Vera, with whom I had the opportunity to visit some years ago the completed works of the tunnels of the variant of Pajares, a historical project systematically rejected in the General Courts by the Socialist Party, which could be carried out by the impulse of the Government presided by José María Aznar, being minister of Fomento Álvarez-Cascos, and of which, if I remember correctly, was also part of Mrs Pastor - who was present here until a moment ago - who was then responsible for the health portfolio. As a detailed collection of newspaper sessions, the socialists never believed in this project. Curiously, the biggest obstacle to starting the variant of Pajares was not geographical, physical or economic, but it was political, because the socialists repeatedly voted here against the initiatives to compromise and, when they ruled, were the creators of the slowing down of their works, when not of their paralysis. This was not an obstacle for Mr. Zapatero to predict the arrival of the AVE in Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, by 2010. It has only not arrived in Oviedo, but now you want to leave it in Pola de Lena, just over twenty kilometers from the capital of the principality. Ladies and gentlemen, without this implying the resignation of the Asturians to have the same high speed as the rest of the AVE corridors that are working, the knowledge of the putting into service of the variant of Pajares, as well as of the time of travel between Oviedo and the capital of Spain, and the intentions of his Government to complete the informative studies of the sections Pola de Lena, Oviedo, Gijón, Avilés, is also the subject of this inquiry. Madam Transport Commissioner, all this is of crucial importance for the present and future of the Spanish region, which chronically occupies the red lighthouse in the labour force rate, and which ages in a galloping way because its young people migrate, since youth unemployment is the highest in the whole of the European Union, as a result of the great difficulties for economic growth, to which must be added the deficiencies to favour tourism, with an airport low in links and frequencies, but maximum in the price of air tickets, without forgetting, as I pointed out before, the tolls on the radial axis with Madrid or the suspension of the so-called motorway of the sea between El Musel and the French Brittany, maritime communication suspended seven years ago and which relegates us to be the only autonomous community of the cantabrian cornice - the only one of the four - that does not have such communications. Speaking of our two major ports, El Musel and Avilés, he called for its railway connectivity, both for its competitiveness and for the exploitation of the enormous investment effort already made for its large expansions, granted to play a crucial role in the transport of goods and, consequently, to generate employment. The railway connectivity of our two large harbour spaces requires that the Government of Spain accord the same priority character to the so-called Atlantic Corridor, with characteristics that allow the cities and ports of the cantabrian Atlantic facade to join the basic network of the Trans-European Transport Network, key for both the transport of passengers and the transport of goods. [[TEN-T]] Minister, as head of a department where, in addition to transport, mobility and urban agenda policies are defined and implemented, you have inherited the misadjustment that resulted in your Government's failure to comply with the agreements signed to implement the railway integration plans in the towns of Avilés, Langreo and Gijón. With regard to Avilés, the third largest population in the region, I place his ministry to stop parapetting after the coronavirus and make significant progress in the information study commissioned to define those subterranean alternatives that include the environmental impact study, as a step before its submission to public information, so that the Avilesinos can see overcome the first of the major obstacles to the integration of the railway. In this regard, I remind you that in September 2017, measures were agreed between the central government - then the People's Party - the principality and the city - both of the PSOE - which the government of Sánchez subsequently rejected. Such a liturgy of discarding and crushing the above is a characteristic of socialism when it arrives in La Moncloa. We suffered it with the variant of Pajares, we saw it in the integration of the railway in Avilés and we have seen it again, also in the underground of Langreo, which had an agreement in force since February 2007, but that last June of this year was resolved in favor of another agreement, without anyone responding to the disastrous periplo of works that for twelve and a half years damaged the daily life of the Langreans. Nor does anyone account for the multi-million dollar costs and overruns during this period. Finally, another genuinely socialist railway feat is that which affects Gijón, the largest population in Asturias, for which the intermodal station that completes the urban integration operation, which began with a historic five-party agreement, signed in the home of Jovellanos, in September 2001, and whose development had two very important milestones, is urgent and essential. The first was the construction of a tunnel almost four kilometers long, completed 14 years ago, with space for several underground stations as a Metro to capture users and crossing the city. The second of the milestones was the signing of an agreement between administrations, the result of a very high degree of political consensus and similar support from the Gijonese, which the Official State Gazette of May 24, 2019 published, including the signature of Mrs. Pardo de Vera, then as president of ADIF, and today - as I said earlier - secretary of state of the ministry. Well, Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, Gijón has again suffered a political hit by the Socialist Party again with the break of this fundamental agreement for the future of the city, which discards the environment of the Railway Museum as an intermodal station and which, in rebuttal, condemns the Gijonese to continue using the entrepreneurial Chamizo of Sanz Crespo, inaugurated in 2011 as a temporary station, which has frightened the users of the railway. Finally, closeness, another colossal fiasco that deepens the gradual and tearing process of dismantling a network that is essential for the communication of the region, especially in its central area, where 80% of the Asturian population is concentrated, which hardly receives annual investments of 30% of what is budgeted for each year and which above are decreasing: in 2020 less than 26 million euros. Asturias awaits this plan of modernization for the vicinity that should be preceded by a lightning action to stop its progressive deterioration that, logically, is accompanied by the apprehension of users tired of its malfunction and of decrepit units and pieces that arrive in Asturias second hand. For the history of railway swans, the plan agreed in 2017 by the Socialist Government of the Principality, which had a very broad social support reflected in the social actors, remains the case. Mr Ábalos, who had just come to the government, took charge of fulminating it, turning it into a plan of nearness to nothing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u143	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u144	Very good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that it is an honour for me, and that I share that feeling of emotion to which the Minister and Spokesman of the Government, Isabel Rodríguez, referred earlier when she came up to this rostrum, being at her full disposal, both I and the rest of my team, to help you in whatever it takes. Above all, I will try to do a job that is useful to the citizens, the Spanish and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblea, you have referred in your question to a number of issues. [[ccccccccc]] First of all, I would like to thank you for that period of grace that I thought I understood in your first speech, but for your peace of mind I would like to say that there is no parenthesis in the actions that are taking place in Asturias and that, of course, the change of minister will not delay anything the commitment of this ministry and the government for Asturias, and for the railway in particular, since it is clear and, at least, marked me as an objective to give continuity to the actions that are already under way. I would like to tell you that, with regard to Asturias and the figures from the general state budgets that we have approved for this year 2020, we have allocated to this autonomous community some EUR 460 million. That's-that's not small - a 42.3% increase in relation to the 2018 budgets that you supported, Mr Martínez Oblea Of them, about 365 million are earmarked for investments, 64.7% more than the 2018 budgets. [[ccccccccc]] As far as railways are concerned, EUR 257 million is allocated to Asturias, a 12.7% increase which, in terms of investments, is 166 million, an additional 27.7%. In short, no parenthesis, no pause; we have a clear bet on Asturias and the railway in particular on the part of this ministry, and I ratify it to you, Mr Martínez Oblea [[ccccccccc]] You tell me about the high speed, about the incorporation of Asturias into the high speed network up to Oviedo, up to Gijón and Avilés, and I reiterate to you what my predecessor announced to you just over a year ago in an inquiry also in this very Chamber; Asturias will have the high speed services, with the same services, with the same services; with the services in time and in everything that refers to the high speed service comparable to the big Spanish cities and, also, comparable - as it cannot be otherwise - to the big European cities. In particular, I should like to inform you of the different high-speed sections in which you are working. Between Valladolid and León We continue to develop the work to improve its capacity, so that we have in writing the project of platform and track of integration of the railway in the city of Palencia. In addition, the project of en route duplication in the stages with platform prepared for this, between Villada and León, as well as electrification, is being drafted. In León we will soon put in service the train station of León, which will allow in short time that the services destined to Asturias can take up to fifteen minutes less. We also work to put the section of León-La Robla in service shortly in double track of mixed width; and in the section of La Robla-Pola de Lena, that is, the variant of Pajares, for mixed traffic with the western track in Iberian width with multivalent traverse and the track is in mixed width with three threads. More than €3716 million has been invested in this section since the start of the works. He announced that, in a first phase, the infrastructure in Iberian width will be put into service, pending the completion of the work of conditioning the section of León-La Robla. This will also reduce travel times to Asturias and evaluate the infrastructure as soon as possible. With regard to the references you have made about access to the extension of the high-speed network from Pola de Lena to the cities of Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés, I would like to remind you that there were some informative studies that were submitted to public information in 2015 with negative results, as you will recall. There was opposition from several affected municipalities and some industry, including the Minersa group, as well as technical difficulties with a very high cost per kilometre, which also entailed a very small reduction in travel times. In 2017, the previous government, which you supported, decided to give up; I insist, the previous government which you supported. In any case, we will continue to advance in the informative study of the variant of Villabona that we have in writing, which will allow to increase the capacity, improve the reliability and also reduce the travel times of the order of five minutes between Oviedo and Gijón. You also referred to the connections of the standard width between the large ports of El Musel and Avilés. Generally speaking, I must tell you that we continue to work - as you will know - on the implementation of the standard width throughout the network, but we must not encourage isolation, but live together; we must continue the two widths. As you know, the ports of El Musel and Avilés have a net of Iberian width and metric width. Where a standard width commissioning schedule is available throughout the freight corridor connecting to the ports of Gijón and Avilés, including access to these ports, the port authorities would, at that time, be required to schedule the standard width allocation on their networks. I insist that this decision was taken and that it was the decision proposed by the technicians, avoiding leaving the Asturian ports isolated without impact in travel times, which also allows European funding and does not condition the future. The change, I insist, will take place when the general configuration of the state of the network in Spain advises it to benefit the industry, the Asturian shippers, because it is naughty multivalent. I must also say that, in any case, the variant of Pajares will allow the connection of the goods in Iberian width with a much greater capacity, both in the number of trains running as well as by the maximum load of each train, by removing the important ramps of Pajares. You were also concerned about the Neighbourhood Plan and I tell you that we will continue to work in the context of the plan that was adopted at the time by consensus between the Government of the principality and the Government of Spain. However, since it is a Middle and Long-Term Closeness Plan, what we are first and foremost undertaking is those actions that we include in the 2019 shock plan. As far as infrastructure is concerned, ADIF has promoted an important portfolio of actions in the vicinity of Asturias, such as road renovations or also the modernisation of facilities. Among them there is a set of EUR 262 million that will materialise in the coming months. In the case of Renfe, the modernisation of the fleet and the purchase of equipment, the improvement of maintenance facilities and various actions at stations are under way. In addition, there are actions which in principle do not entail an additional cost, but which already allow or will allow better service to citizens; for example, the study of the reorganization of the neighbourhood services to optimize the operation, the accompanying of trains by maintenance staff or the reinforcement of afternoon shifts in the workshops. Thanks to this we have achieved the following: change the growing trend and achieve the reduction of the number of services that are suppressed in the network of metric width, also gradually improve the reliability of the diesel and electric trains of metric width, and therefore also achieve a growing trend in the improvement of punctuality. Finally, I must also tell you that there are various actions in this area aimed at incorporating alternative energies into mobile equipment, which is also good news for decarbonisation and sustainability. You also referred to the underground and intermodal stations of Gijón, Avilés and Langreo. In the case of Gijón, on 4 June they know that the approval of the informational study was published in the BOE, and that the last board of directors of the society asked the ministry to continue with the environmental processing of the informational study, proposing the preferred solution of Moreda. In the case of Avilés, we will also continue to draft the formative study; in April 2021 we made the first contacts with the city council and the principality to explain to them what were the alternatives. And as for Langreo, I must also tell you that, with regard to this integration, in May 2021 we signed an agreement by ADIF and the Government of the Principality of Asturias and also the Municipality of Langreo for the burial. This already allowed the bidding of the works, since these projects were already drafted and approved. The works of the project for electrification of civil protection and complementary works, security and communications facilities have already been tendered, and the project is also in preparation for the tender. You also made reference in your speech - you have started here, although I leave it for the end - to the suppression of tolls, with that qualification that you said of the announcement of the study of the fee for payment for use as a saccaquartos, and I must say that, in relation to your community, in relation to the Principality of Asturias, the initial concession of AP-66 lasted until October 17 of this year, but that in 2002, when Mr Alvarez-Cascos was Vice-President of the Government - I remind you, one of the founders of your party - that concession was extended seventy-five years, the maximum legal allowed. [[Applauds]] The first one that began to talk about pay-for-use studies was the People's Party, to which the Forum supported and which carried out two studies, one in 2012 and the other in 2018. I insist, I insist, that those highways and tolls remain in force in Huerna, in the Principality of Asturias, was the previous government of the People's Party, which you supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will incorporate, Minister, the content of your first step through the forum of Congress into the already voluminous archive of evanescent and ethereal responses, because you have barely revealed any of the great incognites to undertake the railway modernization in Asturias, of which the Government has already disagreed since the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Moncloa - three years and four months ago - and that I am very afraid that with the new Executive we will continue on the dead track to solve the multiple and large outstanding issues that the Ministry of Transport has in the Principality. You ask me to be quiet but, given the precedents, the Asturians with you always put ourselves in the worst. You referred to the tolls and to the approval of the toll of the Huerna. Do you know, Minister of Transport, that this extension of the toll was to prevent the Asturians and the Lions from having to pay for the new motorway between Leon and Benavente, which the Socialist Government intended, of course, to pay. That avoided that new scumbag from the Socialist Party's path. Mrs Sánchez Jiménez, for the sake of equality between Spaniards, I have to demand the same treatment for Asturians as for others. In a few hours you will participate, together with the President of the Government, in a meeting in Barcelona that, under the pretext of a dialogue table, the Spaniards will be victims of a disastrous chapter of territorial dismantling that drags us to what the Government has given to call multilevel Spain, which is nothing but the consolidation of the citizens of first and second, and the breakdown of the National Unity. Speaking of railway policy and transport infrastructure policy, I would like to reiterate to Asturias that the allocation of the annual budgetary appropriations devoted to Chapter 6 in the Budgets Act next year is done with criteria of equity in its distribution among autonomous communities. [[The lady]] I see that Mrs Podemos's spokesperson is informing you about the tolls, but, listen to me, I have never trusted the propaganda to the contrary. Today you cannot avoid that the high speed arrives in Asturias through the variant of Birds with characteristics similar to those of all other AVE runners that are already in service. This means that the journey between Madrid and Oviedo takes two hours and thirty minutes, because it is the time for which a gigantic public investment has been carried out, and for this purpose more than 40 kilometers of tunnels have been rigged under the mountains of Pajares. Whatever it is to lower these conditions of travel will not be high speed and you will give us cat for hare, you are also separating us from the European requirements of high rail speed. By the way, the variant of Pajares - I suppose it is informed - is a work supported by a specific law, which gives priority to its date of execution. It is on its way to fulfilling twenty-four years, almost a quarter of a century, of that priority legislative mandate. Minister, unilaterally broken by your Government the agreement signed in 2005 for road links, the railway links to connect the major ports of El Musel and Avilés are very valuable. For the sake of equality between Spaniards, I have the same treatment as the communities where the Mediterranean corridor is going to operate, which are already being connected on a European or standard route and an agile calendar. By the way, from the Atlantic Corridor you have not said a single word, being as it is a historical aspiration of the northwest of Galicia, Asturias, Castile and León, without forgetting also that Cantabria wants to get its basic connection. With regard to urban integration plans and referring to Gijón, I will tell you that Gijón is the only city in the world, the only city, that has built a great tunnel for fourteen years and that socialists have put, put and will put all the obstacles in place for it to enter into service. Since the Ministry, the development of its competences in railway matters and its own agreements published in the BOE in May 2019 has not been fulfilled. This paralysis, a consequence of the socialist management, converts the Road Plan into the plan of the conflicts thanks to the PSOE. His reference to closeness has sounded to me the tale of the good pipe, it is not possible to expect from his words the slightest hope. I conclude, Mr President, by announcing the presentation of the corresponding motion resulting from an inquiry which will go in terms similar to those which I have been holding for years in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u148	Thank you very much, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca - I now pronounce your name well; excuse me - in relation to your speech and your reiteration of the aggravation that you consider to be suffered by the Principality of Asturias in comparison with the rest of the territories, I would like to say that this is not the case. I would not like to repeat and repeat the figures I referred to earlier when you recalled the budgetary appropriations that have been made this year and made special reference also to the railway infrastructure, to the investments that ADIF and Renfe are making, because of course I believe that this is the best indication that this priority and that this importance that we attach to the Principality of Asturias, the Asturians and the Asturians, is evidence and we commit it in our budgets. I insist, you've made reference to Huerna's toll again. I insist and remind you that the reality - and to the facts I refer - is that that toll was extended when I was ruling the People's Party - a party you supported - and that in addition vice president Álvarez-Cascos was the founder of one of your parties; that is, you will know better than anyone the reality and why the extension of that toll. What I say to you and what is a reality is that since this government has been in the government of Spain since 2018, it has been decided - that has been a reality and has been executed in that way - not to extend further the tolls in Spain, the concessions of the motorways and to recover those that were being completed, and that is how it is being done. You refer again to the need or proposal that intended to analyze the extension of the high-speed network from Pola de Lena to the cities of Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés. I insist, I remind you, that it was not this government that gave him a folder. There were informational studies which were submitted to public information, which had negative results, which obtained opposition from municipalities, from industry and which, moreover, were not justified, from the economic point of view and from the point of view of efficiency and savings that were intended in travel times, and that it was the previous government in 2017 - to which you also supported - that decided to give up on them. We have to be rigorous, we have to be honest with the management of public resources and we cannot continue to give hope, moreover, to a proposal which you, I insist, have made fall and which you have given up. Reference is made again to Renfe's actions, to the few ADIF actions. I'm going to transfer the data and actions we're dealing with in both Renfe and ADIF. As far as the purchase of equipment is concerned, between 2012 and 2018 no public service trains were tendered or purchased. It has been in 2019 when Renfe has launched a plan to renew the public service fleet which has involved, among others, the acquisition of thirty-one trains of metric width and six Alpines worth 258 million euros. As for the renovation and maintenance of the current material, interventions are also being made in the various series and this also affects the Principality of Asturias. As far as stations are concerned, various activities have been carried out for the recreation of platforms, the updating of control and access systems and the installation of megaphony services. I would also like to highlight the implementation of the Renfe card and you on all the metric width lines of Asturias earlier this year, and that we continue to work on the project for the tariff integration of the services of proximity in this community. As far as ADIF's actions are concerned, as far as ADIF is concerned, the shock plan to which I referred earlier represents a planned investment of EUR 51.4 million, of which EUR 48 million is currently being mobilised. Therefore, ADIF has promoted an important portfolio of actions in the vicinity of Asturias in which there is a set for an amount of EUR 262 million. I can detail them to you, Mr Martínez Oblea, since you have announced the introduction of a motion, but I will detail them to you. [[ccccccccc]] As for the ADIF station in Gijón, the actions we are considering for this integration of the railway in Gijón include two areas: the road plan and also the metrotrain. He knows that we are working on it and he knows that soon, because we deliver on the commitments, that will be a reality. Thank you so much and good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to prevent the laundering of hate crimes. [[File number 172/000130]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u150	We turn to the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government will take to prevent the trivialization of hate crimes. For your defense you have the word.. [[applause in the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Wait for me to pronounce Mrs. Olona's last names. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. Now I do. [[Applauds in the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u151	With venial, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, good morning. You're a judge, I'm a state attorney, so I hope you feel comfortable today during this intervention because we're going to talk about laws; let's talk about, specifically, the Party Law, the current Organic Law 6/2002 that replaces the original pre-constitutional law of 1978. At the origin of this rule was the will of the constitutionalist parties - at that time the Socialist Party was among them - to guarantee - I quote literally the statement of reasons - 'the functioning of the democratic system and the essential freedoms of the citizens, preventing a political party from repeatedly and gravely violating this democratic regime of freedoms, justifying racism and xenophobia or supporting politically the violence and activities of terrorist gangs'. But the Political Parties Act of 2002 actually responded to bloody evidence: our rule of law was not able to end the terrorist gang ETA, because ETA was present on the streets through its cowardly gunmen, but it was also present in public institutions, also in this Congress of Deputies, through certain political parties. A law was needed to put an end to the impunity with which terrorists and their political arm used public institutions to finance themselves and to extort. This bloody context was expressly recognized in the Supreme Court judgement of 28 March 2003, which for the first time applied it to proceed with the illegalization and subsequent judicial dissolution of Herri Batasuna, Batasuna and Euskal Herritarrok. We looked back then at terrorism, and Spanish democracy with this law signed the death sentence of the terrorist gang and saved thousands of lives. - They will always be in our memory each and every one of the victims of terrorism, and spatially we will be at your side right now, as we will be doing in Mondragon. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Minister, I'm telling you honestly, you're a smart woman, so you know where I'm headed with this background. [[The lady]] I'm talking to you, minister. That I'm not wrong? What I am doing is explaining to the Spaniards, to all of them, what is the way this totalitarian government has been cooking for months to expel VOX from political space, to silence our voice, because the road map of this totalitarian government is the illegalization of our political formation. It is you, Minister of Justice - I hope that, even if you are not looking at me, you are listening to me very carefully - the key that will activate it. The Spaniards do not know-but today I will explain to you - that within that mastodontic government it is you, Minister of Justice and senior notary of the kingdom, who gives orders to the only two institutions that can initiate before the Supreme Court the process of illegalization of a political party: the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. At this point, the Spaniards who are listening to me may wonder: how can the Government of Spain use a law designed and applied to illegalize the political arm of a terrorist gang to dissolve a political party, VOX, which is precisely Ortega Lara's party? [[Applauds]] My answer to the Spaniards in an objective and technical way, not a political one, is very clear: this government can only achieve this in one way, violating the law, both the Political Parties Act of 2002 and the Spanish Constitution of 1978, which in its article 1 proclaims freedom and political pluralism as essential values of our legal system; also justice, toga minister, that justice which you have denied as minister of illegal pardons to Catalan coupsmen, as minister of the unconstitutional first state of alarm, already declared by our High Court, and presumably of the second, and of course as minister of the assault and abduction of the judiciary that you are carrying out. You, Minister of Justice, from the Government of Spain are fabricating evidence against VOX to promote our illegalization under article 10.2 (c) of the Political Parties Act of 2002, if specific - literally - ordering the judicial dissolution of a political party when its activity repeatedly and gravely violates democratic principles through the conduct referred to in article 9. And by what supposed conduct of VOX - false! - does the Government of Spain intend to place us outside the democratic principles? Article 9.2 (a) of the Political Parties Act. Or did you think we wouldn't notice? Systematic violation of fundamental rights and freedoms by promoting, justifying or expelling the exclusion or persecution of persons on the basis of their ideology, religion or belief, nationality, race, sex or sexual orientation. That is to say, and in order for all the Spaniards, Minister of Justice, to understand us, so that you can activate the illegalization of our political formation, the Government needs to place us in the discourse of hatred, where we are not, but to this they are devoting themselves, to setting it up, to make it. First they have tried, Minister of Justice, through you, ordering the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to report our training or its leaders for alleged hate crimes. I am referring, for example, to the complaints promoted by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions on the occasion of the posters that we displayed during the last election campaign in Madrid informing of the objective cost of a MENA for the public era, that is, for all Spaniards! Or also that support from the Ministry of Public Prosecutions for the complaint brought against our colleague, Javier Ortega Smith, on the occasion of his objective presentation of the criminal context of which you know and call poetically the thirteen roses. All these allegations of hate crimes against VOX or its leaders have been filed, because it was evident with the law in hand, where there is no hate crime, nothing can be appreciated. As to date they have met with independent judges who have not yet been able to kidnap, what has been their next step? Try to link VOX to acts of violence. In some cases, montages; in all, acts with which our formation has absolutely nothing to do: from non-existent bullets to design aggressions. But let us remember some of the most notable examples: autonomous elections in the Community of Madrid. Minister, remember? Fascism or democracy. Very badly they should be seen in the polls at the time when they decided to criminalize our training by linking themselves to those alleged threats that had been received by various members of his Government, whether in the form of bullets inside letters or a knife, accusing VOX of being behind those threats without any evidence. We all remember the communist minister's over-action in a television programme made up of genuine political activists. How can we forget, taking advantage of the fact that it is here today, that great intervention which was then his socialist spokesman during a political rally? I literally quote: I just got a note. Our partner Reyes Maroto just received a bloody knife as a threat. From here, you're not gonna make it. Fascism won't happen. The Democrats are more and we're going to stop the 4-M. Where are the bullets, exporter? Where's that bloody knife? Because it turns out that the elections took place on 4 May and that serious threat to our democracy has not been known. Moreover, when it was known that the perpetrator of that threat, of which you directly accused our formation of being responsible, was a person with serious mental problems who had placed his identity in the referral, you kept the speech accusing our formation. And it turns out that it is the only party that has had to hold its rallies, its electoral acts, escorted by our glorious State Security Forces and Corpses, that on 7 April, as a result of the aggressions we suffered, two attendees of a political act opened their heads with stones; and it turns out that that same 7 April a national deputy of our formation ended up in the hospital. And you continued to say that VOX was the cause of the violence, while you were silent, when you already knew, when the Minister of the Interior already knew it, that the aggressors in that act of Vallecas were part of the personal escort of the then vice president Pablo Iglesias. They justified the violence against our formation and did so by the President of the Government himself on 14 April from this very rostrum, when he literally said that VOX had gone to Vallecas to provoke. We're going to stop not in all the disqualifications, like when Mrs. Ione Belarus said that in VOX we were Nazis, Nazis face-to-face, but yes in one of the most recent facts. Last July, we met with the murder of a young man in Galicia, Samuel, and as soon as you knew some details of that event, what you did was accuse VOX without any proof of being the culprits of what you described as homophobic aggression. All police investigations have dismantled your speech because after forty-one witness statements, no sign of hatred for sexual orientation was hiding behind that deplorable crime you used, even when your father asked you to stop using your son and his vile murder politically. [[Applauds]] We have also seen this in recent days, with the alleged homophobic aggression in Malasaña, which has turned out to be false. Today, Minister, the Minister of the Interior, who has hidden himself under his skirts, should be here, but yesterday, when he was told at seven o'clock in the afternoon, I saw a clear opportunity because today I would have the opportunity, on behalf of my parliamentary group, to mark the way for the Government, just as we anticipated when we called for the appointment of your state's general prosecutor's sectarian, a key to the illegalization of our formation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u152	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u153	In conclusion, Mr President. And now, answer, Minister of Justice: when are you going to activate the VOX illegalization button? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u154	I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u155	Thank you, President. In the interpellation, you ask me what steps the Government is going to take to prevent the trivialization of hate crimes and, Mrs Olona, I have to tell you that the first step I am going to implement is here, right now, asking you to abandon that resentful speech and that rabid speech that you have just made from here, from this rostrum. [[Applauds]] That is the first step that the Spanish Government is going to take, to do us a favour for democracy and this space, which deserves respect. ETA was defeated thanks to Spanish society, the institutional commitment, the commitment of the whole Spanish society, the commitment of the government that was there at the time; indeed, using this at the moment seems irresponsible to me. I also want to tell you, Mrs Olona, that you are already very much aware of all this that you are saying, that it is original, please be original. Another thing: I'm not a judge, and you're not a state attorney either, I'm sorry to tell you. [[Applauds]] You and I are political and we are dedicated to politics. Do not confuse, do not confuse or confuse people. [[Applauds]] You would love me to talk about you, that is what you would like, that this Minister of the Government of Spain will talk about you, but I will talk about who is really worth it, who we are here for, who this Government is here for, who are the victims, who are the people who are looking at us from outside, who are looking at what we are doing in here and are waiting for an answer, but a serious, effective answer to a serious problem, which is hate crimes. I am glad that you have asked me this question because it also gives me a great opportunity to give the government a voice here in this Congress of Deputies, which I absolutely respect. I confess that I am not surprised, it has not disappointed me at all your intervention. I have not been disappointed by the statements, the demonstrations that you have made here, because this is already coming for a long time. I'm telling you, it's nothing original. I'm sorry to tell you that I think you have a lot of confusion because either you don't know what crimes are, that it's really something troubling for our society, or we're facing a new exercise of political cynicism to generate confusion, chrispation, polarization, and what's worse, to generate fear, insecurity, uncertainty, uncertainty in the people out there, in the population. And that, in turn, will generate rejection and exclusion. One way to trivialize hate crimes - which is your question - is precisely to create that confusion about what they mean and ridicule. Hate crimes are not mere criticism, they are not mere disqualifications of certain kinds of people, they are manifestations of structural violence against specific groups of people. The Dictionary of the Spanish language of the Royal Academy defines by hatred antipathy and aversion to something or to someone whose evil is desired - see, whose evil is desired -. Let me remind you briefly how these crimes are defined by international bodies and how they are regulated also in our legal system. According to OSCE, hate crimes are crimes that are directed against a person or several persons because of their real or perceived connection, sympathy, affiliation, support or membership of a group, adding that the group may be based on aspects such as race, national or ethnic origin, language, skin colour, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, identity or other similar factor. The concern for these crimes has long been expressed in different international texts, not something new. Similarly, article 20.2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights - a rule of 1966 - states that any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility and violence shall be prohibited by law. For its part, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance defined hate crimes as all forms of expression that propagate, incite, promote or justify racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred based on intolerance; inter alia, intolerance expressed by aggressive nationalism, ethnocentrism, discrimination and hostility against minorities, immigrants, persons of immigrant origin. Within the European Union we also have legislation on this. The 2008 European Framework Decision on combating the various manifestations of racism and xenophobia through criminal law provides that public incitement to violence or hatred directed against a group of persons or against any member of such groups, defined in relation to race, colour, religion, belief, descent or national or ethnic origin, should be criminalized. Subsequently, the number of discriminatory grounds, the number of characteristics or characteristics that define the group to include other aspects, such as age, disability, language, sex, gender, identity, sexual orientation and other personal characteristics, conditions or singularities, has also been expanded and modernized in other international texts. With reference to these international texts, article 510 of the Spanish Criminal Code provides for the so-called hate crime, which punishes those who publicly encourage, promote or incite directly or indirectly to hatred, hostility, discrimination or violence against a group, part of it or a person determined by reason of their belonging to it, on racist, anti-Semitic or other grounds relating to ideology, religion or belief, family status, membership of its members of an ethnic group, race or nation, their national origin, sex, orientation or sexual identity, on grounds of gender, disease or disability. In addition to this hate crime, article 22.4 of the Criminal Code provides for a generic aggravating factor. In this regard, we can talk about two different hate crimes: those involving publicly inciting hatred or violence against certain groups and those committed on discriminatory grounds against a particular group of persons. Both are a serious threat, a threat to much of society, putting us all at risk. Here is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, of being faced with an increase in this type of crime that generates fear, fear, insecurity and uncertainty in society. Given the data, there are reasons for this. As has been reported these days from the Ministry of the Interior, according to the report on the Evolution of Hate Crimes in Spain in the year 2020 there has been a major upsurge of hate crimes and incidents in recent years, it has increased by 45% in just six years. We will go back to the time we are talking about - I repeat, an increase of 45% - although in this year 2020 there has been a decrease in the number of cases, it is considered that this year is not representative of the restrictions of activity and mobility caused by the confinement, so we have to take care of what is happening in this year 2021, and in the first six months the number of hate crimes has already increased by 9.3% compared to the first six months of the year-to-year data with 2019. The Office of the Attorney-General's Office has also echoed the increase in investigations into hate crimes, from, for example, 134 in 2017 to 275 in 2020. There is an important fact, the Attorney General's Office also says that there has been a decrease in hate crimes for ideological reasons related to the issue of the trial in Catalonia, which has reduced this type of crime by 64% and the Barcelona prosecutor relates it directly to the positive effect of pardons. Go see the memory of the Attorney General's Office. The overall increase in hate crimes in our country is therefore a reality. It must also be borne in mind that there is a hidden bag of complaints about this type of crime and other discrimination that does not arise, and here too we have to carry out many awareness-raising measures, because they are out of the statistics and we only see the tip of the iceberg. In June this year, the Ministry of the Interior published the report of a hate crime survey conducted at the end of last year, indicating that 41% of the respondents said they had been a victim of hate crimes in the last five years. Even so, according to data also from FRA, the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, 89 % acknowledged that they had not denounced such facts by claiming in many data that they believed that the authorities would not take them seriously, because they were afraid of reprisals or because they believed that the system could be unable to provide an effective response to these crimes. That is why the Government has to act, it has to act on these issues concerning violations in order to make visible, to visualize, for people to report, because there is a system prepared, institutions prepared to give them an answer. That is why I thank you again for this question, because it also allows me from here to give the Government a voice to raise awareness on this issue, to act with a preventive effect, even of primary prevention from here, so that these people know that there is a system that is waiting for them. It causes much harm to people and society to trivialize this type of crime. Many people now feel more afraid than a few years ago, and this is very serious. Demonstrations such as those you said in this rostrum, as well as other demonstrations that were said the other day in my appearance in the Committee on Justice, are dissuasive. People are afraid and do not want to go to the system. From here I tell you that you have a system at your disposal for your protection, for the prosecution of crime and for your attention. I have to tell him that invisibility to confuse, to mix it all up, is not the way. It is difficult to act against these crimes if their particularity is not recognized. These messages empower aggressors, who find moral support in certain manifestations that justifies their conduct. And it's not...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u156	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u157	And it is not harmless what is said here, but it can be very wicked. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u159	With venial, Mr. President. Minister, you will surely have been applauded within your advisory court and, when you leave this Chamber after your first intervention in this plenary today, you will be told that you have had an extraordinary intervention. Nevertheless, I need to tell you that you are being lied to with those applause and with those praises that you will certainly receive, because it is true that I have taken advantage - as I have told you - of the surprising change that the Government has made as an intervener, replacing Minister Marlaska for you, to have in front of the key of the illegalization of political parties and to ask you a simple question. And you, in the face of such serious facts, in the face of a statement from this rostrum of speakers that you accuse the Government directly of making evidence to activate the illegalization of a democratic party such as VOX, you have shown yourself to be stuttering, you have shown that you do not even know how to read well for the moment and, of course, you have kept silent before a concrete and simple question, which I repeat to you again. I want you to have the opportunity to speak to the Spanish, looking at them from the front, and you can tell them that Mrs Olona is lying and that it is absolutely uncertain that the government has in its plans to illegalise VOX. Tell him face-to-face! [[Applauds]] But remember that my goal is that I have fulfilled it. My aim is to achieve this because today a straight line is recorded in the Diario de Sesiones between different points that apparently had no connection, but which make it clear that this spirit of the Government of Spain - which has promoted political violence against VOX - and of the different political forces that support it and its independence and coup partners only responds to one objective: to place us outside democracy and to place us in the discourse of hatred in order to activate fraudulently and illegally, through articles 10 and 9 of the 2002 Law, the illegalization of our formation. He's had a chance to answer and he hasn't. Now you have a new opportunity for five minutes. Everything is being recorded in the Journal of Sessions, as we wanted, because we are getting ahead and marking the way for the Government. Your speech on hate crimes in our formation has no sustenance, Minister of Justice, as is not the case with the very serious accusations that were made in this House yesterday about our formation when the non-legislative proposal presented by your party was debated, apparently to protect the LGBT collective, and which again involved a political use of homosexuals to attack VOX. Minister of Justice, answer: how far are you willing to go to stay in Moncloa? Are you going to throw yourself through the ravine, too? Because you've already seen where your predecessor ended up in office and the person who used to be of absolute confidence to President Sánchez. Of course, minister, what under no circumstances did I expect you, who is a doctor of law as a magistrate, to lie openly in this rostrum. Of course you are a judge and of course I am a state lawyer in special services, but with a big difference: I continue to recognize and defend the state and the national interest, while you, toga minister, are a minister who has abandoned and turned her back on justice and her toga colleagues. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u160	To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u161	Mrs Olona, I understand that you are making the most immeasurable efforts in the world to put VOX on the political agenda of this country, but, frankly, you have a delusion that the government is obsessed with VOX. Look, no, the government is obsessed with one thing, which is the economic recovery and economic and social transformation of this country, with helping the citizens of this country to emerge from the worst economic, social and health crisis we have experienced in recent decades. [[applause]] But you only talk about yourselves, you only care about yourselves. [[Applauds]] That if anyone's here thinking about VOX. But who's thinking about VOX? [[Applauds]] Really! The Government is focused on citizenship and this Minister of Justice is focused on the public justice service, on giving citizens the best courts and tribunals, the best access to public justice law, the best resources, the best human resources, the best training... The Minister of Justice is focused on that. Honestly, I think you have a dangerous delusion derived from an exaggerated inferiority complex. [[Applauds]] Because having to be constantly saying that one is a state lawyer, even in special services, or a judge, or notary, or whatever, denotes a lack of political category. All right, Your Honor! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, [[Applauds]] I'm not a judge, I'm as political as you are and I do politics as you do, that's right, trying not to create confusion in citizenship, being transparent and explaining things as they are. I will tell you one thing, in crimes of this kind - and I return to the content of your inquiry - attention to the victim so that she does not feel excluded or discriminated against is particularly relevant. From the ministry I run, but also from the Ministry of the Interior, we are working hard to obviously give the best answer. It is already modernizing, transforming and working on a second plan to combat hate crimes, as you know. Furthermore, I would like to say that in any case it is a matter of state - this is not a trivial thing - where we all have a lot to contribute. I look at you, I look at you, and I wonder how you differ, how I differ, from a migrant woman. How do we differ? Do we differ in the color of the hair? Do we differ in the outfit we wear? How do we differ? We do not differ in anything because we are the same, because we have the same human rights. [[Applauds]] And when we talk about boys and girls, they still have more human rights because they are reduced in their protection, in their level of protection. You, as a public official, like me, have an obligation, because you have complied with the Constitution here, right? He has complied with the Constitution. Well, the Constitution, in its article 9, says that you as a public official, like me, have to remove all obstacles that impede or hinder the freedom, rights and security of all people. That's our obligation. [[Applauds]] I have already told you what are the main reasons for the hatred in our country, I have repeated it throughout my first intervention. I also have to insist on one thing: one victim cannot be given priority over another and one group cannot be given priority over another, but each victim and each crime has its own specificities. Do not do so, putting everything in a bag in which it is confused and where the uniqueness of each of these crimes is not specifically dealt with, is very dangerous. There is one thing that is to manipulate politically, to distort and, moreover, to do so insidiously, that is to want to deny reality, that is to divert the attention of the groups that are really being persecuted and that are the object of aggression. That's dangerous. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán shows her tablet which reads: 'Answer the question']] Hate crimes can be directed against a wide variety of groups and people, but the important thing is also to know at every moment who these groups are, who this violence is focusing on. There are people who are afraid, there are groups who are being systematically discriminated against. Our obligation is to be aware of this and to do everything possible, from our responsibility, to help them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u163	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government can explain why it defends against international agencies that housing policy must be at the service of the interests of the Government and not of the citizen. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u165	Wait a minute, Your Honor. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u166	Today, I have the honour to defend this motion from my parliamentary group to alleviate the damage it causes that we do not yet have the so-called Housing Act. It is a motion that has its importance not because of the issue, which is not minor, but because it is the last questionable motion in this House to Mr Ábalos. It can be a historical motion as historical it will be the memory of the former minister, who will unfortunately be known not for his activity at the head of the ministry but for other things, for various scandals - the Delcy Gate, Plus Ultra - as well as for a worrying sheet of services in the matter of housing, where the most important has been a system of aids that has not worked, for legalizing the okupation and for attacking and obviating the right to private property. We are deeply concerned about the Housing Act, because the Government has shown us that housing policy will always be at the service of its political interests. And it has proved this, first of all, by resorting to the Catalan law that limits rents to the Constitutional Court without requesting their suspension. Why? Well, said by the same government, to ease tensions. And second, yielding to the pressures of Podemos and coming to regulate the price of rents with methods each more unfortunate. With these methods and without housing law we wonder what they intend to solve. Are you going to solve the situation of vulnerable people? No, no, Will you guarantee the right to private property? No, no, Are you going to guarantee young people access to housing? No, no, The only thing that guarantees you - as long as you do not take them out - is that you do not have frictions with your partners that endanger your stay in the Moncloa. A Housing Act was being made to serve the interests of the Government, not to serve the interests of citizens. In addition, the Government itself has set deadlines, as it fulfils them. All we want is for them to comply. They put a deadline in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience document they sent to Europe, and also laid the foundations for the necessary collaboration with the rehabilitation plans and its 20,000 sustainable housing programme. First half of 2021: public information on the legal text, non-compliance; first quarter of 2021: referral to the Council of Ministers, non-compliance. It's all been breached. Objective data, as well as objective data, show that their social shield has not worked: the number of evictions in the first quarter of 2021 rose by 13,4 % and of those, more than 70 % are evictions for unpaid rents; there are 350,000 fewer members of Social Security and almost 300,000 jobs destroyed in 24 hours, and for young people, the emancipation rate has fallen by 16 % compared to 2020. Given the increase in evictions, legal insecurity, the fate of rent prices and the shortage of land, these promised reforms are urgent and if they do not want to do so, add to the reforms of the People's Party. That is why we ask you in this motion to be serious and correct the information you have sent to Europe, because it only creates uncertainty and what puts at risk and at risk is the sending and executing of European funds. In addition, housing funds have generated a great deal of expectations, and for the Government they should be fundamental because their credibility goes into it, so that the 2021 budget that they approved at the end of the year is credible, where it was said that they increased funding by 300 per cent over the previous budget, with the total investment being about €2250 million for sustainable rehabilitation for the most part, which were almost all the programmes of the plan. But this increase is free, it was in exchange for precise reforms and commitments, including the Housing Act. Its star programme, which has the most funding - more than EUR 3 billion for the rehabilitation of neighbourhoods and urban environments - will not be possible if they do not make the promised reforms: the Housing Act for the acceleration of financing and administrative procedures for its implementation and its 20,000 sustainable housing still in budgetary uncertainty, and moreover, without soil. We both call for the extension of this motion, unless they want to turn this into an E. Juegan Plan, in addition, with the hope of the construction sector, which expects the creation of 700,000 jobs that will not exist if the government does not do itss. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a state housing law, the first in the history of democracy, and not precisely to control the price of rent. The Housing Act must regulate the taxation and availability of sufficient land, create a common framework for the concept of housing protection and regulate the social role of property, as well as provide mechanisms for public-private collaboration and ensure that adequate housing is available, but above all it must avoid increasing resources to the Constitutional Court of housing laws of the Autonomous Communities, so that the competences between the State and the Autonomous Communities in the area of housing must be precisely defined. The Spaniards do not deserve housing to be a currency of exchange among their government partners. There are many problems to be solved and the Government offers many discrepancies and confrontations, but few solutions and little accountability. A cage of crickets, ladies and gentlemen, fighting for their survival, but not for solving the problems of the Spanish. In this way, the agreements proposed by this motion facilitate the development of the housing funds that are so much needed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u167	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. It has been two and a half months since the debate on housing policy, a main issue in which the Government of Pedro Sánchez is also sinking. As at this time there has been a change in the ownership of the ministry, it is to be hoped that there will be a turn in the management, and hence that the five points of this parliamentary initiative will be very timely, which provide a very definite and much deeper political orientation, if one can, in view of the umpteenth show of internal division on this matter between the two parties that make up the blue bank, encouraged by Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, with Spain plunged into a deep economic crisis exacerbated by the COVID-19, the paradox of a growing real estate market is taking place, with the average price of housing evolving, which is already 3.3% more expensive than before the pandemic. There is also an urgent need to reverse the trend in the area of rent, both in the free market and in the one promoted by the administrations, in order to curb the continued price escalation and to encourage measures thinking of young people, who are seriously affected by this Government's policy. Hence the importance of the package proposed by the People's Group, which supports my vote, because it is an incentive to comply with the timetables and commitments of a housing law that must be at the service of the citizens, and not at the service of the interests of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u169	Thank you so much. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u170	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that the opposition's urging the Government to meet deadlines that are never being met is never too much. I suppose the Government will be in this, because we are all waiting for the preliminary draft housing law, first because it has been promised and, secondly, because, for example, in Cantabria there is a already drafted housing law that is waiting for the law of the State, to see if one of the basic precepts should be aligned. With regard to the programmes for the rehabilitation and construction of rental housing, it was urgent that they should approve and publish the housing plan, because it should be remembered that the development decrees of the autonomous communities took their time. I have been a public works and housing advisor for Cantabria and, despite being the first or almost the first to do so, it took us many months. And I also take the opportunity to tell you that it would be very good to close the current plan and proceed to the payments immediately, to approve the new plan, which has to be in force on 1 January, and time is running out. In addition, actions that can be funded by Europe must be compatible with those that are not, such as accessibility, and that can be financed with the State's plan through the Autonomous Communities and the Government itself. Just remember that construction is a major engine for both investment and employment by its multiplier effect, and it is what we do best or what we know best in Spain. We must not abandon a sector that, on the other hand, will never disappear; everything cannot be a virtual and digital world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u171	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have to work hard. But they're not going to do anything with this either. They have already announced it, they have already said it; they are going to say that there is a lot of money, they are going to make the regulations... - said Mr Mazón - but, in the end, there are things that depend on what the Spanish Government does, because, if not, they cannot be done. And what's going to happen? Well, they're not gonna do anything. Like everything, they announce it, they say it, and once the announcement is made, let time pass. From time to time you come here, you complain a little, some get nervous and you go through the day; that's right, without letting go a euro of those who have to let go. Ten minutes ago, we saw how the Minister of Justice taught us all a lesson about hate crime. And one wonders: What do you mean, a lesson about hate crime? Let's see, put it into practice! Saturday, this Saturday-east, not in seven centuries - there will be a tribute to the greatest age, the most murderer there has been in Spain. [[Applauds]] Here's a deputy who killed his father, there's another deputy who killed his brother and his nieces. Will the Government of Spain do anything to prevent this hate crime? That's a hate crime! [[The applause continues]] Receiving and paying tribute to a murderer who's killed everything he's been able to until he's been arrested by the police, that's a hate crime. Is the government finally going to do something? Are you going to prove with facts what the minister said today in words? Surely not, because behind that hate crime there are those who support the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and several Members of the Joint Group, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u173	For the Basque parliamentary group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u174	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen - most logically - we come to talk about housing and we end up talking again about terrorists and I don't know what stories; after all, it is the nationalist Members who defend the interests of our countries, and not others, who come to talk about other things, because they do not seem to be interested even in their territory. As Mr Mazón said, it is very good that the Government is required to comply with its commitments. That is what the People's Party motion apparently says in principle, and it says this when it urges the Government to comply with the timetable of reforms in the area of housing and urban rehabilitation to which it has committed itself, or to speed up the process of the preliminary draft housing law or to reformulate the periodicization of investments already announced or committed in the programme and which are integrated into that Recovery and Resilience Plan. All right, what happens is that Mrs Zurita, with a very different tone from that of the inquiry, also said that housing cannot be a currency of change in any aspect, and that is the issue that concerns us, since the matter of housing where it does not end up being a policy of change between the right-wing and left-wing state parties is precisely because it involves interference in the sphere of intervention of those entities that are competent in the matter; because this is what it is about, that is to say, to urge the obtaining of funds and their redistribution, but ignoring in a palmary way the field of distribution of competences in the field of housing that exists in the whole of the Autonomous Communities, which exists in the Basque Country, according to its Housing Law, and that there is according to the recognition that of these competences has been carried out in a recent judgment of September 2018 by the Constitutional Court. In other words, it is the function of parliamentary control to recall or urge compliance with these measures, but it has nothing to do with that debate. Where the right and the left coincide, where the PSOE and PP and other parties coincide, it is precisely in instrumenting, in giving way to these funds, ignoring, omitting, obviating the competences that exist in the matter, which are both of the autonomous communities and - eye - of the local corporations as well. I'm going to make a simple assumption. Between that interpretation and this motion it has mediated a time in which, among other things, some rules have been issued in implementation of that Recovery and Resilience Plan. Thus, with regard to the provisions of paragraph C02.I04 on regeneration and demographic challenge programmes, Royal Decree 691/2021 of 3 August, regulating subsidies on energy rehabilitation for buildings in population-challenged municipalities, i.e., in those which do not reach 5000 inhabitants and which are subject to exceptions, provides for a system for the direct granting of subsidies to autonomous communities, which are competent in this area, as well as their distribution and delivery, for which the regulatory bases to be subject to the beneficiary autonomous communities are approved. Regulatory basis for the autonomous competition communities, of what? As regards aid or direct investment. But the curious thing is that in the exhibition it talks about that the model adopted in this activity is of collaboration of the autonomous communities, and, however, what it does then is to restrict its functions by performing the processing of aid applications and managing the funds. Even in its operative part, article 11 provides for a coordinating body. Ladies and gentlemen, coordination and cooperation in the legal field are absolutely different concepts, in respect of which - not involuntaryly - no distinction is made or made; and in the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, obviating Article 10.31 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, but, I see, in the case of local corporations, municipalities, obviating also Article 25.2(d) of the Law on the Basis of the Local Regime. We are very afraid that with these initiatives and with the Resilience Plan we are going to seek to return to a State policy, that is to say to intervene by the State in those matters which are already supposed to have been achieved by that competitive peace, that peace which has existed since 1978 in the field of competition distribution. In short, it's not being done. We do not like the state's action in this area, we do not like the PP's proposal, which simply recalls those obligations, we do not like this initiative. We are not going to support ourselves or others, we are not going to participate in these kinds of discussions. We are going to abstain, but we want it to be a very critical abstention with this type of action and the repeated ignorance of the competences of local corporations and the autonomous communities in the field of housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u175	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u176	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that having to debate this motion surprises and should smile at the PSOE and Podemos, because what we are debating today is a motion in which the government is asked to comply with its commitments; not only with its commitments, but with the commitments it has also communicated to Europe in order to be able to continue to receive European funds. Really, are we gonna have to discuss this? Are you really going to vote against the request to comply with your own commitments to Europe, which, if not fulfilled, will put the arrival of European funds at risk? However, the important thing would be to analyse the proposal that you sent to Europe in your day, because in it you say that since 1978 the right to decent and adequate housing has not been legally regulated in Spain, and that is not true. Since 1978 it has been legislated in this country. Moreover, they have told you today in this rostrum. We have a law of building order, we have a law of horizontal property, we have a law of urban leases, there are autonomous competences and it has been legislated in different autonomous communities, where the Socialist Party has also ruled, just as it has ruled the People's Party, and there are local competences and, therefore, it also regulates housing in this area. Therefore, it is a milonga that you sent to Europe in June, saying that there had never been any housing legislation here. Moreover, when it has been legislated, it may have been done wrong. This same week we discussed a royal decree-law, and they were validated, where there was a social measure that precisely consisted in allowing illegal occupations of second empty residences. We are afraid that this will be all the way you will have, the way you will follow for proper housing legislation. And we believe that the problem is that the battle is precisely between the PSOE and its partners in Podemos or among other formations that support it in the government, such as Esquerra and Bildu, which are formations that they really want to attack the right to private property, in that struggle for a decent and adequate housing recognized constitutionally. And the question is how far the government is going to give in to contenting its parliamentary partners, how far they are going to give in even putting at risk the rights of the Spaniards, their freedom and their efforts to obtain a heritage with which to live and in which to live. Of course, it is logical for you to be required to fulfil your commitments, especially when it depends on European funds coming, but also when it depends on a coordinated reading of articles 33 and 47 of the Constitution to enact a law to have decent and adequate housing, with full respect for private property. That right is guaranteed and promoted by realistic and sensible policies, not by policies such as those you have set in motion in Catalonia from Esquerra, from the nationalist parties, which have been shown to have not worked, or as they have been set in motion in other European countries, which have also been shown to be absolutely ineffective. If they want to make housing legislation effective and coherent, promote social housing for young people and vulnerable groups, expand the social housing park by encouraging owners to put these properties on the market; encourage, and do not constrain the market. Do not do as in Catalonia, where that is what is happening and where the Government itself has appealed to the Constitutional Court - a sign that it does not like this own legislation - that law which restricts and limits the rights of the parties to a rental contract. Those measures that Podemos, Bildu and Esquerra Republicana are fighting in an office with the Socialist Party are negative. These are measures that will not only not allow affordable housing to exist, but will put us in a lot of trouble to receive those European funds, which are so lacking. What needs to be done is to respect the freedom, the rights of the Spaniards, their heritage and, of course, to fulfil their commitments in Europe. That is precisely why we will support that emotion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u177	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG is clear that in the area of housing we cannot rely exclusively on the market and therefore we know that public policies are fundamental to guaranteeing the effective right to decent housing. Thus, for us it is a priority to take measures to regulate the maximum price of rents, to promote the provision of adequate public housing and also to place public rental housing on the market. But it must not be forgotten that housing policy is the exclusive competence of Galicia, and what is left to the Spanish Government is to provide sufficient funding for that policy to be possible and effective. In addition, we call for the transfer of all housing from the Sareb to the Xunta to enable this housing park, which is currently immobilized, to contribute to an active public housing policy, since it is unjustifiable, even indecent, that, with the current housing needs, a public agency should keep thousands of houses immobilized, rather than activate them to provide housing solutions to many people who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u179	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u180	Thank you very much, President. I am glad that the People's Party is concerned about social issues, about housing. I would also like you to remind the Government and itself of other delays also on other important issues, such as the funding system, where they are at least half the blame. But sometimes your concern is distorted by your facts. They are concerned about housing, and it seems very good to me, but now, when the court has again brought down the appeal on the 3,000 houses that sold at a sale price to a vulture fund, you are going to appeal again. Who do you defend, the vultures or the people? Who do you care about, vultures or people? And they do so when they are also against the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage or against limiting the price of rent. I mean, are you in favor of who you really are? And I'm pretty clear about it. You're the only thing you're trying to do all day, and we've seen it today, is wear and tear on the government. People care about a pepper, as they did yesterday in the Eurocamera voting against the rights of the LGBTI community. In short, this has a name, postureo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u181	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u182	Good morning. Once again we find ourselves in the housing debate, and one gives you the feeling that this debate is an eternal problem and that to some extent the two great Spanish parties are already doing well this eternal problem, because here they have a line to pull from, an electoral line to blame each other with. The truth, and I have said it once, even from this rostrum, is that housing is a long-term issue. He said that if every time there was a speech, an article in the press, a pronouncement on housing someone put on a brick, surely this housing problem would be more than solved or, at least, focused. Because the current picture - let's be honest - on the one hand, is that the government does not make its housing law and, on the other hand, completely regardless of the autonomous system, it also challenges any law that the autonomous communities make on housing, and, therefore, the problem remains nailed. What do I want to put to you next? PeCAT's approach, the Democratic Party's approach, the focus of a center party that aims to approach the problem rigorously in this area of housing. And here I believe, sincerely, that we have to put some points on the table: first, the owners are not bad people per se. There is everything, but this group is full of small families, small individuals, people who have believed in saving, people who have believed in the culture of effort and, therefore, sometimes do the rental of a home that has inherited or purchased their way of living or their way of supplementing their income; that the regulation of rent prices has proved not to be optimal and, therefore, for some systems, such as those in Berlin, those in San Francisco or as it is happening in my city, in Barcelona, it is shown that it is not an optimal solution; that the optimal solution, in which everyone agrees, is the drive of the housing park, a housing park that can be even multigenerational, but this must be put funds, intention and execution, so that it is a reality beyond words. And this can also be accompanied by two major measures, tax incentives in IRPF, in IBI for those people who rent the floors, and, therefore, these are paths that must be explored and have a great journey, and finally, guarantees, legal certainty and support must be provided. What's the reason why a lot of people don't rent a flat? Because of the fear of not charging rent, because of the fear of finding the apartment in bad condition when it returns. So we have to help these people, we have to give legal certainty, we have to help these houses get out of the market, because surely if they have guarantees, if they have legal certainty, much of the problem, a large part of the journey we will have done. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these are the principles on which we have to base the housing debate, beyond the fact that the PP and the PSOE are throwing the mess at their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u183	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u184	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing I want to highlight is that the title of the motion resulting from an inquiry, the written content of the motion and what has finally been said have nothing to do with it. I was very interested in seeing what service and what foreign countries you were going to point out in housing policy and I was left with the urge. Then tell me, please. Given this, we have considered it a good time to make a few reflections. We share that they are late, very late, and we also remind them - it should not be our function, but we will do it - that this housing law was the object of the investment pact they made with Podemos. Therefore, what we would be interested to know, apart from a relatively urgent procedure, above all going out in the pandemic and with all that we have done or have done on the subject of the social shield, is in which regime you are going to legislate on housing, that is, we are interested to know where you are going to shoot the shots. First question, will they respect the normative framework for conferring exclusive housing powers on the Autonomous Communities? I tell you this: I am an independentist and I know very badly that I have to demand competences and respect for autonomous competences, because I want them all. [[Applauds]] But, well, if this is the frame, at least respect it. And it was said by Mr Barandiaran, with whom I share part of the comment, just as I share what has been said about the Sareb. Do you want to do the favor of making these floors available to the territorial entities so that we can serve our people? Second question, will you consider housing as a market asset? If that's the case, I'm telling you, we're not gonna share it. We understand that housing provides a fundamental human right, which is the basis of the rest of human rights. How are we going to have the right to privacy, honor, our house, not to be kicked in the door if we don't have a door? I mean, get the door, and then the police will come and kick us out. But if we don't guarantee that...! What plans are we going to make regarding what you call sinogarism, a word I don't like, because we have typified something that shouldn't exist, in any way? How are we going to provide housing for the most vulnerable families? Are you going to make a regulation that stops evictions when it's not about illegal occupations, and in that we can agree? Are you going to do it? Are they going to introduce the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act so that it is mandatory, mandatory, procedural requirement that people are provided with somewhere to live and that there is a report of social vulnerability? They're gonna do it? If you are going to do all that, do it quickly and, if not, too, because that will enable us to negotiate and show ourselves against that text. I want to end with a couple of comments, which maybe we don't do enough. It seems that the bench on the left we agree on the regulation of rents. We believe that our civil law allows us to do so within our own legislation. You filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court and did not suspend it - it would only be missing!-. But, even without that suspension, who leads to the Barcelona Plenary that this is considered a tense market has been approved today and, therefore, it can be applied - we have become again: the municipal group of Republican Left of Catalonia-Barcelona today has finally presented the tense market declaration. I will, because I have twenty-one seconds left. When I go home - I am renting, and I assure you that the disproportion between the tenant's and the tenant's rights is incredible; don't tell me that the market is tense because there is no security for the tenants - in a poor neighborhood of Barcelona, I am accompanied by words written on the walls of my poor neighborhood, which say: neither houses without people nor people without houses. That's the goal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u185	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Members. We come here this morning because we are being told about the need to comply with the requirements of international agencies; indeed, one of the subjects of debate within the Government is how we are going to comply with the guidelines of the United Nations Committee, which has required us to seek the formula to ban forced evictions without housing alternatives and to articulate legislative mechanisms to ensure that housing becomes an effective right, and also to guarantee the right to tenure to the entire population. We are faced with a fundamental debate which, in essence, is asking us whether or not we are prepared to bring about a change in the productive model. We and we share the need to regulate the housing market, to regulate rents and rent prices. First of all, to detract from that pressure that wages live in our country and so that money that does not go to speculation or that does not go to income can go to consumption, and that produces and facilitates an economic recovery. It is a question of contrasting two models: speculating, extracting and competing in the face of caring, producing and cooperating. It is a question of changing the model, of putting on the table that in this country it is again more profitable to invest in production than to speculate with housing. That is a fundamental change in the vector in order to face the change in the economic model. We cannot continue to base the economic model or the reactivation of the economic model on construction as the main engine. Thinking about it would be a mistake. There is a need for a change in the productive model, and that means that those who have the opportunity to invest see that, outside of real estate speculation and in the productive sphere, it is profitable, and that means that it is necessary to reduce the extraordinary benefits that are obtained through real estate speculation. Real estate speculation is not sustainable for society as a whole and is openly inefficient, but it is not something that has occurred to us. The National Commission on Markets and Competition has opened for a year a price-fixing file for Idealista, the main real estate portal. This means that there is a manipulation of the market. Where market manipulation exists, it is necessary to implement substantive regulatory measures that put an end to the possibilities that these speculative actors may have. We have seen this in the field of light: Iberdrola's remedy is pending for manipulating prices in 2013. We are now, unfortunately, seeing the consequences of still having legislation that is not hard enough with monopolies, to the point of reaching the blackmail that we are currently experiencing from these large monopolies. We and we believe that the road must be different: putting the right to housing at the centre, putting the role of public administrations at the centre in order to guarantee the rights of all citizens. That is why we support the Catalan Rent Price Regulation Act. We did so because we are convinced that that is the philosophy that public administrations must have at the moment, the search for the guarantee of that right. There are those who like article 155 very much. To us the article that we like most about the Constitution - we must say - is, among others, 128 and also the fulfillment of 33, which speaks of the social function of property. [[applause]] Ownership is not an absolute right, but it is a right that is regulated to fulfil that function, to face the pressure of these monopolies, which are putting obstacles in the way of regulation in line with European regulations that are seeking to limit real estate speculation, which is a constitutional mandate. Faced with these situations, in the face of pressure from the big lobbies, in the face of pressure from those who suggest that housing remains an element of speculation, I would like to recall a few words that said that the first truth is that the freedom of a democracy is not safe if people tolerate the growth of power in private hands to the point that it becomes something stronger than the democratic state itself. That's what Roosevelt said. What we have as legislators is to protect the population from the voraciousness of speculators. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u187	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have been seven months late since you promised to introduce us for your debate a new housing law; seven months, because you do not agree with the band of incompetent, communist and separatists who support you. Limitation of rental prices, criminalization of empty housing, expropriation and prohibition of evictions. 96% of the rental park belongs to small owners, to families who, if they do, find their pension fund or a way to supplement their income. The tenant runs with all the expenses, the IBI, the community of owners, maintenance and spills, and if it is added that rents are limited from above, it can fall into a negative profitability, that is, it costs him money to rent his property, and, of course, the offer is reduced, there is less accessibility to the house. The Government appealed to the Constitutional Court the Catalan Housing Act, which limits rental prices, and, after winning the appeal, has not requested its suspension. From the ministry we are told that they prefer to bet on dialogue and agreement; rather, they are bent on blackmailing Catalan separatism. Let's see what happened in Catalonia on the first anniversary of the implementation of this law La Razón: 'The control of rent fails in Catalonia: collapse of offer and less fall of prices than in Madrid'. [[sample press clippings]] La Vanguardia: 'Catalunya: less flats for rent after the rent control has been implemented'. the Economist.es: 'Balance of a year of price control for rent in Catalonia: a failure that reduces the offer and hardly influences the price'. Digital Economy: 'The Catalan law of rent sinks the offer of flats in its first year'. Mr. Mayoral's gone and he couldn't hear this, but he's still with his canteen. They want to put in place a regulation like this, knowing that it is a sovereign failure. How important are your armchairs? Or rather, do they care so little that some Spanish families have access to decent housing? Two and a half million social rental dwellings are what we need to put ourselves on the European average. In 2018, the ministry announced the construction of 20,000 homes for this purpose. Today, only 16% is running. How many are delivered? Zero. And this month of May they raised the promise to a hundred thousand. We don't know how or when or where, but the social shield demagogues have raised the promise to a hundred thousand, and that's it. In their new law they seek to penalize the owners of those vacant dwellings. We know from the INE that 70% of empty housing is located in what we call unpopulated Spain. I suggest that you stop putting sticks on the wheels in rural areas, that you attend the family institution to combat the demographic challenge and that you work. Work to bring infrastructure to those Spanish regions that, by their loyalty to Spain, you have abandoned. [[Applauds]] From the highest institution of the State, the fundamental right to private property is being curtailed and, if not encouraged, the illegal occupation is being justified. There is no doubt that governments must take measures to protect those families in vulnerable situations, but these measures cannot be taken at the expense of the efforts of Spanish families. They must find a balance between the public and the private, do not forget that what is public is paid from the private through the payment of Spanish taxes. [[Applauds]] This Saturday will come to Congress the Platform of Occupy Affected to demand an antiokupas law. I have no material time in this intervention to tell you what these families are suffering from the indolence of the public authorities. But there will be VOX to support them, as we have already done, by presenting proposals for legislation to introduce into the Criminal Procedure Act illegal occupation and another to aggravate penalties in the Criminal Code, to equip the police with tools and to extend protection to owners. Let's see how you explain to them, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that it was you who, by amending the Criminal Code in 2015, passed these kinds of crimes from serious crimes to minor crimes. Gentlemen of the Government, stop coercing the owners. Less populism and, for Spanish families, more housing. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u189	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are presented by the People's Parliamentary Group with a motion following an inquiry in which, in summary, they call on the Government to speed up the processing of the housing law and to reformulate programmes for the rehabilitation and construction of social rental housing financed by the European Union. All this, according to the People's Group, is because they say that it is not complying with the commitments contained in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Your Honor, the European Commission approved in June the Recovery and Resilience Plan sent to it by the Government of Spain, whose component 2 dedicated to the urban agenda represents an investment leap... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u191	One second, Your Honor. Please, go out quietly or take your seats. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u192	As I told you, its component 2, dedicated to the urban agenda, represents a huge investment leap, amounting to almost 7 billion euros. With this component 2, the Government is fulfilling everything it has committed to. For starters, with regard to the state housing law. The previous public consultation and participative period of this law have already been carried out and the preliminary draft law will be adopted before the end of this year. It is a commitment to the European Union that has been reiterated by the Government in its 2021 Regulatory Plan, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 31 August, and will be adopted in the third quarter of 2022, as outlined in the Plan. On the other hand, this has nothing to do with the rehabilitation programme, which follows a parallel path and whose steps have already begun to take. As a result, work has already been done on the modernisation of investments and the territorialisation of those corresponding to 2021, investments of 1151 million euros by agreement by sectoral conference of 21 July this year, and as foreseen in the plan, 1 billion euros will be transferred in 2022 for the construction of social housing. The Government, therefore, is looking where it is looking, is meeting the main objectives of component 2. It is clear that this is the case and that they know it, because autonomous communities governed by the People's Party are benefiting from this progress. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it has been difficult for me to understand the true motivation of this motion, unless it is an improvised perch to bring back to this plenary its usual apocalyptic speech, completely alienated from reality, against the action of the Government in the field of housing. They say in their motion that the Government's housing policy is not at the service of citizens'interests. Yours is, I imagine. Citizens should be asked what housing policy they prefer, whether the government's policy, based on the construction of 100,000 housing units for social rent, or that of the People's Party, based on the sale of social housing to vulture funds. What do you prefer? Are the cuts in housing investment in Rajoy's budgets or the 373 % increase in Rajoy's budgets? What do you prefer? A housing legislation based on land deregulation, that of Aznar, that caused the housing bubble that led us to the economic and financial crisis and thousands of evictions? Or a housing legislation, as this Government claims, to curb abusive rent increases, contain rent prices or improve the fiscal framework to enable more housing to be offered and cater for the most vulnerable? What do you prefer? The social shield on housing developed by this government, with the cessation of evictions, payment periods, aid to vulnerable people, ICO credits, all extended until 31 October? Or do nothing and abandon people to their fate, as you did in the previous crisis? The citizens spoke at the polls and said they preferred left-wing policies to their own. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, once and for all accept the election results and respect the millions of citizens who voted for this government. Leave the blockades and comply with the Constitution. Respect the people and respect democracy. Being next to the citizens isn't beating each other in the chest. To love our society is not to open an account in Switzerland, it is not to sell social housing to vulture funds. To be on the side of citizens is to develop access to decent housing as a right and not as a commodity. We will vote no to your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u193	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE REAL REASONS FOR WHICH THE INDULTS ARE GRANTED TO THE SECOND SENTENCE OF THE SECOND ROOM OF THE SUPREME COURT WITHOUT COMPLETING THE LEGAL CASES FOR IT. [[File number 173/000090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u194	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the actual grounds on which pardons are granted to those convicted by the judgment of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, 459/2019, without resorting to legal cases for this purpose. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u195	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, on 1 October it will be four years since an attempt was made to carry out a coup d'état in Spain against its unity, against its Constitution and against the coexistence of the Spaniards, trampling on the rule of law. The popular accusation of VOX fulfilled, once again, and sat on the bench of the defendants of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court to the coup leaders. After a lengthy trial, the Supreme Court's judgment of October 14, 2019, the conviction for serious crimes of sedition, embezzlement and disobedience, reflected this. Following the request for pardons, the mandatory reports of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office were forceful; there is no need to revisit them meticulously, as we did on a previous occasion, but it is good to recall some sentences that answer the question of this motion of what were the real purposes. For the Supreme Court's own report literally told us: Some of those who aspire to the benefit of the right of grace are, precisely, political leaders of the parties that today guarantee the stability of the Government, called to the exercise of the right of grace. And he added in another part of that report: The pardons in this case are presented as an unacceptable solution for the early termination of criminal responsibility. And the Office of the Prosecutor of the Criminal Chamber, no less forceful than the Chamber itself: The circumstances in the case do not advise the granting of the pardon requested by not appreciating the reasons for justice, fairness or public utility that authorizes its granting. Or when he was saying to us: Pardon is an exceptional measure that must never be identified with political motives or those derived from political agreements; it is not a measure intended to satisfy short-term political interests. Or when the prosecutors told us: The discretionary nature of the pardon does not legitimize arbitrariness or the deviation of power or the removal of legality. I do not know whether we are all aware of the seriousness of what it means that a Government has had to be pointed out by reports from the Criminal Chamber itself of the Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office and that in those - insults, because they are insults to the rule of law and justice - political pardons there was a deviation from power, a departure from legality, arbitrariness and partisan interests. Those pardons were finally granted on 22 June 2021 by the Minister of Justice, Mr Campo, who, once he complied with the order of his master and lord, Mr Sánchez, discredited his own profession, his own comrades, and did a weak favour for justice, democracy and the rule of law. We in this motion are calling for a reform of the Penal Code, so that the requirement of violence is not necessary if the constituent acts of the rebellion are committed or if there is no need for tumultuous uprising or force if the objective of sedition of the law is given. Because it doesn't matter if the rebellion or the sedition is done with nice words, white glove and tie. We do ask for violence and tumultuous rise to be an aggravating factor. Violence or force must be aggravated by crime, but not conditional, so that some do not come with the trap of declaring with a warm voice the independence and secession of a part of the territory. [[Applauds]] We request that there be no possibility of conditional release for anyone being investigated or tried for these serious crimes of rebellion or sedition. We ask that prison benefits be limited precisely to those who have been convicted of such crimes. Likewise, in this motion we call for the reform of the Pardon Act, so that pardon can never be granted when we are talking about such serious crimes that violate the Constitution itself and public order, such as rebellion or sedition. The blackmail table has been held today. It is not a negotiating table, it is the blackmail that the government once again accepts the coupsmen. And the question that is being asked by all the Spaniards, which we are asking ourselves today in the House, is what can be negotiated after forty years of permanent divestitures and concessions, both by the governments of the People's Party and the governments of the Socialist Party. What else can one give in to those who have openly said that they will try again to break Spain, that they will trample on the Constitution, that they disobey the laws and the courts? What else can you talk about if you're not in court and sitting back on the bench? [[Applauds]] No more national sovereignty can be ceded. The presence of the State in Catalonia can no longer be abandoned. The gap and inequality between the Spanish cannot be further broken. One cannot continue to give in to competences. You can't keep buying them with budgets. One cannot continue to abandon the Catalans who are not separatists. You can't abandon our State Security Forces and Corpses. The separatists have been crying out to the satisfaction that they want a right of supposed self-determination, but the sad thing is that there will come a time when this referendum will not be necessary, because, in fact, on the basis of so many transfers, so many concessions, so much blackmail, they will have managed to break even the last remnant of the State, of the nation and of national sovereignty. The real reason for these pardons is that Pedro Sánchez remains in his government at all costs, even at the expense of the Spanish nation and the national sovereignty of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u196	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. The perverse handling of the exercise of the pardon of those convicted in the trial of the trial, with which Pedro Sánchez compensates the independenceist groups for their parliamentary support in the motion of censure of June 2018 and in the current XIV Legislature, justifies this initiative so that in Congress some deputies can express our total discrepancy and rejection in the face of a historically embarrassing situation, such as that of a president of government capable of seriously disqualifying the exercise of justice in Spain and, specifically, the judgment that took place impeccably and in the eyes of the whole world in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of this motion by VOX, which in practice, apart from the amendments it promotes both the Organic Law 10/1995, the Criminal Code, and the Law of June 1870, rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon, constitutes a repudiation of the comments and assessments made by the President himself, with whom he has put into suffocate nothing more and nothing less than the independence of the Administration of Justice and which have had to be contested and criticized at the recent opening of the judicial year. Ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of the pardons is the unacceptable and imminent negotiation that will begin in a matter of hour and a half with the Catalan separatist forces, which is being pre-adhered with the multilevel Spain's sanchist fan, an aberrant artifice that is moving towards a deep inequality between Spaniards, with territories of first and second. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a disastrous day in the history of our country, its national sovereignty and the unity of Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u198	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mr. Ortega Smith, do you know what's going on, that if this motion had been introduced by you before the election, Sánchez would have voted for you. [[Laughter]] He said that there would be no pardons and that he would reinforce the crime of sedition and would therefore have voted in favour of it, but as he always does the opposite of what he says in the electoral process, we are where we are. Today we have the famous meeting at which, on the one hand, some of them represent a lot, but they represent more or less - I reckon - 11% of the Catalan electoral census, and, on the other hand, others representing a lot too, but which will be about 25% of the Spanish electoral census. These are the representations and this is important to say. And they meet to talk, but what are they going to talk about? Some say they're going to talk about the pandemic. The Government of Spain says: Let's talk about the pandemic, about health problems. The other side says: Let's talk about self-determination, the right to decide, amnesty and independence. So, everyone else what are we, assholes or what? Do you really think that the rest of the Spanish, millions and millions of people, are here to say thank you? Do you really think that? But don't you realize how serious this is? Don't you realize that if it wasn't because you're mistreating an important part of the people who live in Catalonia - and that affects the rest of Spain, but especially those who feel like second-rate citizens in Catalonia, because you're mistreating them - if it wasn't for all that it means to the image, for all that it means to the whole of Spain, if it wasn't for all that, would that be a laugh? [[The lady]] But what is this? The President of the Government of Spain saying I'm going, I'm not going... But if we all knew I was going. How come he's not going? If they say to you, "Listen, either you come or the matter is over here, the legislature is over. If they've been told, and that's what happened, and the president says, if we have to go, it's gone. Because you two are delighted to meet each other so that the legislature can continue, because you are ruling in Catalonia. And I am not going to go into more details of what the Catalonian Government is like because I am very respectful of what happens in each place and with those elected in those Parliaments, in this case in the Catalonian Parliament, and everyone will be able to position himself, but he will go into what happens in Spain as a whole. Everyone has to be very clear - and I have told you many times - that there will be no referendum on self-determination, there will be no referendum on self-determination, there will be no independence and there will be no amnesty. [[Applauds]] And even more, Mr Sánchez is thought to be there all his life, but no, because as there is still democracy in Spain, Mr Sánchez within not much will be history like the rest of the former Spanish presidents. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u200	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u201	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Someone has already said it before, the truth is that coming here to talk about pardons is to remember Juan Carlos Campo. Juan Carlos Campo is the paradigm, the example of how it is not necessary for a minister to be in his office long to destroy everything, to commit all kinds of trophies, to attack the separation of powers, against the rule of law, to offend the Supreme Court, to offend the Prosecutor's Office and most of the good lawyers in this country, who we understood should not be granted pardons. And the most striking thing, of course, is the retribution that Juan Carlos Campo, as magistrate, after faithfully fulfilling his mandate, receives from the president of the government: the fulminant cessation. This leads us to talk about this without being able to tell Juan Carlos Campo; it precisely removes the person to whom we can affect this behavior. It also demonstrates the moral chastisement of the President of the Government, the immorality of the President of the Government, who effectively said in an election campaign that he was going to bring Puigdemont to prison, that he was of course not going to grant pardons in any way, that he was going to criminalize the crime of illegal referendum and that what happened in Catalonia on October 1 was a crime of rebellion: October 14, 2017, Mr Sánchez. The observance of the sentence means its full fulfillment - it continues to say -, we have to put an end to the pardons - it is Mr Sánchez who speaks -, that is, to the interference of the Executive in the Judiciary. Carmen Calvo: A democratic government does not take prisoners out of jail. Oh, my gosh, what fairies! What guys who attack coexistence in Catalonia! What a barbarity Mr. Sánchez and Mrs. Calvo! In short, everything goes so far as to remain in power. As Inés Arrimadas says, in the next election campaign we will probably meet, in the tool of the television debate, Mr Sánchez with some shackles saying that he is going to bring Puigdemont him directly from Waterloo. The problem is that no one believes the Socialist Party's word anymore. No one believes in the word of the Government of Spain. [[The Lord]] That's why they want us to forget, they want the Spanish people to forget about this trophie. Deep down, they're ashamed of themselves. All we have to do is listen to Mr Bolaños, the Minister of the Presidency, how with his teeth, he says: I have no doubt that this is good for coexistence. Ask the policemen who were on the way to Layetana in the Diada being harassed by the hosts of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the partner of the Government of Spain. And what about the coexistence of powers in a democratic state? On this it seems that the pardons have not done a great favor either. The proponent of this motion has already said what the Prosecutor's Office said, what the Supreme Court said: There is no cause for justice or equity or public utility and, above all, pardons cannot be granted when there is no repentance, because the purpose of the sentence is social reintegration. You can't pardon the one who says he's going to do it again! This is drawer. I became a state lawyer to try to cooperate, to cooperate in the justice of this country, and I am greatly offended by pardons when they attack judges and prosecutors who have been the last dynamite of contention against separatism intended to break the Constitution, the rules of coexistence and the rule of law. And that is why I understand very correctly Mr Lesmes' words at the opening of the judicial year, when he says that in no way can justice be understood as an obstacle to coexistence when its purpose is to maintain the legal order. This is the main guarantee of coexistence: respect for the law and the rule of law. That is why all those public servants - police, civil guards, judges, prosecutors, state lawyers - who played their own physical integrity on October 1st and some of us who played our professional career, we played our future and we did it precisely to ensure compliance with the law, they offend us in a very special way these pardons, as that table of shame offends us. The other negotiating party says: Let's talk about self-determination, independence and amnesty. And they say from this side: No, but within the framework of legality. There's no one to believe it. They'll ask for more things and give in. And yes, it has already been said here, Mr García Adanero has taken it from me, today Sánchez would vote in favour of this motion. I'm sure he'd want to vote, but he'd be another Sanchez, he'd be the Sanchez from before, not the Sanchez from now on, who doesn't have a word. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u202	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u203	Good afternoon. Mr Ortega Smith, pardons are political, as you have done here now, as VOX does with this initiative. You have decided to table a motion like the one you are submitting now. As a parliamentary group, you could also have put forward a bill to change the Criminal Code, but you have chosen a political path. The pardons, we will recognize that they are a political path. You will see what route they have, but they are a necessary political path to be able to speak. The proposal that you put forward - you ask the government to do so, not you - goes in the opposite direction to what we are told that the regulation of sedition has to go by the different European bodies and, of course, we are not going to support this proposal. But I think the most important thing is that when you think about what you're going to talk about, I feel challenged to answer him: Everything. They're gonna talk about everything and they have to talk about everything. This is the value of politics, being able to talk to someone who doesn't think the same thing, being able to confront ideas, and this is what they have to talk about, they have to talk about everything. Political conflicts can be solved like the 23F, entering here at gunpoint; they can be solved in their own way, putting people in jail, or they can be solved with dialogue, with the word, with the confrontation of democratic ideas. Our bet, no doubt, is this, the bet for dialogue, the bet for talking. Reality can't cover it. There are millions of people in Catalonia who do not feel challenged by the Spanish project, we believe that the best solution for Catalonia is to have a state of its own. The truth is, I know they get nervous when we say this about political conflict, when we say this about doing it again. Say it as you wish. The truth is that we have been obsessed with working on a political line to ensure that Catalonia can be a State, that Catalonia can be an independent State, that the citizens of Catalonia live better through institutions that represent them better. On the other side of this proposal, yours is only the repression: prison, the threat, the change of the Penal Code. In this context it is impossible to do politics. Therefore, pardons are political and we bet on politics, we bet on confrontation of ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u204	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u205	President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion questions the real reasons for granting pardons to members of the Government of Catalonia incarcerated. Well, it's about time someone explained why the government had to grant this conditional abolition of prison sentences, which are not pardons. First of all, by the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which validate that of the Supreme Court, a judgement issued by nine judges of twelve, of which three with an expired term, with a particular vote that recognizes what the whole of Europe already knows since the judgment of the High Court of Schleswig-Holstein. German magistrates pride all democrats in the world when they refused to extradite the legitimate president of Catalonia, the very honorable Carles Puigdemont. The particular vote of Judges Xiol and Balaguer of the Constitutional Court reproduces the doctrine of the German court and of other courts such as the Belgians, a doctrine which the European Court of Human Rights is going to assume in the appeals submitted, that is, that from the account by which they were imprisoned there is not a constitutive conduct of rebellion or sedition, but an exercise of rights, rights of freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration, and also that the Spanish courts make extensive and disproportionate application of these crimes. But what accelerated the pardons above all was the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 22 June, adopted despite the dirty pressures of the Spanish Government and of the Spanish nationalist parties, including PP, PSOE and VOX; a demolishing report against the Spanish and Turkish judiciary; a report which, in short, denounces a general case against the political dissent urged by the Spanish judiciary, which has led to the imprisonment of a democratic government and social leaders and which, as a result, demands the release of political leaders in prison, that the repression on the dissent in Catalonia be stopped and another varied list of issues, including the abandonment of extradition processes. In view of this scenario, on the same day that the PACE report was approved, the Spanish Government announced the pardons. Why would it be? Here is the answer to your question: the pardons are due to the need of the Spanish Government to save the face - let alone the face - of the Spanish judiciary. The Spanish Government, contrary to its repressive will and the democratic demands of the people of Catalonia, has been forced to give a kind of conditional suspension of an unjust and unjustifiable prison in the eyes of the world; an operation of damage control, no will to reunite. Don't let anyone cheat, we won't stop. Visca Catalunya free!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u206	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u207	The pardons do not resolve the conflict with Catalonia. The pardons are a gesture, a recognition that the penalties were unfair, as the Council of Europe said, but not a solution. We all know that the PSOE is forced. That is why we are also successful with the issue of pardons. The pardons, as I said, are not a solution as long as there are thousands and thousands of protesters and activists persecuted for claiming a democratic right, to which a law is applied that the most progressive government in history has been unable to repeal. They are not a solution as long as the Court of Auditors continues to pursue independent institutional positions and their/our families to bleed them, to bleed them, while in Spain they have been robbed for years and, far from returning the money, those who have stolen have been pardoned and no one here has ever said anything about these pardons. Pardons to prisoners and political prisoners are not a solution; they can be a gesture, but they do not solve the conflict at all. I am glad, of course, that I am glad that my sister and her companions are at home; I prefer them to be at home than in prison, of course, but this is not a solution. And there were no face-to-face solutions as long as my friend and partner, Squerra Republicana's secretary general, Marta Rovira, is in exile without being able to return home. [[applause]] , as long as the most honorable President Puigdemont also continues in exile, such as Councillor Lluís Puig, Councillor Clara Ponsatí or Councillor Toni Comín and Companion Anna Gabriel, among others. [[The lady]] The resolution of the conflict, therefore, does not pass through pardons, but through amnesty, to put an end to repression, and through negotiation, I repeat, by negotiation for the resolution of a problem that, as we know, is not judicial, is political, and requires a democratic solution that passes, as we have said thousands of times, to make policy. Those who criticize the table really believe that it is not important for an international community to look closely at our commitment to negotiation? Does anyone consider it unimportant that two governments feel they are negotiating around a table where amnesty and self-determination are going to be discussed for the first time? Repression will not put an end to independence, I repeat, repression will not put an end to independence. Precisely because independence is a democratic movement, they have only one way to prove that they can defeat us, and it is democratic. Put the ballot boxes on. Through the ballot box they cannot defeat democratically, if they wish, in a referendum of self-determination. And if you are not willing to accept democracy, the people of Catalonia are not willing to accept the authoritarianism of their State. Catalonia doesn't give up. Catalonia will never give up. The referendum or democracy. [[Rumors]] Pardon, or referendum or mass civil disobedience against the State. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u208	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u209	Repeat, or democracy or we'll do it again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u210	Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u211	Thank you, President. Today we again have a motion of smoke from the far right that only demonstrates two things: that you are useless to the interests of the citizenry and that the role that the most powerful have assigned you is to hinder the progress of this country. This country legislates on progress in the social field, such as the ERTE, the social shield to protect the most vulnerable, the approval of the minimum living income or the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage; there is the far right to vote against, because they block these progress. This country proposes advances in the recognition of sexual and gender diversity such as the LGTBI laws, which protect one of the most persecuted groups for hate crimes; you too stand against it. This country wants to protect the thousands of women threatened by machismo; you again do negationism, because it is your only project for the Spaniards. And, of course, in the search for a solution to the most important political conflict that Spain has had in recent years, you have already begun to work to block the solution, but I tell you that you are not going to achieve it. The pardons are the clearest and strongest expression that dialogue is the only possible way that we can recover territorial coexistence in this plurinational Spain and are a measure of the Government that no longer has to go back for as long as you manage. So, if you don't want broth, Mr Ortega Smith, here you have two cups, because, in addition to the pardons, today the dialogue table is launched in Catalonia, and this is excellent news for all Catalans, but also for all Spaniards who believe in dialogue as a solution. [[applause]] We are aware that you are only the political arm - and therefore probably the most harmless - of the enemies of dialogue. A leadership of the judiciary kidnapped by the People's Party to do political work, an obsolete monarchy that has become unusable in the eyes of the citizenry, and a media right that invents unscrupulous bubbles to energize the forces that believe in dialogue are its handlers and are already working to break any dialogue solution. But, listen, let no one be called to deception: of these enemies of dialogue, and the comrades of Esquerra Republicana know perfectly well, is also part of Junts per Catalunya. We have seen these days how their entire political strategy - and that is regrettable - is not put at the service of guaranteeing victories for Catalonia, but they put all their efforts into invigorating dialogue together with the Spanish right. You two understand each other perfectly well. They no longer lie, neither one nor the other, there is no alternative to dialogue, agreement and pact, no alternative. Whoever says he has an alternative, he just lies. There are no alternatives. Our obligation as democrats, Mr Ortega Smith, is to sit at a table to dialogue, even with those who do not share the same project, and find a solution, because that is what citizenship demands. Be honest, Mr. Ortega Smith, for once. You do not want this dialogue table because you know that you are going to lay the foundations there to discuss the multi-national future of Spain, something very necessary, which we have been delaying for a long time and which you do not want because you have no project for that debate beyond hatred and imposition. We have seen it this morning with the racist speech made by its leader, Abascal, in this House. I'm honest, I don't care about the screams or the gestures of the far right, because the more you scream and the more you gesture, the more this country is moving forward. It is over, Mr Ortega Smith, the time of the cry of histrionic gesture and the time of politics, of people with different ideas who sit at a table to reach an agreement. To those who do not serve for this new political time, it is only left to present strident motions such as the one you are presenting here this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that from 2 p.m., i.e. from now on, until 2.45 p.m. today, the general vote on the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure, the non-legislative proposals and the motions resulting from urgent appeals will be able to be voted on by telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u214	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u215	Thank you very much, Madam President. With her coming. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the time of politics is also the time of the law, do not forget it. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am sorry to tell you what you already know perfectly well: we have the worst government at the worst time for our country, which causes emotions like this, such as that already presented by the People's Group in its day, to tell the Government that pardon cannot be granted to those who have delinquent and have been convicted by the Supreme Court for crimes as serious as sedition or misappropriation of public revenues. But this government has little solution, and over and over again it does not respect the institutions or respect the Spanish. The change of face, Your Honor, no longer serves because it continues the main responsible, which is the president of the government, who was to be the leader of the social shield and has turned out to be the leader of anti-social policies. Today the receipt of light has marked another historical record at 188 euros the megawatt. And does that with a supposedly progressive government? No, no, This is a Government of retrogression, it is a Government that wants to circumvent the law, it is a Government that is subjecting our country to the most serious economic and social crisis that is remembered. Ladies and gentlemen, another week of the same with the Government: with scandals, with misconceptions, where the government of Pedro Sánchez starts politicizing alleged homophobic attacks that turned out to be false, because this government has forgotten that judicial investigations must be respected and that it must be prudent when things affect third parties. When it is at the head of a Government, it is necessary to be more responsible and not again and again to use lies as a political instrument. This is the government we have, ladies and gentlemen, which everyone knows perfectly well and which many more Spaniards know every day. It lacks political responsibility here, which is what there is for no place in the Government. No one's resigning here. As Mr Bal said, where was the government when last weekend in Barcelona, on the Via Laietana, attacked, attacked the headquarters of the National Police? How is it possible that no one from the government is going to reprove this, Your Honor? And it's not possible because they're making a deal, it's their government partners who pull out these radical movements. [[Applauds]] Here they are, ladies and gentlemen - let us make this reflection - the fruits of the pardons: more radicality. I was wondering where the government was with these attacks. Were you also thinking of pardoning those who attack the headquarters of the National Police on the Via Laietana, Your Honor? Because what is happening is the fruit of that feeling of impunity that you give with these absolutely unjust pardons. In this government no one resigns and no one faces for our police. We do, and we give it for our security forces and bodies, in Barcelona, Catalonia, for prosecutors, for judges who are applying the law, and as much as they push them will not come out and continue to apply the rule of law, which will come out victorious, despite the clumsiness of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the pardoned by the government gave our country an abject blow, it was a hard blow to our coexistence. Thousands of companies have left Catalonia, and it is shown that when there is radicalism and a weak government, when there is that way of governing it is created more unemployment, it is created more backward, it is created more gloomy; it is not dialogue, it is rupturism. That's what you're provoking. That's why these pardons have been embarrassing. And don't think, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that it is going to amortize; this is a broken bridge of this government with the citizens, where confidence has fallen into the void; this will be a recurrent and unhealed wound in the skin of the Socialist Party; this is one of the lies of Pedro Sánchez who has passed the hemerotheque, and will pass directly to the person of Pedro Sánchez and will accompany him wherever he goes. The Spaniards are not going to forget this betrayal. Ladies and gentlemen, every time an institutional seat in our country is surrounded and attacked, as was the Catalonian Economics Council in that fateful September 20, 2017, and every time criminal radicalism is believed to be fueled by the impunity granted to it by these pardons. But let them not fall into illusions, because justice will act upon them, and for that the People's Party will also be here. These pardons that are out of the law are neither moral nor legal, in our opinion, is a betrayal of the Spanish people made without any modesty, a betrayal of Pedro Sánchez, who said one thing and does the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that you cannot have a government submissive to those who insist on breaking the law, you cannot sell the unity and equality of the Spaniards for a handful of votes and to follow more in La Moncloa. And this government dedialogue table with its partners is a tearing sham, where the government is working out agreements with the parties that jail the CoRs that have just been prosecuted for terrorism. We will oppose with all force always from the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u216	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u217	Thank you, Madam President. I will read a very brief text: the National Court confirms the legality of the cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. Now what? Who of all those who have requested the resignation of Minister Marlaska is going to submit his resignation? Who's going to have the courage? [[Applauds]] We're done with one. Who will have the gallantness to take responsibility for having asked for resignations that justice proves that they did not have to be asked for? They've had the chance to go up to the rostrum and they've shut up cowardly. Gentlemen of VOX, the truth is that when I saw that the interpellation made her a fugitive from justice like Mr Ortega Smith-Molina I had the temptation to pay them with the same coin, but no, I'm not going to do it, I'm not going to call you thugs, nor scammers, nor sociopaths, nor criminals, I'm not going to repeat your primitive right-wing insults, stay with your hatred. You say in the interpellation that the current laws did not allow for pardons, but today you bring a proposal to amend those laws; be clear. If the current law does not allow them to be given, why do you propose to change it? But who do you want to fool? What they want is to return to the Franco regime, to the regime of hatred, revenge and repression; what they want is to change the de facto Constitution. As Voltaire said: the last degree of perversity is to make laws serve injustice. You do not want justice, you ask revenge to continue with the spiral of hatred, you seek to destroy, not build, you seek enemies, not compatriots, you seek power, not equality, you seek revenge, not agreement, you seek to divide, not unite. Gentlemen of VOX, they are the party of grudges, lies and insults, and with malice they claim to attribute the mistakes of capitalism to immigrants. The right wing wins by causing fear, and in that you are professionals. The left only wins by generating hope, because when one loses hope, one becomes a reactionary. Freedom is always the freedom of the other, gentlemen of VOX, and if freedom means anything, it is above all the right to tell people what they do not want to hear. A true liberal, gentlemen of the PP, is distinguished not so much by what he defends, but by the talent with which he defends it, the anti-dogmatic tolerance, the search for consensus - we have spent a thousand days with blocked justice - dialogue as a democratic essence; quite the opposite of Millán-Astray and the Baleares cruise. The law provides for pardons, does not include amnesty or self-determination. We defend compliance with the entire Constitution, not a part; we are not insufferable to the Constitution, such as Mr. Married, nor prejudices or privileges. All governments have pardoned. Where are your signatures against pardons, gentlemen of the People's Party? At the bottom of the Minor Sea? They make sure they have four hundred thousand signatures. They also say that there are eight hundred thousand affiliates. Let us go that, according to you, half of your members are in favor of pardons and are traitors. No wonder, voters are wiser than you are. Don't they realize that if they say the same thing as VOX, if they do the same thing as VOX, if they defend the same thing as VOX, if they attack the same ones as VOX and if they deal with VOX, their votes will end in VOX? Gentlemen of the PP, the problem is not what the Socialists do, the problem is what you did not do. It was the PP to whom an illegal referendum was held, the PP to whom the 9-N consultation was convened, the PP to which Puigdemont fled and it was Rajoy's nap that led us to the disaster. Don't you see that the 11 September independence demonstration was the lowest attendance in recent years? Less Participants and more fought. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, your typical frayed verborrhea of Francoism, your look at the past and not the future just reminds us that it is the salt statues of the corrupt Franco dictatorship. His irresponsible calls to the swords of Francoism have no echo in a democratic Spain. Gentlemen of the PP, move away from the paths trampled by VOX. Return to the path of dialogue and the Constitution, there we are waiting for the socialists. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u218	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate concludes the agenda of the plenary. The vote on the remaining items will take place once the vote has been resumed. The meeting was suspended until 15 a.m. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u219	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. We shall therefore begin the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u220	Firstly, direct and single reading of a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Overall vote, referred to in Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1 and which, in accordance with the second final provision, will require the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the House. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 113 plus 229 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 113 plus 179 telematics votes, 292; against, 50 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u221	The proposal to amend the Regulation was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u222	No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on violent attacks and acts of intolerance and discrimination against LGBTI people. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 113 plus 229 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 71 plus 120 telematics votes, 191; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 42 plus 58 telematics votes, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u223	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Development of the 7000 million Euros of Direct Aid to Save Our Productive Fabric. [[File number 162/000778]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u224	No law proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the release of €7 billion in direct aid to save our productive fabric. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 113 plus 229 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 42 plus 108 telematics votes, 150; against, 71 plus 103 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 18 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u225	The non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u226	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the solution that the Government will give to the situation of law fraud for abuse of the temporality of public employees, both in the Canary Islands and in the rest of the State. Voting by points. We voted on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 113 plus 224 telematics votes, 337; 27 telematics votes; 56 plus 64 telematics votes, 120; abstentions, 57 plus 133 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u227	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; 27 telematics votes, against 70 plus 86 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 43 plus 113 telematics votes, 156.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u228	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 71 telematics votes; against, 70 plus 84 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 43 plus 71 telematics votes, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u229	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 40 telematics votes; against, 57 plus 65 telematics votes, 122; abstentions, 56 plus 121 telematics votes, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u230	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 225 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 35 telematics votes; against, 71 plus 85 telematics votes, 156; abstentions, 42 plus 105 telematics votes, 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u231	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 41 telematics votes; against, 58 plus 65 telematics votes, 123; abstentions, 55 plus 120 telematics votes, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u232	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 40 telematics votes; against, 57 plus 65 telematics votes, 122; abstentions, 56 plus 121 telematics votes, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u233	It's rejected. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 226 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 23 telematics votes; against, 57 plus 65 telematics votes, 122; abstentions, 56 plus 138 telematics votes, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u234	Consequently, point 8 is rejected. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN WHY IT DEFENDS AGAINST INTERNATIONAL BODIES THAT THE LIVING POLICY MUST BE IN THE SERVICE OF THE INTERESTS OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT OF THE CITIZEN. [[File number 173/000089]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u235	Motion for urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to explain why the Government defends against international agencies that housing policy must be at the service of the interests of the Government and not of the citizen. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 229 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 42 plus 108 telematics votes, 150; against, 71 plus 91 telematics votes, 162; abstentions, 30 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u236	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE REAL REASONS FOR WHICH THE INDULTS ARE GRANTED TO THE SECOND SENTENCE OF THE SECOND ROOM OF THE SUPREME COURT WITHOUT COMPLETING THE LEGAL CASES FOR IT. [[File number 173/000090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u237	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the actual grounds on which pardons are granted to those convicted by the judgment of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court 459/2019 without resorting to legal cases for this purpose. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 113 plus 227 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 41 plus 105 telematics votes, 146; against, 72 plus 122 telematics votes, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-15-CD210915.u238	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting rose. It was three and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
