ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the first item on the agenda, corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 38/2020 of 29 December, adopting measures to adapt to the situation of third State of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, following the end of the transitional period provided for in the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community of 31 January 2020. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House today to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 38/2020, which provides for measures to adapt to the third state situation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, following the end of the transitional period provided for in the United Kingdom withdrawal agreement. The United Kingdom ceased to be a Member State of the European Union and became a third country on 31 January 2020. This followed the ratification of the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. The main objective of the agreement was to ensure an orderly withdrawal from the United Kingdom and to provide legal certainty to citizens, economic operators and administrations of the European Union and the United Kingdom. The agreement provided for a transitional period from its entry into force until 31 December 2020. The reason for this period was to provide a time frame for adaptation to the new situation. It also sought to provide a stability framework for the negotiation of an agreement on the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The negotiations on this agreement, as you well know, concluded on 24 December, reaching a compromise on a trade and cooperation agreement, first of all; a second agreement on information security, and a third agreement on civil nuclear cooperation. The three agreements have been provisionally applied since 1 January this year and are currently awaiting ratification by the European Parliament. The significance of these agreements and their relevance to the national interests of our country, the Government wanted to have the Chambers duly informed, and on 20 January it appeared before the Joint Commission for the European Union. During this year, the Government has promoted the necessary activity to ensure adequate preparation for the end of the transition period and the final withdrawal of the United Kingdom. A system of inter-ministerial coordination and coordination with territorial administrations was used for this purpose, through the Inter-Ministerial Commission for the Follow-up of the United Kingdom's Retreat of the European Union, and also through the Conference on European Union-Related Affairs. As a result of this activity, a comprehensive set of measures was adopted in three main areas: regulation, logistics and communication. Normative measures are now in our hands and are reflected in this Royal Decree-Law 38/2020 of 29 December. These are adaptation measures, within the competence of the State, essential to facilitate a transition to the new situation. Its objective is to counteract, to the extent possible, the undesirable effects of the end of the transitional period. It also seeks to safeguard the interests of citizens and economic operators who have exercised their rights under the freedoms conferred by the treaties. Most of these are temporary measures based on the principle of reciprocity. I would like to stress that several of these measures will also serve to provide an interim response to the practical problems posed by the UK's withdrawal with regard to Gibraltar. Professional and labour relations, health care and access to university, economic activities and airport services are its main substantive chapters. These are aspects that have required specific regulation in the context I have described to you earlier and to which I will refer below. First, this Decree contains a specific section for professions and public service, which regulates the rules applicable to the access and maintenance of the status of public employees of United Kingdom nationals in the service of Spanish public administrations. A number of situations relating to the exercise and access of professions for which recognition of professional qualifications has been obtained or wishes to be obtained are addressed, subject to the principle of reciprocity in most cases. It is envisaged that United Kingdom nationals who exercise a permanent profession, whose access and exercise is required to be a national of a Member State, may continue to exercise it without further formalities. This section also addresses the situation of UK nationals who have become public employees in Spain, providing for them to retain their status as civil servants. The section on labour relations regulates the transitional arrangements applicable to workers temporarily displaced in the context of the provision of services and the European Works Councils in undertakings or groups of undertakings of a Community dimension. With regard to the posting of workers, it is envisaged that workers displaced to Spain by a company established in the United Kingdom before 31 December may, as from 1 January 2021, remain in Spain and continue to provide their services without obtaining prior authorisation to reside and work, provided that the United Kingdom grants similar treatment to workers displaced in the United Kingdom by a company established in Spain. In addition, research and innovation activities are regulated, allowing UK nationals to carry out such activities in Spain by 31 December 2020 in the same manner as they have recognised them, provided that Spanish nationals are treated reciprocally by the competent British authorities. The Social Security Regulation contains the rules for determining the applicable legislation. This will allow Spain to continue to apply these same rules to persons subject to British Social Security legislation, provided that the United Kingdom acts reciprocally with respect to persons subject to Spanish Social Security legislation. As regards unemployment benefits, measures are provided for the purpose of enabling UK nationals to access unemployment benefits for the periods up to 31 December 2020 in any Member State of the European Union, provided that the last contributions have been made in Spain and the right to reside legally in Spain is maintained. It is also expected that European Union nationals will be able to access unemployment benefits for the periods listed in the United Kingdom before the end of the transitional period, provided that the last contributions have been made in Spain. On the other hand, specific measures have been included to preserve the unemployment benefits rights of citizens of the European Union residing in Spain who move daily to work in Gibraltar, i.e. for cross-border workers. Secondly, issues relating to the provision of health care and access to university. In the area of health care, there is a system based on two basic principles: continuity and reciprocity. It is established that Spain will continue to provide health care until 30 June 2021 on the same terms and conditions established before 1 January 2021, provided that the United Kingdom guarantees these same conditions to those persons who are entitled to receive health care from Spain, and provided that the expenses arising from their health care provided by the Spanish National Health System are reimbursed to Spain. As regards access to university, pupils from UK education systems are expected to continue to be able to take up the procedures for access to the Spanish university for courses 2021-2022, on the same terms as for pupils from EU education systems. The regulation that has been given to economic activities in this decree covers three sections: financial services, public procurement procedures and authorizations and licences. On the one hand, a framework is established to ensure the continuity of contracts for financial services provided in Spain by financial institutions established in the United Kingdom and signed before 1 January 2021. That is to strengthen legal certainty and the protection of customers and consumers, and also to avoid any risk of financial stability. The situation of UK economic operators with regard to public procurement procedures is also regulated. It is again a question of legal certainty and not to harm economic operators who participated in public procurement procedures initiated prior to the end of the transitional period. Thirdly, this economic section regulates the rules applicable to different authorisations and licences. Measures are envisaged for driving licences, import and export permits for defence equipment and dual-use products and technologies, arms transfer and waste transfer permits. Finally, this decree lays down the necessary provisions in the field of airport services. In particular, the current tariff regime for passengers bound for the United Kingdom has been extended until airport users and the infrastructure manager decide otherwise. If these provisions had not been introduced, the end of the transitional period would have meant an automatic change in the applicable tariffs, without such change having been the subject of consultation and agreement between the interested parties. The measure adopted aims to degrade the effect of this change and minimise its negative impact on the arrival of British passengers in Spain, on airlines and on transport users. This is, in summary, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the decree which the Government has deemed necessary to deal with an exceptional situation, as has been the definitive departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the loss of a Member State by the European Union is not the ideal situation we would have wished for, but it needs to be tackled with as much legal certainty as possible for our citizens and businesses. Both Europe and Spain must now build a new relationship with the United Kingdom, we are going to sail in this context in which the United Kingdom will remain a relevant partner and with which we will have close relations. And in order to ensure an orderly start of this phase respectful of our interests, it is for what the Government has taken all the necessary steps at the pace required by the circumstances, and for which it today called for the validation of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. More than four years ago - with the first announcement of the United Kingdom's intention to leave the European Union - a presentation was made in the General Courts to analyse the causes and effects of the Brexit. Here in Congress, Michel Barnier, the chief negotiator of the European Union, appeared on several occasions, who had us very much aware of the vicissitudes with his British counterparts who, as is known, put many obstacles, to the point that the trade agreement signed in extremis on 24 December did not leave time for MEPs to say no longer to vote, but to give their opinion. In Spain, it is very likely that this precipitation will also lead to difficulties in key issues for our immediate future. Here are the doubts that have been raised regarding the Gibraltar colony or the uncertainty posed by the delayed tijeretazo of fishing quotas, which in the case of the Cantabrian fleet - and specifically for Asturias - has worrying faces, or the uncertainties added to the new CAP to which agri-farmers are going to be subjected, and we have already seen as a precedent the calvary of our carriers, key in the food chain, after the entry into force of the agreement. Mrs Gonzalez Laya, the Government is confident that it will be vigilant so that there are no situations of unfair competition as to the regulations that the United Kingdom may decide on for its agriculture, fisheries and food in the future. With the vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law I ask you, on behalf of the Forum, to pay particular attention to these issues and also to all those concerning the rights of Spanish workers and the defence of the interests of our companies in the United Kingdom. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u6	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end there has been inextreme agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, but there has also been a break in trade flows by establishing procedures that we were not accustomed to. And these procedures involve more documentary and physical control of UK goods, and we have a very high trade with it, so I think it should stay beyond Brexit itself. But it is one thing to have a demand for controls and another very different not to avoid the obstacles in sectors dependent on exports and imports, which also have no alternatives to maintain the business. Measures, both material and human, must therefore be put in place to maintain the level of exchange and not be adversely affected by these new procedures. Customs and customs controls must respond to our own interests without prejudice to legality, but the goods cannot be paralysed at the border for days awaiting inspections and dispatches, as is happening with imports into many of the Spanish ports. In particular, in the port of Santander the controls of plant protection products of human consumption are clearly improveable, and I believe that this will happen in most of the Spanish ports. There have been semi-trailers with refrigerated goods waiting up to ten days, which is unacceptable; and if this is not corrected, carriers will look for other alternatives that will lead to an increase in our products. This royal decree establishes reasonable measures in relation to Brexit in many areas, such as public employment, professions, titles, labour relations, social security, but there is a need to correct many things. Some are already being corrected at the request of the administrations involved in the controls, but what is really a problem is the external health border inspection service, and if this is not corrected and in certain procedures no action is taken on resource issues, we will have a Brexit aggravated by our own inaction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Brexit is fundamental for the Canary Islands. Of the 14 million tourists that Canaries receives, 5 million are British; we have six international airports, we have two ports of general interest; 80% of Canaries' exports are to the UK and the traffic is direct. We will, of course, support the project, but we believe that it is very important, Madam Minister, that in the next few days a number of things be corrected and, above all, that it be started already because otherwise, in the month of October the Canary Islands will be blocked, which is also when our high tourist season begins, and they are concrete in two subjects. The decree specifies the creation of 54 places for the port theme. Canary Islands has two ports: Tenerife and Gran Canaria; we have vacancies in staff that even with the public offer of employment that was made, that has not started, do not cover neither the casualties that have been generated, and it is not only harbour police and personnel that depends on the port authorities, Canary Islands needs to increase the external health and phytosanitary control templates, which is fundamental, but is not foreseen. Secondly, in the area of customs, and thirdly, in the two ports of Guardia Civil, because otherwise, we will have a blockade of imports from the United Kingdom, which are fundamental in the Canary Islands. Second question, airports. We have six airports with direct flights coming from the United Kingdom, except for La Gomera and El Hierro all the others, and we have a deficit of almost 500 troops between national police and civilian guards. You have to start already being able to cover the vacancies, plus the new needs you have; you think one thing: of the ten largest airports in Spain, five are canaries; that of Gando, which is the number two or three in Spain, has the same number of civil guards as that of Alicante, which is the number 35, and that is that the national police will control the 5 million passengers, but the civil guards have to control the issue of luggage, but in Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, in Tenerife north, in Tenerife south and in Gran Canaria. I'm going to support the decree. We also have to discuss the future of Air Europe and Iberia, because it is essential for the Canary Islands. There are oligopoly problems, 85% of flights and connection with the Canary Islands, the contingency plan is not yet definitively approved and is 90% of connections with the Canary Islands. In any case, I do ask that the places that will be needed in October with the situation that we have had of zero tourism and supply and exports of the Canary Islands take it into account, and bring a decree for the creation of these places in the coming months. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u10	Good morning. Thank you, President. After an arduous period of negotiations finally reached the Brexit agreement, a negotiated pact for the exit of the United Kingdom from the Community, an exit, as the Minister has said, whose main consequence is a new and different relationship between the United Kingdom and the Community, a pact in which there were still secondary aspects, details to be concrete, and which are none other than the particular agreements that Britain must form with each country of the European Union, and here in the case of Spain, and in response to this context in which there was a regulatory vacuum, on 29 December the Royal Decree-Law 38/2020 was adopted, adopting measures to adapt to the situation of the third State of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, following the completion of the transitional period provided for in the previous Brexit agreement of 31 January 2020, and which is now being brought here for validation. A decree which, although most of the measures are post-brexit legislative adaptations, also reflects the extension of the inter-professional minimum wage which has little to do with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from Europe, an extension, moreover, adopted on the basis of the opening of a transitional period to allow the social partners to reach an agreement for the rise on this subject. A decree whose regulatory impact is broad and covers labour, health, social security and financial relations, and whose objective is to temporarily minimise in limited areas any of the negative effects of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, as well as to protect the interests of citizens and economic operators that may be affected as a result of the United Kingdom's move to be a third State for all purposes. It is therefore a question of providing security from the economic perspective, from the perspective of social and people's relations, of making transitional regulation because there are issues that need to be regulated also directly by the European Union or international treaties, and of trying to ensure that there is no legal vacuum and that there is no chaos. We are not going to talk about the specific aspects of the decree because you have already done so, Minister, only, within the general positions, highlight the object of the rule, its temporary nature because the measures are subject to a period of validity and, unless the Government extends, the date of completion is fixed, and, on the other hand, highlight the reciprocity mechanism on which the measures are based. That is to say, if, within two months, the British authorities do not grant reciprocal treatment to natural or legal persons who are Spanish nationals in the United Kingdom or Gibraltar, the latter would be terminated. The rules laid down in this decree are therefore reasonable, they cover many subjects and many areas, as we have said, and we will therefore support the validation of this decree, because the general rule laid down in this rule is nothing other than that of maintaining the rights born under the pre-brexit situation, that is, conditional, as I have said, on the United Kingdom maintaining them under that principle of reciprocity. Nothing more and thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 December, with the uncertainty of what could happen, you adopted a series of measures to reduce the negative impact of an exit from the United Kingdom and Gibraltar from the European Union. I have to tell you that the truth is that they did it in a very difficult, surreal context really, because it is surreal that because of some politicians, who were very irresponsible, and populism we have to see how the United Kingdom came out of the European Union, but that is democracy. This should make us think about the responsibility for our actions and the messages we send to the public. In any case, he said that in December, after the big agreement, the Christmas Eve Brexit agreement, and in the face of the doubt and the problems that were being faced with the small agreement, the bilateral agreement for the Gibraltar issue, you made a number of proposals, a decree that you now bring for validation. I understand they did it for two things. Firstly, in order to alleviate some of the vestiges of what was left unconcreted in the large agreement and, secondly, in order to give a way out of Gibraltar's mess because no concrete agreement had been reached. The truth is that the next day you came out saying that you had reached an agreement with the United Kingdom on the Gibraltar issue - I already told you in your appearance that, in my opinion, you sold the bear's skin before hunting it, because you still have to come to terms at the end - and I think you did it in a triumphalistic way. In any case, we will support this decree, as we believe it is a lesser evil. It is something that has to be done and a series of measures must be taken without delay because not doing so can greatly harm the interests of Spain and especially those of the people living in the Campo de Gibraltar. However, I want to make it very clear that there are two things we do not share. Firstly, the forms and, secondly, some substantive issues. I'm going to refer first to the forms. On the subject of Brexit in general everything is a matter of state and, as it is a matter of state, we have always demanded - and we will continue to demand it - that it should agree as much as possible with all political forces and that it should bring the issues to debate as much as possible in this House. Why? It is not only a matter of coming to inform or validate a decree, but also of agreeing and working with the rest of the political forces on the measures. Why? Because, even if your president doesn't believe it, you will go - one day you will go - and others will come - we don't know who - that you will have to continue negotiating issues of this kind on behalf of the whole Spanish state. We believe that the Brexit case is not a question of a political party, but of all the Spaniards. As far as the substance is concerned, we agree that the dilemma was fear or death. The dilemma was fear or death. You have made a number of regulatory adjustments to cope with the harmful consequences of Brexit, and we agree with that. We must give solutions, as you have said, to workers, to social security, to health coverage, to the validation of securities or to security for financial services urgently - which you do not understand is that you have no understanding - but all these solutions are subject to a deadline and a condition and it is that the United Kingdom has to comply. This is where we put a but, because in the decree they present there is not a single measure to enforce these agreements and above all there is no plan B in case these agreements in some way are not fulfilled. I say this because I have already recorded a parliamentary question about the problems we are having with the coverage of British residents in the Valencian Community on the subject of insurance. What are we gonna do? They're fringes that have to be solved. This is a short-term patch. What happens when this happens? Are you already working, as other spokespersons have told you, with the rest of the political forces to solve the problems? There is a very important question. You raise some rules here that I agree with 100 percent, such as, for example, on the subject of university degrees, but what is going to happen to your cabinet companions? Because there are laws that have been enacted, such as Lomloe, that contradict this measure. You will have to speak with your entire cabinet and explain to some ministers that the issue of internationalisation is yours and that, please, they do not get involved in matters that may harm us. I'm on my way. With regard to Gibraltar, you have presented - I have already told you - a holistic agreement, and that is not the case because there are still very important issues that we will have to discuss. There are some issues that concern us, and I will mention one. There is still a lot of legal uncertainty about an issue that has to do with something that is being discussed later, and that is how the cohesion funds are going to be conceived and put into practice. We malice that something similar will happen to what can happen to the restructuring fund... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u14	...and we're gonna be very vigilant. We want transparency, we want it to be with us, we want all institutions to be involved and we want, above all, that the workers and Campo De Gibraltar have the mechanisms to be able to have prosperity. We are going to vote yes, but we are going to be very vigilant so that all the issues I have put to you come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u16	Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm gonna go over some dates. A referendum was held in the United Kingdom on 23 June 2016, the result of which was to cease being a Member State of the European Union. It was a free and democratic decision, taken by the majority of the State's citizens and therefore legitimate. We may or may not agree with her, but that's what happened. In the United Kingdom, referendums are allowed and the status quo, which may have existed for more or less years, is allowed to vote and change, and there is no problem. I therefore hope that the second referendum on self-determination and independence in Scotland will soon be held. I will give you other dates: on 29 March 2017 the United Kingdom officially announced that it wanted to cease being a Member State; on 31 January 2020 it ceased to be a Member State, and on 1 February 2020, the withdrawal agreement, in force until 31 December 2020, entered into force. Why do I review them? Because the Spanish Government has had more than four years to prepare without an extraordinary and urgent need. He could have prepared quietly, rather than end up doing it with a royal decree-law. It is true that we were all awaiting negotiations, withdrawal agreements and agreements on future relations with the European Union, as you said, Minister. You have also said that Spain has acted - I repeat - at the pace required by the circumstances, and that is true. But as long as these circumstances were happening, Spain could have prepared itself, as the European Union did, by adopting contingency regulations, or the European Commission, by adopting multiple communications urging citizens, businesses and States to prepare themselves in accordance with their responsibilities. You, the Government, had much more information than we had about the state of the negotiations, led by Michel Barnier, and about the areas of competition that could be agreed in the withdrawal agreement and the agreement on future relations. They could therefore have prepared themselves in time and provided for different scenarios, different rules or different possibilities. Instead, as has been said, they have adopted, in extremis, six days earlier, a royal decree-law, which today bring us for validation. I repeat that, with this background, they could have acted before, without rushing to the limit. And they had it easy, because they had the Royal Decree-Law 5/2019, of Contingency Measures, which was approved and published, but which never came into force; that they did not approve it with the right time, but a month before the withdrawal, without the planned extensions. Therefore, there were two royal decrees, 5/2019 and 38/2020, which now present us and which is, more or less, an update of what they already had; so it seems to me, they have eliminated the parties that have remained in the agreements of future relations. Therefore, if they had a royal decree, if the work was already done, we do not understand why they took so long. Moreover, if this royal decree-law that you present to us has four articles that say they are adopted, they are in the royal decree-law, but they will not apply unless they are contained in the agreement of future relations, why have they not followed these two models and have not brought us this document long before? They could have followed these models and could have legislated without so much urgency at the last moment, as they already did - I already mentioned it in their previous appearance, but we do not understand each other - with that treaty on participation in electoral processes, which is adopted, which does apply, but which has outdated clauses. In response to a question we put to you, we were told that you would arrange those outdated parts, with an exchange of notes, as soon as possible. I repeat the question I asked you in writing last week: when will it be 'as soon as possible' to fix an outdated treaty? In another matter - you did not mention it, but some other parliamentary group did - can you explain to me and explain why the first final provision and the sixth additional provision are included? The sixth additional provision - they have already commented - is the interprofessional minimum wage, and the first final provision implies an amendment to the Air Navigation Act and does not affect, at all, the United Kingdom, according to what the royal decree-law that they are going to amend tells us. Therefore, if this is a real decree-law to adapt to the UK's exit situation, in my opinion, these two provisions here would not have to be. We believe that this is not a good example of a legislative technique. I now raise three specific points of the agreement which do refer to the content of the title. The first refers to the new squares, which have already been mentioned. In the port authorities, in the Royal Decree-Law of 5/2019, there were 50, but now there are 56. We'd like to explain how they calculated this number, because it seems random to us. Article 10.3 speaks of the forecast for frontier workers in Gibraltar, and tells us that it will be maintained until 31 December 2022. If there is finally agreement on Gibraltar, will this article be maintained or modified? With regard to Article 12, why is the same treatment given to pupils from the United Kingdom education system as that of the Member States of the European Union for the course 20212022? I ask you this question because in other provisions of the Royal Decree-Law we are talking about the principle of reciprocity, but in this case, in particular, it does not, which has surprised us. We will vote for responsibility, for legal certainty with citizens and for economic actors, but of course not for the procedure followed, which we do not think is the most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u18	Thank you, President. Minister, the truth is that, reviewing the neoliberal, xenophobic and populist positions defended by the Boris Johnson government before and after the Brexit, it is better that we have this agreement, that we have no agreement or that we have the agreement that the British right intended. On the other hand, if you think of the people who are going through the worst with this crisis, the poor workers, the nurses, the doctors or the cleaning workers, my opinion is that it is insufficient. Once the Brexit is already a reality, I believe that the main task we have to ask ourselves is to refuse to assume the new normality of inequality and poverty that are rampant. It is true that Europe reacted at first by adopting unprecedented measures, the centralised purchase of vaccines, recovery funds, direct debt issuance by the European Commission, but it must be acknowledged that many of these measures will be diluted if we are not able to regulate markets and put some kind of limit on the obscene concentration of wealth that is occurring during the pandemic. Think about the decision to buy vaccines centrally. This was a political success, but the next day we gave in to the neoliberal geopolitics of vaccines and we already had AstraZeneca and other great pharmaceuticals failing to meet the commitments made, waiting for us to face: This is the capitalist market, idiots. Now, we have a situation of widespread indignation and Sweden is saying that it will not pay until what is happening is clear. However, I still think that the underlying issue here is, how many citizens' initiatives at European level are being called for, that once and for all vaccines and medical treatments are declared global public goods and not objects of speculation. We've seen it now with the big pharmaceuticals and we saw it a few days ago with the electrics, and we're going to keep insisting on this. There are strategic sectors of the economy, energy, research and banking where what we need are democratically controlled, transparent but public public enterprises, geared to the general interest and not to the speculative voracity of a few multinationals. It is very good that this agreement with the United Kingdom helps to slow down the social and environmental race, but the only thing that will prevent such unfair competition between the territories is to recognize that social rights and fiscal escalation are the true identity of Europe at the moment, and that cannot be simply rhetorical. A social Europe cannot tell poor workers that it is going to freeze the interprofessional minimum wage, it has to improve it; it cannot resign itself to the fact that the majority of pensions in Spain are less than EUR 1000, it has to improve them. We need young people who have decent jobs to finance decent pensions, and that is only achieved by enabling workers to be strengthened in their collective bargaining capacity in the face of violence from the private sector. A social Europe cannot ask families to confine themselves, if it does not protect them from the abuses of renting out large forks or large bankers. A Europe that wants to be social cannot be content with the recovery funds that we now have, which were a success for the countries of southern Europe but which are going to be totally inadequate in the context of economic recession. We need more robust funds after the Brexit, not to add to the benefits of Iberdrola, Endesa, Agbar, large companies, but to support small and medium-sized enterprises, small agro-ecological producers and SMEs. We need the stability pact not simply to be suspended. The stability pact has become obsolete, and the monetarist and neoliberal philosophy that comes from Maastricht must be reviewed urgently. We need the European Central Bank to be able to act as the United States Federal Reserve, which with Biden has already devoted 7% of its gross domestic product to promoting decent employment and combating poverty. We need to listen to the European Parliament after the Brexit and fight for a common European taxation, really fight against tax havens, pursue the great tax fraud coming from whoever comes, come from the emeritus kings or come from Mr Jeff Bezos and the big billionaires and, above all, we need to ensure that tax disloyalty, the separatism of the rich that so much likes Mrs Ayuso, is definitively declared an illegal practice in Europe. A few weeks ago a VOX MEP was heard - of those who like to bark with the progress of consensus - who staged ultra-genuflexion in front of Trump, praising Trump before he left. And not only did they praise him for the armed assault on the Capitol, for the nuclear rearmament he has driven around the world, he not only asked for more military bases patriotically in Spanish territory, but he also defended him for promoting large tax cuts to the rich, for weakening labour regulations and for weakening environmental regulations. This can be coherent - in this the far-right practice a genuflexion without borders - but it is not what a really modern and advanced Europe needs. If we want a green social Europe after the Brexit, we have to do things like what Germany did in 2020, which got renewables to produce more electricity than all fossils together, which got solar energy to produce more than all coal together. That is to have, in fact, an advanced Europe. In my opinion, if we want to avoid new Brexit, we cannot just praise the status quo. Today it is more urgent than ever to build a democratic and republican Europe, a European public network free not only of state monarchs but also of what Franklin Delano Roosevelt called the great market monarchs, and that, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me not to come from the European elites. This Europe will only be possible if the ordinary people, the peoples of Europe, decide to fight in solidarity to achieve it, without letting any exploited and zascandil young man try to divide them by the origin or color of the skin. That's happening in some places. Here we have the example of the riders, who are organizing themselves to stop the abuses of despotic platform capitalism; here we have the case of the unions, who rebelled against the abuses of Amazon in December. The progressive forces, the republican forces, we need to accompany those battles and strengthen their rights. Why? Because our Europeanism is simply a step towards building popular internationalism. That is why we have to accompany these battles for the law, because, as the Portuguese poet Sophia de Mello said, there is also a rumor of forest in these small gardens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-An employee of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u20	With all due respect, Madam President. Madam Minister, I cannot thank you for having read in your speech the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law, we all assumed that you were able to read; to agree internationally, we do not assume, we already know that you do not know at all, probably because of your natural incompetence and because the government to which you belong does not know how to exercise, as a sovereign power that is - at this time a net contributor of the European Union - in the relations that Spain maintains with the European Union and, since the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, with the United Kingdom in the bilateral sphere, without prejudice to the competences that are exclusive of the European Union. This royal decree-law, the object of which you have set out, is going to deserve our vote in favour, first of all, for a general policy reason or for a matter of a general political stance on the European Union. Contrary to what is said, VOX is not an anti-European Union party, but VOX is contrary to the abuses and deviations of the European Union and, above all, to certain tendencies that stifle the sovereignty of the Member States. We do not, of course, share the criticisms made by the European Union of the referendum on the Brexit held in the United Kingdom and, therefore, the criticisms of the British people and British sovereignty. We do not know on what basis or democratic legitimacy those criticisms were made. On the contrary, they were criticisms very contrary to an elementary democratic principle, which can never ignore the sovereignty of the people, in this case, expressed in a referendum. This royal decree in summary regulates some issues for the post-brexit hypothesis, mainly without agreement, of a new trade relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which is a hypothesis that is not going to be verified, because that agreement has already been concluded and is simply now subject to the parliamentary authorisation of the European Parliament, not so of the British Parliament, which has already approved it. It is done on the following bases. Firstly, there are matters whose regulation has a purely temporary scope, precisely subject to an agreement for the post-brexit relationship, which, as I say, has already been concluded and will enter into force. Therefore, this temporary vocation is confirmed and these subjects, which are essentially those regulated in Articles 4, 9, 11 and 14(2), will have no effect. Then there are other subjects that are alien to this temporal limitation, that is, that have a definitive vocation, but that as a principle the royal decree conditions the reciprocity of practice and regulation by the United Kingdom, which seems reasonable and sensible to us. There are exceptions to this and I could mention them in detail one by one, although I do not think it is worth it. They are exceptions to matters which are definitively regulated by the Royal Decree and which are not subject in their application to the verification or enforcement of reciprocity, as appears to be required by the United Kingdom. None of them seem serious enough to determine our vote against. There are also some regulations - as I have already said from this rostrum - which are truly extravagant in the field of brexit, such as the interim extension of the interprofessional minimum wage or amendments to laws such as that of air navigation. Anyway, they're really amazing things, but, well, this is a very widespread practice. So far my comments on this decree-law and the reasons why we are going to support it. However, Minister, this is not the most important politically and legally; here the most important and what really determines that our opposition to this Government is also strong in this area is the principle of agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom on Gibraltar. This principle of agreement shows that Spain has not been able to exercise its rights within the European Union, because the new trade relationship agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union was subject to unanimity. Spain could therefore have negotiated more firmly and demanded a bilateral agreement on Gibraltar, and not necessarily reflected in an agreement to be concluded between the United Kingdom and the European Union, but has not done so, which is a position of serious weakness. The principle of agreement we are aware of is a principle of agreement which only favours Gibraltar and the United Kingdom. We are not surprised that the other day in your appearance at the Joint Committee of the European Union you expressly thanked Picardo, probably because he wrote the agreement. There's no other explanation. We cannot consider the Government to be so incompetent as not to be able to negotiate, so that the content of the negotiated will only benefit Gibraltar. This is inconceivable. It is clear that in the negotiation with the United Kingdom for the purpose of establishing the new trade relationship, the European Union has agreed to a United Kingdom requirement, which has been the subject of a separate agreement, but whose content was on the part of the United Kingdom to request the European Union to impose on Spain politically the agreement on Gibraltar that the United Kingdom wanted. That is, this principle of agreement is what is called a legal business imposed on an unacceptable negotiation for Spanish interests. [[Applauds]] I'm done. This comes to a ridiculous extreme, to a paradox that, in addition to paradox, is counterproductive for Spanish interests, which is the following. While the United Kingdom was a party and a member State of the European Union, Gibraltar had not been part of the customs union since the 1973 Act of Accession. With this agreement it will form part of the customs union, which is an unusual thing. There is no territory in this situation. Secondly, while the United Kingdom was in the European Union, Gibraltar was not part of the Schengen area. On the basis of this principle of agreement, and if a pact is truly concluded in these terms, Gibraltar will become part of the Schengen area, which means relaxation of border control...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u21	Mr. Sanchez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u22	I'll conclude, if you'll just give me a moment. Thank you. ... this implies the relaxation of a policy of a hard gate, which should determine Spain's position and put an end to this situation which is detrimental to national interests and national unity, and to the situation of economic prostration in the region of the Campo de Gibraltar. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a month since the United Kingdom left the European Union, and Brexit, Minister, has left us three lessons that I think it is very important to remember, especially after what has been heard here this morning, to avoid repeating, and that is what is called lessons learned: the first is that the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union is a mistake, a huge mistake; the second is that the negotiation of European interests by the European Union has been a success, and the third is that the negotiation of Spanish interests by the Spanish Government has been a failure. The first is that the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union is a mistake prompted by a populist and demagogic movement that forced the frustration of citizens to force an artificial debate, mask reality and hide the negative consequences of a divorce that was to be traumatic, capricious and tremendously expensive. The main consequence of this fictitious debate was the division of the United Kingdom into almost equal halves. Dividing society to gain power is often the main goal of all populisms: exploiting fictitious differences, creating incompatibilities, confronting those in the city against those in the countryside, young people against the elderly, women against men, the poor against the rich or atheists against believers; creating unbreakable borders and barriers that curtail freedom and gradually deepen the capacity of a society to face together the common good. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about Spain, although I might as well. This, Mrs Illamola, is what happened in the United Kingdom following the convening of a referendum which, far from solving a problem, created it. That is to say, Brexit is indeed the result of a decision taken by the British in the free exercise of their sovereignty and freedom and, therefore, it is a totally legitimate decision, but that does not mean that, at least in the opinion of this parliamentary group, it is a huge mistake for both the European Union and the United Kingdom, an error that reaches the category of trauma, at least for those for whom we believe that Atlantis is good and that the United Kingdom has done better for the European Union and also for Europeans. It is a mistake that has consequences for Spain, because, despite the historical or territorial contentious that we have maintained with Britain since 1713 regarding Gibraltar, we had been able to strengthen our commercial, cultural, social and historical ties of two countries that respect and appreciate each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the second lesson that Brexit gives us is that the European Union has negotiated its interests well, forcefully, persistently, consistently, firmly in its principles and consciously, well aware of the exemplary nature of its task. The negotiating team defended from the beginning, from the first day of the extraordinary council of November 2018, in front of the closing of the other party, incorporating them into that exit agreement, the priorities of almost all the countries-almost all those who knew how to negotiate it, of course - and it ended and ended this Good Night with those three agreements signed. The negotiating team and the European institutions have been able to rise to the challenge and historic moment. Both Michel Barnier and Ursula von der Leyen can be proud of their work. It may not be a coincidence, Madam Minister, that both are from the European popular family, from the European family of the People's Party, and that is why we at least want to give them and their teams our most sincere thanks for persevering in the task. And here comes, ladies and gentlemen, the third and sad lesson, which has to do with the shadows of the unfulfilled mandates, and, unfortunately, it is up to us here to talk about our Government, about a president who is conducting a given and absent negotiation. His neglect of defending interests began on the same night as the November 2018 exit agreement, when he left aside that lucidity that he has us used to on some occasions, especially when it comes to placing medals, and decided to apply a curious method of negotiation that he himself called active silence - it must be recognized that in some things he has a lot of creativity -. This in paladin roman is called silence, a silence very similar to when asked about the actual number of dead, the poor management of the pandemic, the friends accompanying him in the Falcon or some other things he does not like to be held accountable for. That is, while the rest of the Heads of State and Government were discussing and negotiating the interests, Sánchez looked forward to the result of what others were working on, as if Spain had nothing to say, nothing to defend and conform with what others decided and earned. Neither cattlemen nor fishermen nor students nor tourists nor truckers deserved his word or effort. What is worse, satisfied with the result, did the same with the negotiation of European funds. He made sweat, battle, and dedication put it on others, and then he arranged for the applause hall to have a good celebration. Ladies and gentlemen, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union was a key moment for Spain, a key moment with regard to Gibraltar. It represented an opportunity to move forward in a historic negotiation of a sovereignty over the Peñón that we have been demanding for over three hundred years. The government of the People's Party had left the bull in luck to finish the work, and yet to the laziness of the president we joined the lack of ambition and it all ended in a simple note on the sidelines of an agreement that only benefits those who work it, and I am sorry to say that Spain has not worked it. In this way, seeing what we saw and what we saw last week also at the appearance, one, unfortunately - and I say this, truly, with much more sadness than joy - thinks that perhaps it would have been better if Michel Barnier had negotiated Spanish sovereignty over Gibraltar, because perhaps we had obtained something else. And it's sad to have to tell you this. [[Applauds]] The agreement presented to us today is a procedure that provides us with a temporary, appropriate and timely legislative framework to alleviate the negative consequences of the UK's departure while the future relationship agreements are ratified. This agreement benefits the thousands of British who reside in Spain and, on just reciprocity, the thousands of Spaniards who reside in Britain. It is a relevant agreement, which solves practical problems in this interim, and, for this reason, urgency, we will not support that it is treated as a bill, but we will support the actual decree. Students, workers and drivers need it now. Therefore, Your Honor, thank you very much for this. But we will not ask for it to be treated as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. After what we've just heard, it looks like we got a 5 to 0 score, but no. I would start by saying that the alternative facts are not good advisors, because it seems that it was yesterday - I think it is worth knowing why we validated this Royal Decree 38/2020 today - four and a half years ago - as has been said - when we were talking about a galloping populism, with slogans proclaiming that it was time to take control, when the United Kingdom, in fact, took a historic wheel, which ended up leaving out of the customs union and the largest single market on the planet to that country and also, of course, outside of an area of freedom, progress and democracy never before known in modern history. Moreover, in recent months, as the final divorce was being negotiated, with a hard Brexit on the horizon as a measure of pressure, the European Union has faced a challenge so far unknown, the pandemic, and could have fallen into discouragement, fund-raiser or the disunity of the exit labyrinth proposed by the United Kingdom, and none of that has happened. Europe has continued to make progress, with the concrete achievements that Schuman has proclaimed, uniting us in solidarity against the virus, getting the United Kingdom to leave the Union by signing an agreed agreement, and therefore from the double challenge of the Brexit and the pandemic the Union has come out more social and more united. By the way, in this bipolar world, technologically and politically polarized by the United States and China, Europe has shown its ability to be a powerful Europe, with leadership and capable of a global response to global crises, and there are the alternative facts that were previously said, and Spain, this Government, its President, you minister and all your team have been in the leading group of this Europe, more united and more supportive in these very complex months, and, by the way, also in the pre-agreement that there has been for Gibraltar. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in this - and not in another one that comes to this House today - Royal Decree-Law 38/2020, adapting to this new framework, after four years of political tsunami, as has been said, in which the final negotiations that have led to the agreement for the future relationship following the withdrawal agreement have been framed; negotiations under the permanent threat of a hard Brexit during the last few months, which in the end has been concluded with an in extremis agreement. And this is worth remembering because we have to make the most of what has been achieved - you said it last week in the Commission - because without agreement we had a safe reduction in European GDP, a reduction in our exports, a less hopeful future for the car or for the agri-food sector and, of course, if there had not been an agreement, a complex time for the tourism sector or for the fisheries sector. Therefore, with the future relationship agreement we have avoided many of these harmful effects, although it is true that in the day to day the relationship for the citizens will change. It is still difficult to know how Brexit will evolve, but what is clear is that there is a before and after in European construction and integration. And we also know that what began as a feeling has ended - and you have said so - with a cooperation and trade agreement that is similar to that with Canada or Japan, which is said soon, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that is something we must start to become aware of. Along the way, the customs union, the single market and something that the British have contributed a great deal: changes in the free movement of people, changes in border controls, limits on stays and the right to settle, and we begin to see what these new rules entail in trade, as one of the speakers before me said. It is important to start again, as the film says, reconfiguring the relationship of member countries. I believe that this is a new beginning, and I believe that it was seen on 29 December at the Union level, as at the level of Spain, with the decision of the Council of the European Union on the signing of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the Member States and the United Kingdom, and on the same day the Royal Decree-Law 38/2020, independent but complementary decisions. And, in relation to the decree, I believe that what is clear is that the aim is to adapt at national level as quickly as possible to that new time, which is fundamental for our country because of the strong ties with the United Kingdom, which you have pointed out, both in economic interdependence and with regard to the number of Spanish citizens living in the United Kingdom and vice versa, as well as for our businesses and economic operators, who have to compete with new rules of the game, and from the financial sector to the agri-food sector, or for citizens, who will see how freedom of movement and residence, among other things, changes. It is therefore a temporary adaptation, based on the principle of reciprocity, as has already been said, and which carries the signature and joint work of each and every ministry to protect the interests of citizens and economic operators. This decree governs the exercise of the profession, in relation to displaced workers, in relation to research and innovation activities, in relation to social security rules, access to unemployment benefits, access to university, health care, financial services, public procurement or airport services, among other aspects. It is a decree, in short, on a temporary basis to start walking on this path that has imposed the Brexit on us. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end without quoting a Europeanist and socialist like Manuel Marín, who is sure that he would ask us today for more effort for an even more supportive response to this Europe and, of course, more work to continue to make way for the integration and construction of a powerful Europe, with greater strategic autonomy and more united in the face of the challenges ahead. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 36/2020 OF 30 DECEMBER, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE MODERNIZATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOVERY, TRANSFORMATION AND RESILENCE PLAN. [[File number130/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u28	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December, approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I compare it on behalf of the Government, since Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December covers various areas and competences other than various ministerial portfolios, in order to explain to your lordships and ask them to validate a rule that approves urgent measures for the modernization of our public administrations and to be able to execute and realize the funds that in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan signify an extraordinary hope for our country. I am not going to abound much, ladies and gentlemen, about what it has meant to appear in our lives and on the whole planet of a deadly disease, of a health crisis brought by an unknown virus and of a titanic struggle to protect societies that feel fragile, insecure and need the maximum protection of all, of the institutions, of the most perfect combination of work possible in their public and private sectors and, of course, of the exercise of responsibility by the whole State. This is a health crisis, a social crisis and, unfortunately, also a major contraction of the economy around the world, which, of course, affects Europe and our country. The first intensive, urgent responses have been of a health nature, although, together with them, from the very beginning, the Government but also the rest of our country's administrations are trying to take parallel measures to protect the social and economic fabric and that they will seek for once in our country in the face of a critical situation that our economy did not come down to hell, so that it can be traced back as soon as possible. We have put at the disposal of this protection EUR 200 billion, about 20% of our GDP; we have covered by the ERTE figure almost 3.5 million workers in our country to protect employment; we have articulated for the first time a formula of protection by way of extraordinary benefit to self-employed workers, which has covered, also in our history, almost one and a half million self-employed workers, that is, we have tried to do something that was not in the record of work in the face of the crises in our country: to attend to the important, to public health, to the health of each of us and, at the same time, to the protection of employment and the economy. As we all know - it is not worth much in this - it is an absolutely global situation, which also affects the whole of the European Union and which has also had a truly extraordinary response from the European Union itself. Common institutions have lived up to the challenge we faced and continue to face, and in that thesis, also for the first time, answers that we did not know were speeding up. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has meant that the changes that societies themselves had already implemented in a natural way - I am referring to the progress of the digitisation of our societies, I am referring to the truly disturbing challenges of the sustainability of our planet, of all the necessary evolution of protective measures in terms of climate change - have also been exacerbated and that all this leads to imbalances in the most important principle of the functioning of any democratic state, which is equality, the fight against exclusion and solidarity and just work on all the measures that in a crisis have to intensify with constitutional values, because no one can stay out of the protection that the State must provide. On 30 July the leaders of the European Union, as we know, agreed on a recovery plan for the whole of Europe, with a package of measures never seen and which took place in a multiannual financial framework, from 2021 to 2027, and also the launch of the European recovery instrument, worth EUR 75 billion, which means a united and solidarity-covering response from Europe. It is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to tell them that not only was the critical situation being addressed, but also that Europe itself was being strengthened at an important time in the context. On 18 December last year the Council itself and Parliament reached an agreement on this Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which, with EUR 672 billion, is the instrumental framework in which the whole of Europe is going to move, also our country. It was the answer, only resources, and there was a third important element, of an instrumental nature, that was to adapt the internal work of our public administrations in order to be able to promote rapid, effective implementation and to achieve the protective objectives that we all need. Articulating this plan and having a quick presentation in the community institutions also needs the changes in the administrative field that this royal decree-law brings urgently, rigorously with our demanding constitutional standards and, of course, with the guarantees proper to the rule of law that we are, meeting each and every one of the requirements of article 86 of our Constitution. Without a doubt, we are faced with the biggest management challenge that Spain has ever had, which we must also turn into an extraordinary door to the future, to the advancement and modernization of our country, the responsibility of all because it affects the public sector but also the private sector and affects all institutions, ideologically plural in a legitimate way, as the electorate of our country wants. The objectives of this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, are: to comply with the European Union in order to be able to have the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the establishment of special measures to speed up administrative management, which we need more than ever, and, thirdly, the incorporation of the general guidelines and measures which the European Union itself will equip us with for the agility of all Member States, also for our own. It is about having the necessary tools. If the first attempt was to convince the European Union of this unprecedented response formula, it is now a question of equipping our country to be in the right condition to make it a reality. This is the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, which we all have ahead of us, to ensure that, by means of the mechanisms contained in the Royal Decree-Law, the funds we are going to dispose of are effectively and fully subject to the law. Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law puts in place mechanisms that bring together different efforts of different public administrations, so that all this can be done also in a framework of important and unprecedented power of public and private collaboration. This royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, has 69 articles, in twelve chapters, which are grouped into four titles, which I will point out to you. The first title, general provisions, is in which we aim to effectively implement the projects assigned to the recovery plan and the objectives to be addressed by each and every one of the different plans that our country is going to have, for the work that we are going to be dealing with, as your ladies and gentlemen can imagine, a long time: to promote innovative mechanisms, with multidisciplinary teams that can have technical and horizontal approaches and be comprehensive of the complex territorial structure of our State, so that, in all this, the diversity of ideological perspective is protected in relation to the composition of each of the local, autonomous and national governments, as the electorate wants, the citizenship of our country; to have resources that allow us to promote with new technologies the work that we are facing, a great challenge, making our way forward, so that we already have an important imprint on the use of digitization to face this great challenge, and to have capacities in the administrations that allow us to evaluate the evaluation and conclusion work at every moment about how we are going, how we are going, including, as it is logical, where we are going to correct the progress. In Title II of this royal decree we face measures of general scope. With these measures, which are to be governed, as it cannot otherwise be, by Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, we want to make possible some transformations, such as, for example, the early processing of records of conventions to be carried out in the following year or later. It is about helping in an important way to have a temporary phase and sequence of work which, as you know, is planned until the framework of 2026 and which we need to have sufficient scope and planning. Also the possibility of receiving advances for all preparatory operations which are absolutely necessary for actions financed from public resources, up to the limit of even 50%. It is a matter of working with the public and private sectors in a very efficient and secure way, but also in a way that stimulates the work of our business sector, so that the one that exists, the one that comes and that we need to incorporate in a novel way have a guarantee of starting its course. And we have extended the maximum duration of administrative agreements to adapt them also to the temporary needs of this plan. In Title III we address the management instruments of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, what we call the structures of governance and co-governance - our Title VIII continually obliges us to the development of our single State, of territorial diversity - in order to be able to unify efforts as well. There will be a specific committee for recovery, transformation and resilience, which is newly created, and a technical committee dealing with the plan, aid, as a body of assistance and continuous support for the work of this committee. This commission will be chaired by the President of the Government and will be part of it by all ministries. It will also support the authority responsible for the mechanism of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and will reside in the Ministry of Finance, which is the central development, implementation and overall body of the plan. At other levels of work and assistance from the committee and the technical committee that I have just identified, there will also be follow-up work in these two areas. First of all, with the possibility of creating forums for the participation of high-level groups linked to the commission and which continuously permeate the fundamental technical opinions of the pleyade of men and women experts in each of the areas that our country has in what we call civil society. The constitution of a forum for social participation in relation to the development of the plan is also intended to constantly influence and permeate the monitoring and radically participatory opinion of citizens about how we are progressing in a great transformation of our country that the misfortune of the pandemic, on this side with a less sad face, brings us as possibilities of hope and future. The status of responsible authority of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism will also lie with the management centre of the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the supervisory authority of the Recovery Plan is attributed in this rule, as it could not otherwise be, in a way particularly desired by the Government, to the General Intervention of the Administration of the State, as I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, with the rigour and protection of our laws and in an exercise of important solvency of our rule of law. A sectoral conference of this specific ad hoc plan will also be created, which has nothing to do with the sectoral conferences of each of the areas of government, where there is a daily transfer of work with other public administrations, to which all the autonomous communities and also the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla will be incorporated. It will be chaired by the Minister of Finance. It aims to channel governance, multi-level participation of administrations, in a territorial way, and to avoid mechanisms of duplicity, which would slow down the scope of the objectives we set ourselves, which will also allow us to have the capacity of projects that have the approach of several autonomous communities, of different areas of our municipalities, a much needed working formula for our own territorial model. It is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, and I stress this, the general intervention of the State administration, which will have the supervision of all the actions, the exercise of control of the funds required by European legislation, and, of course, by our own legislation. The General Intervention of the State shall assume the coordination of all controls assigned to any other body or agency that is dependent on the Government of the Nation, the General Administration. It will also take over control corridors with autonomous or local governments, as well as the necessary result of coordination with other Community or national institutions. That is to say, it will be an efficient control and a panoptic control of all the work we have to tackle. Chapter III of the Royal Decree-Law addresses public management instruments. To this end, we will develop a strategic planning tool for this management, the conduct of an emergency workload audit and the means of intermediate or implementing agencies. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we will work continuously with the surveillance and control of the intermediate instruments that are generated in each and every new situation in order to have a surveillance not only in terms of the traditional standard of work of the Spanish public administrations, but also of those new instruments that will bring about the reality that awaits us. Measures to organize means and resources in relation, of course, to the strategic planning instrument. Also, precise management instructions to be issued by the heads of the subsecretariats of the ministries or the bodies responsible for each subject have to address the different lines of development. And also the training measures that we are going to need, public management training measures that cover not only the human capital of civil servants and women civil servants of the General Administration of the State, but also the people who join a huge job that is going to generate per se, that is, by itself, many jobs. Section 2a of this chapter III also addresses human resources management, as I have almost done before them. It will be necessary to count not only on the absolutely technical, very solvent capital of our country's civil servants, particularly on the responsibility and good doing of our country's senior civil servants, absolutely prepared to deal with an important situation, but also on the human capital which, through recruitment, is incorporated into these tasks. Section 3a, linked to the training and capital we will need, the one we have and the one that comes in a new way, of course, foresees the need to have all the mechanisms and means of digitisation - as I said before - to address all these strategies, all the instruments; in short, the development of the plan as a whole. Finally, Title IV covers the management specialties we deal with. Chapter I lists the areas of budgetary management and control. Chapter II of Title IV deals with specialities in the processing of procedures; we want to avoid over-regulation and unbearable administrative burdens so that nothing we can think of comes into the field of paralysis, of the impossibility which sometimes, too often, administrative procedures are engaged in. For these new instruments or the transformation of existing ones, there will also be constant mechanisms for evaluation and, therefore, for monitoring. The procedure for drawing up the rules adopted in the framework of the implementation of these European funds will be urgent for all purposes and with the scope envisaged - as your honourable Members are currently imagining - in the Government Act. The application of the urgent procedure in the priority office, as provided for in our own law on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, of the procedures involving the execution of expenditure from these European funds is also declared. Chapter III of this Title IV also addresses public procurement specialties in order - I repeat - to meet the objectives of this necessary collaboration efficiently. Chapter IV of this Title IV contains the measures to speed up the agreements to be financed from these funds, while Chapter V deals with the measures to speed up the subsidies to be financed from these European funds. Chapter VI et seq. of this Title IV deals with environmental assessment expertise for each of the projects financed from these funds. We will try, without lowering just one of the necessary rigours of a country, like so many others, committed to all the so-called climate justice decisions and the challenges facing the planet, to achieve greater agility, within the legal certainty, in time, in time, ladies and gentlemen, of the environmental assessment procedures of many of the projects that we will certainly have to address. Finally, we consider the criteria of what I warned your ladies and gentlemen from the beginning regarding the content of this royal decree-law that you know well, the instruments of public-private collaboration for the implementation of this plan. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I am not going to go too far in this House, which takes on the great responsibility of representing the national sovereignty of our country as a whole, but also the expectations, problems and hopes that we have, never more than at the moment, in politics and in public institutions, since it is about turning into reality what has already been an important milestone of the European Union itself, transforming the negative we have had in our lives in relation to the pandemic into a huge opportunity for modernising our country. In other words, there were many outstanding issues that we never imagined we would be able to address so soon, with so many resources, with so much enthusiasm in common. This is the only positive side of what has come to us all. I thank in an extraordinary way those who have announced to us their understanding and support for the validation of this royal decree-law, which is not so to the Government of Spain but to the country as such, to the needs of the society to which we serve as such. This royal decree-law is the instrument to make the funds we are going to dispose of come true. This royal decree-law is not yet the one that governs objectives or resources. To be against this royal decree-law is to be against the initial element, which is the instrument to be able to do so, regardless of the qualification to which we are subject, when the time comes, for doing it right or wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for a vote in favour of this royal decree-law, which is the instrument for working. I am pleased that there is no objection on the part of the Government - on the contrary - that it can be treated as a bill so that it can be improved and made much more perfect with the cooperation of its lords, and I thank all those who, as a group or one-person seats, have already advanced to the Government who will be with us, which is nothing more than simply being with their country at this time. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of that group, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, today we are debating a real, peculiar decree-law and, let me say it, worrying. It was anticipated by the President of the Government in the first days of October last year, justifying himself in one of the socialist mantras, that of simplifying procedures and removing obstacles in the execution of public funds. It was adopted on 22 December and was not published until 31 December, calling for it to be part of the budgetary legislative body. The text had its own media colebrón, with content that was leaked to the related press and that involved the protest of Vice-President Iglesias, who wanted to be part of the approval body of the projects at the highest level; a government mess in which it has ended, as always, by yielding and setting up a council of ministers bis, instead of a delegated commission bis, as reflected in the filtered version. It is a royal decree-law in which more than half of its content did not need a rule of law and that, with the excuse of the imperative need to quickly execute the funds, a significant part of the security mechanisms of the management of the public funds in Spain is taken forward. Hence the concern. It is a royal decree-law that calls for the modernization of the revision of administrative laws adopted with light and tachographs, with rested and debated processing, with the multiple reports that must accompany regulations of this type and that generated legal certainty not only to citizens and companies interested in the different items of public expenditure, but also to public officials and workers responsible for the processing of the respective files. The relaxation of the requirements for processing them or the shortening of certain deadlines, such as those in environmental reports, for those in charge of public affairs, constitute significant areas of risk. It is a royal decree-law which, in the interest of the introduction into the public sphere of principles of efficiency and management by objectives, by a return to the regulation of consortia, agreements, subsidies, contracts and, together with the rehabilitation of agencies, incorporated into the Law on Budgets against the criteria of the lawyers of this House, returns to previous draftings of the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations that had to be ordered in 2015. How little they like, socialist ladies and gentlemen, that their occurrences should be corrected! And some were, given their proven ineffectiveness. They seem to have only one objective: to return to the beginning, and if it is eluding the debates proper to a democratic state, better than better. One example is that, ladies and gentlemen, I do not yet explain myself, unless it is for a perverse intention to circumvent the controls that remain after the reform: the creation of the Ecological Restoration and Resilience Fund, which clones the Secretariat of State for the Environment, because it has competence in each and every area of this management centre. Is this modernity or simplification? Or do they turn restrictive credits into non-binding ones? Everything they are going to do with it has all the credits that the State Secretariat of the Reconstruction Fund has. Everything they are going to do with a fund that by virtue of its legal personality has no staff could be done directly by the Secretariat of State. But that's how they decide. We understand that a real decree-law is not the right vehicle for making reforms like those contained in this one, and our reproach, Madam Vice-President, is not subjugated by the subsequent processing of the rule as a bill, because the reform is already in force and because we have a very bad record. Only one of the royal decree-laws of the states of alarm has begun to be debated, although we approved that they were all done by the urgency procedure. Indeed, in this regard, it is also not appropriate to point out that extraordinary procedures are being adopted for the most rapid and better implementation of the Recovery Plan, since, as set out in Article 1, they refer to all actions financed with European funds, with all, not only with the European Instrument for Recovery, and the final provisions include permanent reforms of the Law on Legal Regime, the Law on Environmental Assessment, the Law on Contracts and the Law on Public Works Concession, among others. The Spanish - because the funds are ours, vice president, not the government, you are right -, we have been benefited with more than 140 billion euros. Europe will give them to us in accordance with a set of rules that can make it possible, despite the pre-allocation, that the funds may not be made effective. It is a question of achieving the objectives that Brussels has clearly set. It is, in short, that we recover and increase our growth potential and that sustainable employment is created over time. We all know the conditions: that actions should be directed towards green and digital, and that the recommendations of the European Semester should also be complied with. It is essential to be right, as in the pandemic, even if you really don't. Just see candidate Illa, no solution of continuity of the failed Minister Illa, without the slightest reproach or accountability. Ladies and gentlemen, we are immersed in a crisis from which, as the International Monetary Fund picked up on Tuesday, it will cost us a lot to get out; a crisis of growth, of debt, of employment. We have just learned the data from the EPA, 755,000 jobs have been lost in the private sector in 2020. Anyone can understand how important it is to select and implement the projects they intend to finance. Well, the government, you have decided - and it is embodied in this royal decree-law - that the decisions will be made in the Moncloa. The Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will be approved by the Council of Ministers. It is said that in the process of elaboration the autonomous communities, local entities and the most representative business and trade union organizations will be heard. They do not, as the European regulation says, include political parties, but that is another story. And this house, Congress, wouldn't it be worth your opinion? I do not know if tomorrow Vice-President Calviño will tell you anything in particular, but this is not the procedure and is also forced by the vote on Monday in the Permanent Chamber. We are at the end of January and we don't know the plan, we don't know what the means are or what the forces and criteria are in place, and you force us with a real decree-law to speed up what, because what you had to do was start with the main thing a long time ago. The plan will set the goals, but it will also incorporate reforms and investments that will largely be framed in what the royal decree-law calls Perte, which can be individual or a kind of umbrella in which the projects to be financed in the various ministries are incardinated, step before everything else. It is not known how it is determined that a project or a set of projects are Loss, and that they are generating benefits. It is only known that they are declared as such - again - by the Council of Ministers, but it is not clear whether the selection process is transparent, whether it is carried out in competitive competition or whether the agreement is reciprocable, which appears not to be, another important issue in the process which is not clear and which can present multiple risks of inefficiency and litigation. Do you not think that this should be reflected in a text that is said to seek effectiveness and efficiency? Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, discretion, lack of transparency and concentration of decisions is a lethal cocktail, conducive to clientelism and corruption; one more risk. Finally, I will make a reference to what the Royal Decree-Law calls governance structures. The Royal Decree-Law establishes the governance of funds through collegiate bodies. You said so, the Commission to lead and coordinate the plan: the full Council of Ministers, four Secretaries of State, the General Secretariat of Funds and the Director of the President's Economic Office, who has recently risen to the rank of Secretary-General, who serves as Secretary-General. The Technical Committee, as an assistance body of the Commission; forums for participation and high-level groups - one for social participation - and, finally, the Sectoral Conference, a body for cooperation between the State and the autonomous communities and possibly - at least on paper - local corporations. And the head of the Department of Economic Affairs and G-20 of the Cabinet of the Presidency of the Government is carrying out - says the Royal Decree-Law textually - the follow-up of the plan to keep the President of the Government informed directly and continuously. I'm sorry, honestly, it's not because of disrespect to the organ or its owner, but doesn't this sound like a joke to you? Or, what's worse, as a mere posture in all this paraphernalia they've mounted? [[Applauds]] On the other hand, none of this has been put in place - that the royal decree-law was not needed for it - and last week took place the first sectoral conference of autonomous communities that ended, you know, as the rosary of the dawn for lack of transparency and, I fear, for many frustrated hopes, perhaps for unfulfilled promises, because they are announcing and promising out there things that neither allow the regulations nor, as you put in that regulation that fell on them, are willing to do. In short, a lot of paraphernalia and a lot of words aimed at defining the principles of management, but not effective and safe procedures - however much they involve the General Intervention of the State, which can only work with the regulations in force and are subtracting a lot of information -, understanding as such those that guarantee the fulfilment of the objectives for which the funds are given. On 29 July, our President asked President Sánchez for the creation of an independent authority for the management of European funds. On 2 September, in Moncloa, he made the request again and offered our support to work together on the National Reform Plan and on the implementation of the recommendations of the European Semester. On December 15, by telephone, he reiterated our offer. And in all cases the silence for answer, and the royal decree-law we met by the BOE on December 31st. The time has passed, the deadlines are short; other countries began after the summer and you come now with a real decree-law that not only does not solve anything, but also complicates everything. That's why we're not going to support his validation. You have wanted it, and what you have to do is to fulfil your responsibility, to properly execute the 50 budget service by fulfilling the objectives to which the funds are directed, to comply with the regulations in force and to carry out the duties set out in the European recommendations without cheating in solitary confinement...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u32	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u33	I'm on my way, President. ...and without giving deplorable shows like the one we lived last week. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, takes the first step in fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. This royal decree-law confirms our fears that the Government intends to take measures away from both the spirit and the letter of the agreement of the European Commission, thus reiterating the need for Spain to have an independent authority that manages and articulates the most important Community resources Next Generation. Mrs Calvo, it is essential, as you have rightly pointed out, to meet the objectives that will effectively achieve the good use of EUR 140 billion for the transformation of the economy, but in Forum we disagree with various instruments, procedures and mechanisms that are invented by this new government regulation and that presage to the detriment of control and augur partiality in the distribution of funds designed to support businesses and create employment through projects of strategic value. I will therefore vote against the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Anyone who knows the Administration well knows that meeting the deadlines for European funds is impossible if measures like those of this royal decree-law are not taken. Moreover, many of these and other similar laws should be applicable to other procedures and have the vocation of permanence, because, seeing what takes time to pass the bills, the figure of the decree-law is essential. It is true that the autonomous communities have their own powers in the areas of finance, public service, subsidies, etc., but unfortunately in Cantabria we do not, as in almost all the autonomous communities, have the figure of the decree-law. That is why I would like to appeal here to the political groups represented in Cantabria, especially the Socialist Party, to support next week the amendment we tabled in the amendment to the Cantabria Statute to have this instrument. In these circumstances it is when you see its usefulness. Then we can't protest if things don't work out properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u39	Thank you, President. I'll step in from the seat. I believe that everyone in this House is fully in favour of European funds coming, as it cannot be otherwise. What we no longer agree on is the way in which the Government intends to manage them. Because the decree that the Government brings us here today is based on unilaterality, and funds that are key to the country's future cannot be decided unilaterally by the Government, without consensus with the autonomous communities, without consensus of the experts, without independent authorities. Indeed, we are talking about a fundamental project for Spain, and since it is a fundamental project for Spain, it is very difficult to understand that the Government has not made the effort to try to agree on a text of this nature before taking it to Congress. What can't be done is that the government continually brings projects to this Parliament, considering that Congress is a funnel that will stick everything that has a government mark. And it is that we are here to decide the future of Spain, and the future of Spain will only be future if we agree among all. We need to talk about strategic projects among all of us because, unilaterally, we will only go to clientelism and political payments. And Spain cannot afford this with funds that are crucial for the economic reconstruction of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my political strength, Coalition Canaria, is going to support the validation of the royal decree for two reasons. As you will recall, at the first meeting you did for this matter everyone was concerned about other things, and it was this Member who asked you that, given my experience as mayor, either the impact laws, the contract law, temporary access to the public service were changed, or this was impossible for me to get out. I remember what you said to me: Today we made the decision in Moncloa to create a team to look at this. I mean, I'm going to support it for that, but also because it's going to be treated as a bill. I think there are a number of important shortcomings. Regardless of my opinion, as I believe that Finance and Intervention should take control of the funds, there are certain aspects, first, by workload and, second, by philosophy, that I understood that I was going to take over the area of the Ministry of Economy, and I see that they are not there. Moreover, with regard to the role to be played by the autonomous communities and, above all, the large cities, which should be directly involved, the amendment of certain rules in the autonomic, local and decision-making bodies, not only of selection, but of justification and of call, should be improved. In my view, for example, it would be very important to hold a meeting of some of the speakers from large cities, selected by the FEMP, so that they could speed it up. There is one thing that is not determined; access to the Public Service for these controls and on commissions of service, which has to be even faster and which is not developed within this decree. In any case, I'll validate it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u43	Thank you, President. Look, I don't have much time, so I'm gonna be telegraphed. We also think that a structural transformation is needed and that we need to be able to imagine a green future, but what comes with the real decree that you have brought us today is totally contrary to all this. We believe that this royal decree expedites the procedures for the Spanish political and economic oligarchy to remain with the European funds. Who is the Spanish political and economic oligarchy? Agbar, Endesa, Repsol, Iberdrola. You have set up 'hunger games' with differential rules for each one; for the big ones, you lower the control of agreements, finger hires, consortia, mixed-economy companies; in fact, you even enable to raise supply contracts - we understand it is for Endesa - while for small and medium-sized enterprises this is going to be a bureaucratic mess to be able to access losses and money. Of course, with the short time we have we cannot tell you much more, but we can ask you three questions, Minister. Are black men going back to see if we apply the conditions that the European Union is asking us to apply in terms of pensions and labour reform? Are you going to rescue the big companies again as in 2008 was done with the banks? Are you about to make a big wave of privatizations like the PSOE did in the 1980s? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, you bring us here today on behalf of the Government a royal decree which seeks to establish or delimit the requirements, the rules and the times both in the public administration and in the whole for the implementation of the Spain May Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Surely neither you nor anyone in this House can be abstracted as to the growing sense of an important part of citizenship. We believe that there has been a lack of transparency in this process, which is as much as to say that there has been some opacity. Because it is not normal for us to wake up almost every day with news pointing to the conditions of the European Union that no one else knows. Thus, one day we see how they point out demands around the labour market with their own labour reform, whether it is in force or not, the possibility of removing it or not; another day with pensions and the requirement to raise the contribution years in order to be able to obtain a pension and the need to reduce them, and so on day after day. There is also a lack of transparency when we see - it has already been pointed out - how graphs show who can be the large companies benefiting from all this aid. And most people don't know all about it. And there has also been a lack of co-governance. You have launched this legislature by pointing out co-governance as one of the fundamental pillars of your political action and yet it is not difficult to find in a media outlet the criticism of the autonomous community, of municipalities or local entities of any sign, that you feel uninformed and excluded from a participatory process. So, I think that's where we need to get better. You were talking about processing as a bill, and I think you certainly have very well marked by civil society itself, by social actors but also by institutions, where we need to improve. And it is true that it is urgent and vital that we get out of this situation, whether with this royal decree or with another, because the EUR 140 billion that society is waiting for is absolutely essential in order to be able to face with a minimum of hope the enormous economic crisis that still threatens us with more virulence every day. I suppose that all the ladies and gentlemen of this House will pass as we do, that reality challenges us, that people challenge us and ask us what we are doing so that they do not continue to suffer the consequences of this crisis. To us the reality challenges us today from the National Audience, where the workers of Alestis, a company of the aeronautical sector, are defending their jobs against a dismissal of the company - by the way, participated by SEPI and, therefore, with public capital - that has decided that in the Araba plants there are left people. We are being questioned from the streets of Sestao and Barakaldo, where the workers of PCB Aero Castings, ITP for me to understand better, are complaining that the staff has been reduced in a quarter, 25% has been fired from that company. That is the reality that challenges us. As surely we are asked of all and all when we see reports like that of Intermon Oxfam, which points out that from the beginning of the pandemic until now the number of people below the poverty line has increased by 800,000, which determines that there are people living on less than 5721 euros a year. That is the reality that we are asking ourselves and for which we want to offer solutions, because we also see that the rich are becoming richer, as we see in that same report that the Spanish billionaires, probably very patriots, have increased their wealth by 26.5 billion euros while almost a million more people have fallen by the slope of poverty. But we are here to be resolute and not just declaratory, not only to denounce this situation but to try to provide solutions. We said it in the investiture, we have repeated it on different occasions and we say it again here today: we want to be resolute and we want to be decisive in improving people's lives. That has been our position all these days in which he has contacted us and us, with the people of Euskal HerriaBildu, to see what was the meaning of our vote and see if we could join in the validation of this royal decree. I believe that we can affirm from this rostrum that we have the commitment of the forces that support the Government to modify, at the stage of amendments, this royal decree into two fundamental elements: in terms of guarantees of transparency and control for the monitoring and implementation of projects and that these conform to the axes of the programme, which is something that civil society poses through its own amendments; and that funding, budgetary allocation, for the municipalities, is increased so that they all have greater capacity to build real economy, to build social fabric and so that cities do not become uninhabited spaces. These are the two demands that we have at all times transferred to the formations that support the Government. I believe that we have the commitment, if not to correct those who are going to happen to me at the turn of the word, and that is why we are not going to block this real decree, but we do want these two issues, which have to do with the guarantees of transparency and control, that the projects are accessible and can be audited, and that relating to the increase in the allocation of money for the municipalities, to be fulfilled. Because there will be those who say that independence gets things for itself and that it only gets things for its territory, but what Euskal Herria Bildu has proposed here today I believe that there is no municipality of the Spanish State, whatever color it is, whether it wants it or does not intend to have it, that are more resources to dedicate to improving the lives of its fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u47	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning, Vice President. Since March 2020, we have been experiencing a completely unprecedented health and social situation produced by COVID worldwide; a pandemic that has put us to the test, which has paralysed the economy, which has entailed a confinement in our homes, restrictions on our mobility; in which governments have tried to find a balance in the economy-health binomial to minimize the negative consequences, although not always successfully; a situation that has led to a major economic crisis worldwide and particularly at the state and European level. However, the pandemic has also led us to an unprecedented situation that has nothing to do with the 2008 European response, and that has led the European Council to agree on a very important financing package to jointly address the impact of the crisis, increase the resilience of the Member States and build a green and sustainable economy, from which Spain will receive EUR 140 billion. Europe has given us a new opportunity, we have extraordinary funding that will require a strategy, planning and implementation of the funds also extraordinary if we do not want to lose that money along the way, and that will also test the capacity of administrations in terms of their management. It is in this context that the Government has approved the Royal Decree - Law 36/2020 which is now subject to validation, which sets in motion a series of measures that, linked to the projects implementing the Recovery Plan, lead to greater agility and efficiency in the implementation of that plan; it also builds a governance scheme to design, approve and implement those actions aimed at the implementation of that Recovery Plan. A decree that is the beginning of an itinerary that the different administrations, the different levels of government and the business fabric will have to travel, in order to obtain funding from these recovery and resilience funds in case these projects are chosen. It is still an unknown itinerary to be found in this regulation which is being discussed at an ad hoc sectoral conference, but which has not been free from controversy. A decree, Vice President, and I have to say, we don't like it. The Nationalist Party does not like it for several reasons; because it is a decree that has not been based on dialogue or consensus; moreover, a decree that we believe should have had greater complicity with the autonomous communities and local entities because it reflects a centralized and highly dependent management of the Government. The management model of the funds is ministerial and with about twenty ministers, the distribution, choice and allocation of projects at least will be complicated. Because where you see co-governance with the Autonomous Communities, we see absence, because the authorities that define, approve, control, evaluate, report and acquire responsibility for decision-making related to this Recovery Plan are concentrated on a single institutional level, that of the Government of the State, with an ad hoc structure and leaving the participation of the Autonomous Communities only through this Sectoral Conference of the Recovery Plan. Because the measures taken to expedite and decongest procedures are often confined to State administration alone, and this is sometimes difficult to fit while the autonomous communities will also need agility and flexibility in their procedures, including in their human resources organization, if they want to be able to implement those projects. You see, reticences, but still we are aware that we are playing the exit from the crisis, the recovery of the economy, the future and the hope of a citizen who sees in these funds, because we have made it known, a table of salvation. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about recovering the economy from the pandemic, but about building a more resilient business fabric and, of course, changing the economic model so that it can successfully meet new challenges in the future and even prevent other crises. It is in this key that my group, the Basque Group, is moving today to justify our position; in terms of responsibility, because if this decree is not validated today, what message would we be giving Europe and society? A wrong message, a message of instability. Are we prepared to miss the opportunity that has been created in Europe in a current, crucial context, in which we are playing the game of receiving an important package of economic aid to get out of this social and economic crisis resulting from the COVID? Are we prepared not to facilitate the flexibility of the management model and the speeding up of procedures in administrations for the management of these funds, when we know that they are key factors in preventing the loss and return of aid, especially when most parliamentary groups here have criticized the low implementation of the ERDF funds precisely for these same causes, for having an obsolete administration and rigid mechanisms and for lack of staff? As we move on this key today, we will also see what key of responsibility the rest of the parliamentary groups are going to move in terms of the future management of these funds. Once again, my group is taking responsibility for a decree that we do not like, which is a paradox; and you, gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the PSOE, should also have moved ahead and should have moved on that key, but not only today, but in all the regulations that you will regulate because the responsibility for things to come out and progress is yours, of the Government, and yet sometimes you want to make it fall on the rest of the parliamentary groups and, in particular, on my group. You act many times as if you had absolute majority when drafting the rules. They don't count on anyone, and then at the last minute they want us to support them. Change your modus operandi, change your chip, dialogue and agree before you bring the decrees, and only then will the agonies and troubles of the last moment be avoided. The previous strategy and planning is also key in policy. Today, once again, we will take their chestnuts out of the fire, vote in favour, despite all the reluctance, and hope that all these reluctances that I have spoken of can be solved by means of a bill or regulation at the sectoral conference. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we know that we play very much, but we cannot always ask the same party to give in because the patience of my group also has a limit. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u49	Thank you, President. Madam First Vice-President, Mrs Calvo, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I think it has already become clear in this rostrum, in this Chamber, that we are faced with a real decree-law which may be the most important of this legislature, because it should be the basis on which we structure the new model of country. The European funds have to be used for two things: to adapt Spain to the new needs of the citizens and to be the fundamental instrument to get out of this crisis caused by the pandemic. Europe has shown itself to be up to the challenge: a package of historic aid and joint debt issuance for the first time in history, achieved with dialogue, negotiation and consensus, as we want for Spain. We all know that this aid package is essential, but we all know that this aid is not unconditional. We will have to carry out a series of structural reforms with very clear objectives. We must be clear about how money is managed and what it is invested in. Citizens from the very beginning have been committed to removing bureaucratic obstacles and speeding up all processes, but, of course, agility cannot be an excuse for the government not to be held accountable. Money must reach families, self-employed people and businesses as soon as possible, but it must also be accompanied by a strengthening of control mechanisms; control mechanisms such as those proposed in our amendments to the State General Budgets, which you and your partners vetoed. It is curious that in this royal decree-law we see words such as dialogue, consensus, transparency and collaboration. These are words to be thanked, but we already know that the paper endures everything. If this royal decree-law, Mrs Calvo, is so important to Spain, why have they not sought that dialogue and consensus with the rest of the political forces? You come up to this rostrum to talk about dialogue and consensus and it turns out that ultimately the decisions relating to these funds will be ultimately taken by the President of the Government and the Council of Ministers. He says it's a matter of state and not government, but you want to put a sticker on these funds again and take the picture, like with the vaccines. In our amendments to the budgets, we proposed the creation of a reconstruction and reform office with autonomy and independence, which would issue binding recommendations to public administrations on the selection of projects, evaluation and follow-up in a fully public and transparent manner. However, you bring us a technical committee that will prepare the roles for the almighty committee in which only the members of the government are present. At least - and I say at least - let us thank you for having been incorporated into one of the articles - on 22, I think I remember - a quarterly appearance before the Joint Commission for the European Union, but that is not enough. This royal decree has many agencies, committees and commissions included in the text, but, finally, it is the agency led by the Government that takes the last decisions, a concentration of power in Moncloa without strengthening the control mechanisms, which we fear may end up drifting into arbitrariness. Unfortunately, we have very recent Plan E, Mrs Calvo. We can't afford it; another Plan E, no. You are talking about responsibility, but the Recovery Plan you sent to the European Commission last week did not have the consensus of the General Courts, as agreed in the pacts within the Commission for Reconstruction. To this day, we still do not know the content of that reform package, they have not yet made it public; just as you are waiting for the opportune time to publicize it and to get it out of the election, or just as I am a misconception. Its course is making clear to us the level of commitment, transparency, consensus and accountability of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, you are once again wrong about partners; partners who are the alternative to what Citizens have put to you. Partners such as Esquerra and Bildu, who supported them in the investiture, supported them with some real decrees of the state of alarm and supported the budgets, but left them in a state of alarm and left them also now. They're wrong about partners again. You call for responsibility, but it is your responsibility, Mrs Calvo, that is the responsibility of this Government. They choose their partners badly, of course, because they believe that you govern by absolute majority and do so by a coup d'état. We are presented with decrees that seek to support us without the slightest negotiation yes or yes and yet you speak of responsibility when the irresponsible, as I said to you, are you. We must all have a high eye, the opposition, of course, but also the Government, Mrs Calvo. We cannot support this decree, we cannot vote in favour, but if validated we will work on its processing as a bill. Here again they have a hand stretched out, a responsible hand that works for all Spaniards; it is the hand of Citizens from the first moment of the pandemic. Don't make any mistakes about partners again. Let us be an example of moderation, good management and understanding because that is our mission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the government justifies the need for this administrative reform in the agile, efficient and modern action needed to ensure the absorption of a high volume of resources that will, theoretically, accelerate the recovery of employment and economic activity. However, once again the marked centralizing bias that imprints on this whole process, among other negative issues, will contribute to a slower management of these funds. If you want agile management, change direction and choose to decentralize and involve the autonomous communities and municipalities in the management of these funds. That is the way forward, and we are not just saying it because, yesterday, the European Committee of the Regions and the Council of European Municipalities and Regions warned of the exclusion of communities and municipalities from the preparation and management of recovery plans and indicated that it jeopardizes the success of the implementation of these plans. In addition, the elimination of administrative procedures, controls and time-limits are clearly at risk of investment and project selection failing to meet the necessary guarantees. They talk about removing obstacles and red tape, but it should be remembered that the procedural rules that are now being reformed are recent and have precisely the function of establishing a secure, clear and guaranteed administrative procedure. We are particularly concerned about the reduction of time limits for monitoring and monitoring and environmental assessment of projects, as it will make it difficult for social knowledge and the articulation of responses to them. And we are even more concerned - with this end - that the entire bureaucratic framework should be geared towards making the main beneficiaries of the funds large companies, including those of IBEX 35, rather than society as a whole. In short, we cannot support this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, you know that we are very concerned about some elements of the management of European funds. We're concerned that we've been getting to know aspects of the press before they got to Congress. We are concerned that there are things that were known earlier in Brussels or by the great consultants that were known by the representatives of popular sovereignty. We are concerned that it can favour a process of oligarchisation and concentration in large companies because small ones have much more difficulty in accessing European funds, when they are the ones that need them most and the ones that need to transform most. And we are very concerned about a possible reduction of controls in the award of environmental impact reports, transparency and, therefore, the traceability of where the funds go, and also accountability, which we are moving towards a sort of mixed sui generis economy, in which the public assumes all the risks and the big ones of the private all the benefits. It seems to us that if the money goes to the usual, to do the usual, we will repeat the same mistakes of 2008, but surely with more beautiful words. That is why we urge you to bring the recovery plan here to the Congress of Deputies before the big companies know it and before the Brussels know it, basically because this government has not been elected by Brussels or the big companies, it has been elected by the Congress of Deputies and it has to come here before others know it or we will hear from the press. We have told him many times that it seems to us that Congress has a mission to do better for the Government and we have always committed ourselves to that task. We are going to vote in favour of passing this royal decree, and we are going to do so, first of all, out of responsibility to our country and, secondly, because we humbly believe that we have contributed to European funds helping to transform, to innovation and to make an economy more just and more at the service of life. We will vote in favour after we have reached an agreement for a national pilot project that will study with companies the implementation of a reduction in working time that is good for conciliation, that is good for the environment, that is good for health and that increases productivity. It is our contribution to reorienting the economy to the service of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. The pandemic, of course, as the Vice-President reminded us, is a global challenge, but this government cannot be proud of its local management. Being, according to Johns Hopkins, the fifth country with the most deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, it is evident that it cannot boast of health management. That the Minister of Health abandons the boat the week that most deaths occur from the first wave tells a lot of what its priorities are. Unfortunately, however, the economic management of the crisis has been equally disastrous: without direct aid to the sectors most hit by COVID, without tax cuts, without the postponement of taxes that the economy and families need. This is the Executive of the second OECD country with the worst prospects for economic recovery, and the haste that the State has had to levy taxes or raise the quotas of the self-employed has been inversely proportional to the speed in the payment of the hundreds of thousands of ERTE that have not yet been collected. We can find ourselves - as ten years ago - with the government's incompetence making the economic crisis harder and more durable in Spain than in the countries of its environment. One of the main obligations of any State was to protect its citizens, and in that regard the Government had failed dramatically. This royal decree, which paves the way for the arrival of European funds, can be a great opportunity if they are used rationally. But since Junts per Catalunya we believe that this is incompatible with an opaque and non-competitive distribution, where the main beneficiaries will be the companies of IBEX 35, which are the ones that need it least, when it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that have been most affected by the pandemic and which in Catalonia represent more than 90% of the business fabric. So while there are entrepreneurs who suffer as never before, you will continue to benefit your friends forever. We are presented with an extremely centralized plan and, in Spain, centralization is rarely synonymous with efficiency: Council of Ministers, committee composed of the president and the executive, technical committee, cabinet of presidency that will follow up... We are very concerned about this journey, very much. We fear that the award of strategic projects for recovery may become a festival of favoritism. Does parliamentary control sound familiar to you? Do European standards ring a bell? Does the concept of competitive competition ring a bell? If they are European funds, they should be distributed and used with European criteria. If that were the case, the recovery plan that we are voting for today Catalonia would receive around 20% of the 140 billion. If it is distributed in this uncompetitive way, to the Spanish one, this quantity can be reduced by half. When it is Madrid that distributes, Catalonia usually receives crumbs. We've seen it with the general budgets. Pedro Sánchez agreed to a territorial distribution of the funds with the groups that gave them support to the budgets and the state of alarm and, once again, he has failed. Our not of today, like those of then, is consistent with the action before a government that systematically fails to do what it promises for Catalonia. From the first day we reported that it would not comply. All his promises evaporate; he is also. This royal decree is a paradigmatic example of the high price Catalonia pays for its dependence or lack of independence from Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u57	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Happy year, because I think it's the first plenary session and some of you haven't seen them. I will intervene briefly, because this story does not have much history, Madam Vice-President. What are we talking about? We are talking about a money; a money agreed and agreed for many hours in the heart of Europe by the Member States and for the Member States: EUR 750 billion, EUR 140,000 for Spain; a money charged to the European Commission's debt capacity, with the Member States as a guarantee of payment and amortised in the Union's regular budget. So far, the facts; even, so far, the good news. Let's go with the bad ones: where's the trick?, what's the trick? Because, of course, this is a money; there has to be a trick. In exchange for what? What's all this for? EUR 140 billion in exchange for what? As is well known, Member States must draw up and present a national recovery plan listing and arguing the needs, investments and reforms that justify receiving this money, a plan that must be approved by the European Council, a council dominated by the Franco-German axis, and, if not, by the Netherlands, by Mark Rutte. Merkel, Macron and Mark Rutte are going to look for the SMEs, for the self-employed? Finally, in the case of Catalonia, will they look at 98.9% of Catalan companies? We think not; indeed, curious patriots those - in the case of PP and VOX - who have voted with these people in Europe against the interests of these funds. I ask one question: are these policies, these plans, going to be restrictive or extensive? Are they going to be for large companies or for SMEs and self-employed people? We think - I repeat - that it will be the first. But what is the plan of the Government - the most progressive Government in the history of humanity, according to them - against this? Make it even easier for these factual powers. Leo, paragraph 3(d): The criteria to be assessed for declaring a valid project shall be that they are important both quantitatively and qualitatively, with a particularly large size, or that they pose a high level of technological or financial risk. Where does that leave SMEs and self-employed workers in this country, where does it leave them? We believe that this royal decree is written for people like Florentino Pérez and not for self-employed workers or for SMEs, and we believe that this country - at least ours - is full of the second, not the first, so it seems to us that obviating them is not only absurd but also harmful. A few months ago, in that kind of group therapy you set up, PSOE and PP, called the Reconstruction Commission, the least socialist of all of you but the most sincere - not by honest, but by pride - Josep Borrell, answered a very clear question from the Republican Group that said something like: What will all these millions entail? Will they involve cuts, will they involve divestitures of large companies? Josep Borrell, more cool than an eight - as almost always - literally replied: You have no idea of economy - talked about me, answered me - nothing is free. Of course, European aid will mean divestitures!, of course it will mean cuts! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, with all due respect, there are those who are sold before they buy it. They don't sell before time. But there is an added problem, apart from turning their backs on thousands and thousands of SMEs: a terrible centralization. You again pay tribute to Robespierre in drafting this royal decree. There are zero autonomous, municipal and local positions with decision-making power in the decision-making spaces for the delivery and distribution of these funds. Man!, maybe it would be nice to listen to people like Urkullu, Ximo Puig or Pere Aragonès in the distribution of these funds, to say three names. In short, this royal decree is dictated and drafted by the lobbies and by the big employers, jacobins in the competitive and neoliberal in the economic. I repeat, they are not sold before time. This royal decree, for us, unfortunately, will come out, but I wish they would stop doing business and start doing politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u58	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the explanations. In mid-March of last year, when we began to be aware of the problem that this pandemic was really going to pose, when we knew that the measures that we had to take from the health point of view - confinement, restrictions on mobility, closure of businesses, etc. - would irremediably bring together a major economic crisis that would make the situation very difficult for working people, for normal people, when this Government made the right decision to act radically different from what had been done in the 2008 crisis and decided to promote a social shield that would protect the rights of workers and that would leave no one behind and not leave anyone behind, all of us somehow looked back at Europe. The doubt was reasonable. Knowing the action that Europe had taken in the previous crisis, the cruelty with which it implemented austerity policies and the lack of empathy it had with the countries of southern Europe and specifically in such dramatic situations as Greece suffered, the doubt about what it was going to do this time was normal, was reasonable. That is why, when we learned that the Stability Pact was suspended, we all breathed relieved. Similarly, when, at last, despite the attempt by some countries to boycott it and not to implement it, we knew that there was an agreement for the allocation of recovery funds, we all rejoiced and breathed relieved. Europe had understood that the crisis had to be addressed in a different way than in 2008, and that was good news for all and for all. Well, not for all and not for all, because, as we well know, the representatives of the Dutch party in this House did everything possible to ensure that this agreement was not implemented, and even when the agreement was concluded they did everything possible to ensure that these funds were not managed by the Government but through any other body created - I suppose - at their request, with people they put in, to have control of something that the citizens have not given them, to have control over these funds. That is why I believe that the parties we are in the Government have a responsibility to face this challenge by doing exactly the opposite of what they would have done if they were in the Government. We all know what they would do: it would capture these funds as a loot to distribute, primarily among the friends, the big companies and the multinationals, which have then usually filled, among other things, their envelopes and their boxes in B. We have to do just the opposite, we have to ensure that these funds reach the citizen through a correct use that serves what is supposed to serve, recovery and economic transformation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I would say to you that I do not know if you have not heard what has happened in this country in the last twelve years, particularly in the last year, because when I hear Mr Pablo Casado at a conference this week in Barcelona talking about using these recovery funds for more brick, more cement, the Austrian backpack or lowering taxes on the rich, I really think you have not understood or have not heard anything at all. If we have learned something in this pandemic, with all the pain and suffering that it has generated, it is that I believe that there have been a number of facts that have become pure common sense and that even you will have to end up accepting, even if only out of pure and mere electoral interest. One, that when situations like this arrive, when situations arrive badly, it is the public services, it is the workers who are on the front line, it is the welfare state that protects the rights of citizens and gives security when there is uncertainty and instability, who save us. It's not Florentino Pérez, it's not Amancio Ortega, it's not public-private collaboration, it's not the market. No, it's the workers, it's the public sector and it's the state. Therefore, no more poorly financed public services, weakened public services and no more a welfare State unable to meet the protection and security needs of our citizens. Two, that our economy cannot continue to depend on tourism, brick, speculation. It is not possible, it has been shown that it leads us to a position of weakness that, in the face of such situations, leaves us practically adrift, that we need to make a transformation of the productive system to regain control and industrial capacity, to strengthen our strategic sectors and to make a transformation, in fact, into an ecological, green and also a key to innovation and a commitment to research and development, science and education. That is what we have to do with these European funds. Finally, I think it is also quite obvious that you cannot have a political model in which you make policies to benefit large companies, that that can be very good to grease the rotating doors that then many of you will use, but that, of course, is not good for the state and is not good for society. Therefore, we have an obligation to use these funds to do just the opposite of what you would do and to use them for what you supposedly should serve, which is recovery and transformation. And yes, it is true, the decree offers some doubts. The representative of Euskal Herria Bildu has quoted two, which we assume perfectly and understand. There are more that have been cited by other political groups. There are doubts about the environmental issue, whether certain levels of control are being reduced, and even whether deadlines are being shortened so that environmental organisations can submit amendments to certain projects, which is also not something that is being spent on the structural issue of funds, but will become permanent. There are also doubts from the point of view of personnel management, because we have some public administrations that are weakened - we all know that - that have already had problems in managing some of the policies that have been driven by the Government throughout this pandemic. There are therefore doubts as to how they will deal with this situation and whether they will have the capacity to respond to all the demands of this work and at the same time to continue to deal with ordinary matters. They are also involved in some aspects which have to do with collective bargaining and which are not solved. Of course, there are also doubts as to how the funds are to be distributed and whether large companies are to be given priority or distributed more equitably. In short, there are doubts that we believe that they will have to be discussed and that they will have to be resolved in the course of their processing as a bill. And there we will find ourselves working to, on the one hand, meet the objectives that must be met with these funds and, on the other hand, do not be allowed to end up becoming a sort of banquet for vultures, while the rest of society stays with the crumbs. Of course, we're going to be all the heads and heads that we have to be, where we have to be and when we have to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u61	Thank you, Madam President. The new year doesn't come without surprises. Today we have been able to listen here to Mr Errejón defending the sovereignty of the Spanish people above the multinationals. We have heard Mr Rufián defend Spain's sovereignty over the Franco-German axis that controls the European Union and defend SMEs. Be careful that along that path you end up in VOX and not if I know if we could manage that well. [[Laughter and applause]] Madam Vice-President, you are bringing to this House today a very important royal decree-law, obviously, for the future of Spain, decisive, even; a rule that will determine in a good way the design, the execution, the administration of European funds that will be key or that can be key to the recovery of Spain. A great opportunity, because, well invested, these funds can become a stimulus to drive an urgent recovery and face the main challenges of our economy, but, poorly invested, they can return us to those years not so far away, which you will remember well, in which public investment became a synonym of waste, propaganda and charity, even worse than what we have usually seen with unproductive public spending. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain cannot afford a new mistake that condemns us to a new failure, because the Spaniards already know what comes next. We do not forget that Zapatero's Plan E was followed by a freezing of pensions, the reduction of salaries to officials and the biggest adjustment plan in our history, the real cuts. [[Applauds]] So far we have not forgotten, that at the beginning of this same legislature we have already warned you that you would end up like ZP. Well, you already have two out of three in this first year. Although the Minister of Finance denied it not three times, as in the Bible, but four times, it has already raised taxes; the Minister of Social Security has already announced a drop in pensions and cutting public employees will not take long to arrive, and if not, at the time. That is precisely why, Madam Vice-President, and because you are part of a totally irresponsible government, investing European funds well is even more important now than then. It is, of course, quantitatively. Spain, the country that has managed to implement less European funds in recent years, faces the enormous challenge of designing, allocating and now implementing funds worth 15 billion euros, a major challenge considering that from 2014 to 2020 we have barely been able to certify 20 billion euros. But, above all, the management of these funds is very important because of the delicate moment it comes. The impact of coronavirus on our economy continues to be devastating, despite official propaganda, and many businesses, self-employed and traders, have been forced to lower their business blind again. This is the umpteenth blow to our productive fabric. Whole sectors, from the car industry, to tourism or hospitality, are dying and looking at us today in the hope that those resources in Europe will even enable them to survive. It remains a priority to keep what remains of our companies alive and we cannot start a recovery outside our productive fabric, whose survival remains or should be the first objective of our economic policy. First, you arrived late; then, you pushed for wrong measures that lacked the agility and strength necessary to prevent the destruction of businesses and jobs, and when it seemed impossible to make the situation worse, you were the only government in all of Europe that decided to increase taxes. Consequence: we are the country that has destroyed the most companies, the country that has lost the most jobs and the country that has suffered the greatest economic deterioration. But you live in a bubble so alien to the reality of the Spaniards that Minister Escrivá came to say this week that structural employment had barely been destroyed. Well look, today's published data from the fourth quarter of the EPA indicate that we closed 2020 with 750,000 jobs destroyed - I guess they won't be structural for the minister - and that's not counting the 750,000 Spaniards currently in an ERTE. I don't know if that's enough. You live outside the country, and you re-demonstrate it with this royal decree-law in which you forget the reality in which hundreds of thousands of traders, small self-employed, small entrepreneurs who agonize, Madam Vice President; people, employers and employees, who could have their last chance in these funds. But instead of supporting our entrepreneurs and our job creators, this government wants to create other different entrepreneurs, that is, without having any news of how difficult it is to set up a business. But you want to create a new business class, in the words of Vice President Iglesias. It is missing to say 'entrepreneurs of his', new entrepreneurs of the BOE who will be anointed through what this royal decree calls Strategic Projects for Economic Recovery and Transformation, PERTE, rhymes with ERTE. The name couldn't be more unfortunate. The management of the economy will not be the result of the free choice of economic operators from now on, but will be directed by the Council of Ministers. On October 7, President Sánchez presented the Recovery Plan. It was, in theory, a country project with an impact for several generations to which the Government should have tried to incorporate the contributions of the various groups in this House. But, as is customary in this Government, it has done so since Moncloa, it has done so without anyone and with unacceptable obscurantism, absolutely outside institutions such as this, which represents national sovereignty, and without any dialogue with opposition parties. He wants to be the boss and he wants to be the boss of everything. Therefore, the architecture for the management of these funds configured outside this House has deprived all groups of any kind of participation and this royal decree-law, like all, also entered into force without having previously negotiated in this House. This legislative roll that we are accustomed to, with which they have abused the royal decree in recent months, has been continued. The administration of these funds has been articulated in such a partisan way that it does not meet the minimum standards of ethics or aesthetics. The coordination of the recovery plan is made directly dependent on the cabinet of the President of the Government, and a kind of parallel administration is articulated, capable of deciding outside the ordinary procedures. The aim was to provide the mechanism with transparent, agile and objective procedures to save businesses and jobs and address the country's challenges. However, what they are presenting to us today are the foundations of the largest customer network in the history of Spain. The political consultants, populated by former high socialist officials, are already celebrating in open, without any redness, the manna that will fall to them from the president's cabinet. Madam Vice-President, only from the most extreme sectarianism can we turn a historic opportunity for Spain as this into a customer tool at the service of a political party. VOX, of course, is in favour of such funds reaching our companies, not as a gift, not as a grace of this government, but as a compensation, as compensation for what we have caused them to suffer among all, but we cannot be accomplices to a system designed to support a client network in the service of its party home. Unfortunately, even the most ominous forecasts we have launched in this House have been met with absolute precision. So today, January 28, 2021, take note of you and the new graces of the management of the distribution of the spoil, because today we again warn you: this opaque mechanism is the shortest way to corruption. And we'll be vigilant. The Spaniards don't deserve less. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u62	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you also, First Vice-President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are attending a debate in which we are almost no longer surprised, so we have heard in this forum of the Congress of Deputies. I would like to respond to some of the statements and, above all, to place the responsibility for what we have in our hands today. Mr Rufián - you are not in the Chamber now - I ask you whether SEAT is a multinational or are the thousands of workers employed in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Because this plan will also allow the transformation of the car industry in this country. How irresponsible for an election campaign, Mr. Rufián. Ladies and gentlemen, this country and its citizens deserve responsible opposition, in the face of the suffering of millions of citizens, and not that which you are continually doing in this House. We are at a momentous moment, today we are designing Spain for the next generations and testing the adaptability of an entire country at a time that will necessarily be different. Democracy, but also history, have shown that one is useful in governing, but that it can also be from the opposition, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I know that on too many occasions in this legislature it has been difficult for you to understand this, because too many times in this legislature you have done everything possible to make your country feel bad, but it is even more difficult to understand your full role in relations with the European Union. They opposed Spain's participation in the SURE programme, with which we are financing thousands of jobs such as ERTE. They tried by all means to ensure that Europe did not have the EUR 140 billion that will reach Spain to help us in economic recovery. But not content with this, they also tried to put very harsh conditions on these funds and, in turn, they have done everything possible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, so that the General Budgets of the State for 2021, which allow these funds to be channelled, were not approved. And now, not content with all that, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is going to vote no to the validation of this royal decree-law that will allow these funds to be channeled, and that we can have an agile processing and comply with Europe! That is what you are doing today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which is as much as saying your enormous irresponsibility to this country and to the men and women of Spain. [[Applause.- Negative gestures by Mrs Rodríguez Herrer]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality and not what you have tried to sell us today in your speech about your doubts about the handling of this bill. Because you are the same ones who said that you were going to put the lyrics to a music that sounded good, that of the European funds, and what you are putting the lyrics to a black novel, the blackest novel in the history of this country that is your opposition to this House, ladies and gentlemen. The same People's Party that goes so far as to say that with European funds we have to pay the damages of the time we have suffered, especially because of its irresponsibility in Madrid. You do not know what the European funds are about, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! That is their irresponsibility also with this country. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are using the most exceptional circumstances that we have experienced as a country and as a democracy for the only purpose they have, which is to defeat this government. You are, in short, anti-patriots. [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Herrer]] They have made the most disloyal, irresponsible, unjust and painful opposition that is remembered in no corner of Europe. And you have also made a more proud effort here today in order only to harm this government, ladies and gentlemen. Today you had a chance - I don't know if the last one - to tie your shoulder and go and say no and you fail your country again. Do not forget, because the men and women of this country will not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And what we are discussing here, ladies and gentlemen, is the validation of this royal decree-law which is a country opportunity, an opportunity to address the crisis from a common European perspective with this recovery plan, an opportunity to launch the greatest mobilization of resources that is remembered, an opportunity to develop investments and structural reforms, an opportunity to recover employment and lost economic activity, ladies and gentlemen. In short, an opportunity to win and build the future. The crisis has been devastating, the pandemic has taken too many people's lives ahead and caused immense pain. That is why the importance of a Plan such as Recovery, Transformation and Resilience will allow us to move forward in that green, digital, inclusive and social recovery. And for that it is essential that we adopt this real decree today, which will speed up and allow us all the administrative procedures so that these European funds can be implemented, ladies and gentlemen. Because what we are voting on here today is not the distribution of European funds, what we are voting on is the implementation of European funds, which can be implemented and also with guarantees. That is why, especially today, I would like to thank all the political parties in this House who have understood the message and the importance of the historic moment that we are experiencing. I would especially like to thank Mr Matute and to guarantee the commitment of this parliamentary group to the proposals that we also share, namely that we have and agree improvements for greater transparency - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! - and for the municipalities to also count on European funds. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Or are you also against it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the municipalities of this country should participate in European funds? Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? And also thanks in particular to Mr Errejón, with whom we are going to share this project to increase the productivity of companies in a moment and also within the framework of social dialogue. Because that is what this parliamentary group has agreed today, that is what we have agreed today to look to the future, ladies and gentlemen. And today that opportunity is not with this parliamentary group, it is not with the Government, it is with the history of Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 35/2020, OF 22 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE TOURIST SECTOR, HOSTELLERY AND TRADE AND IN TRIBUTARY MATTERS. [[File number 130/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u65	We now turn to the third item on the agenda, the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 35/2020 of 22 December of urgent measures to support the tourism sector, hospitality and trade and tax matters. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appear before the plenary of the Congress of Deputies to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 35/2020 of 22 December of urgent measures in support of the tourism, hospitality and trade sector and in tax matters, a decree containing a new package of measures that reinforce those already adopted since the beginning of the pandemic, the aim of which is to alleviate the situation of businesses and self-employed people in these activities and to meet their fixed costs, among others, wages, rent or payment of taxes, as well as social contributions, which allow them to remain viable and which are not subject to closure. A support that we have coordinated with the rest of the public administrations at the sectoral conference held on 28 December, which has led to a joint response from all the administrations that allows us to protect more companies, self-employed and workers in the tourism sector, hospitality and commerce, since there are many autonomous communities and municipalities that are currently adopting measures in the form of direct aid that complement - as I say - the measures contained in this royal decree-law. [[The Lord]] As you know, the measures taken to contain the pandemic have substantially reduced personal relationships and mobility, both national and international, and the effects have been devastating in our tourism and commercial sector, as they have been in the rest of the world. There is no doubt that 2020 will be remembered as the worst year in the history of tourism, hospitality and commerce, so the measures contained in this royal decree-law that we are debating today are so important, because it gives these sectors security, because it gives them certainty to face the difficult weeks that still remain to bend the curve again and control the pandemic. The beginning of the vaccination process certainly offers a horizon of hope, we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel, but as we go through that tunnel, companies and workers need a safety net to ensure their survival. This additional package of measures which we are discussing today is in addition to an ambitious safety net which the Government has deployed since the beginning of the pandemic, and which this Parliament has supported in a majority; a network to protect the productive fabric, employment, but also family income from the economic and social crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The successive packages of measures that have been put in place have made it possible, first of all, to deal with the most critical phase, when there was an almost total cessation of economic activity as a result of the population's confinement to stop the contagion. Secondly, this network has also been responding to the lifting of restrictions and enabling the reactivity of economic activity and the gradual recovery of employment in an environment still of high uncertainty as a result of the evolution of the pandemic. I would like to highlight from this ambitious safety net some measures, in particular the ICO's line of endorsement, which so far has enabled more than 42.5 billion of funding to be mobilised for companies in the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, which has benefited more than 260,000 companies, especially SMEs and self-employed. The extraordinary support of the temporary employment regulation dossiers, which has allowed us to protect more than one million jobs in the tourism and commercial sector at the highest peak in April, and which currently protects 473 000 workers, at a cost of EUR 8500 million, or the extraordinary benefit for self-employed people, who currently receive more than 154 000 beneficiaries in the tourism, trade and hospitality sector, at a cost of EUR 880 million. These measures undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, represent an extraordinary effort of public resources which has avoided a massive destruction of employment, but, above all, which has encouraged the integration of workers into their jobs as the situation was being normalised, and which has also protected those who have been most affected by the negative evolution of the pandemic. Undoubtedly, the recent social agreement extending ERTE and the extraordinary provision of self-employed until the end of May offers stability and certainty to businesses and workers, and I would like to highlight the important role that social dialogue is playing, a social dialogue that is working for the general interest and at the service of Spanish society. This extension involves direct aid to the hospitality, trade and tourism sectors of around EUR 4 billion until the end of May. Ladies and gentlemen, from the government we have made an extraordinary effort to support the tourism sector, hospitality and trade by allocating more than EUR 62 billion, which undoubtedly demonstrates our commitment to the viability of these sectors. As I told you, all these actions have allowed us to protect a solid base of business and economic fabric, cushioning the negative impact of the pandemic and avoiding deeper and more permanent structural effects that could have put its recovery at risk. Thanks to these measures, which are still in force today, the Spanish economy has shown a great capacity for recovery, as more evident proof was the evolution of GDP during the third quarter of this year, with a growth that was surprised to have occurred, moreover, in a complicated context, still with absence of international tourism and with rebounds, you will recall, important in some territories of our country. In addition, the measures to protect companies and workers are continuously adapting to the changing circumstances of the pandemic, and it is from this perspective that we are constantly updating and adapting the responses we are giving to the needs of our productive fabric and in this framework, as I said, where the presentation of the actual decree-law that we are debating today is justified. The fundamental objective is to continue to ensure the effectiveness of the safety net in the coming months, until the vaccination process finally achieves that we leave behind the extraordinary situation generated by the pandemic. In particular, the royal decree-law that we bring to validation today mobilizes a total of 4220 million euros to strengthen the hospitality, trade and tourism with the following actions. First, measures to lease business premises are approved. In the event that the lessor is a large ten-room fork or more, if the parties fail to reach an agreement, the lessee who is a SME or self-employed person may choose two alternatives. On the one hand, the 50% reduction in rent for the duration of the state of alarm, its extensions and up to a maximum of four additional months, from the end of the state of alarm, or to a moratorium on the payment of rent for the duration of the state of alarm, its extensions and up to a maximum of four additional months, from the end of the state of alarm. This deferred payment of income may be made for a period of two years, starting from the end of the moratorium. The potential number of premises benefiting from this measure would amount to around 190 000, 33 000 for tourist premises and 173 000 for commercial premises. For the rest of the tenants of commercial premises, a tax incentive is provided, which is intended to encourage natural persons renting premises in which economic activities linked to tourism, hospitality or commerce are carried out, to voluntarily agree on rent reductions for the months of January, February and March 2021, allowing to compute a deductible expenditure for the calculation of the return on real estate capital and the amount of the rent reduction agreed during those months. This incentive, ladies and gentlemen, has an estimated cost of EUR 324 million, and makes it possible to reduce up to 100% of any monthly rent if the lessor lowers all rent. It is estimated that 323,701 lessors are benefiting from this measure. Secondly, measures are also taken in the area of liquidity and solvency. A new specific section is set up within the ICO SME and autonomous support line for the tourism sector, the hotel industry and related activities, with EUR 500 million and a state guarantee of up to 90 %. It is a line that will allow financing to companies very affected by the COVID-19, such as travel agencies, discretionary transport or the housing sector, to be increased by 10 points, as the guarantee said, of public endorsement. On the other hand, travel agencies and tour operators and booking services may use ICO-backed financing for the return of advances to customers for combined travel and compensation rights. In this block I will be able to make a reference to the extension of the period of default in loans backed by ICO lines and mutual guarantee societies in the different autonomous communities, with the re-establishment of Cersa, as well as the period of depreciation, a measure, ladies and gentlemen, which was adopted on 24 November in the Council of Ministers. This measure, as I said, of extending the shortfalls and the repayment deadlines for ICO loans benefits more than 256,000 tourism, hospitality and trade companies, and there is no doubt a reduction in the financial effort as a result of this postponement in the repayment of the principal and the interest on State-backed loans. Thirdly, tax measures are introduced. In particular, a further deferral of tax debts is approved for six months, with three months of interest-deficit, upon request and also of tax debts corresponding to declarations, liquidations and self-liquidations whose filing and income period is from 1 April to 30 April 2021, both inclusive, so that, instead of entering in April, they will have to enter the debts in October. In this way, possible treasury tensions can be avoided that can be experienced by SMEs and self-employed people. The amount potentially postponed would amount to some EUR 2668 million, and the total number of people benefiting from the deferrals would be about 617 000 taxpayers, of whom 92 000 are in the hospitality and catering sector and 68 000 are in trade. Another tax measure that reflects the rule is the increase in the reduction in module taxation in the IRPF, from the current 5 % to 20 % on a general basis. However, for sectors most affected by measures taken to combat COVID, such as hospitality, trade and tourism, this reduction in module taxation will be 35 %. This measure shall apply, both in the fourth instalment payment of 2020 and in the first instalment payment of 2021. In fact, reductions of 20% on a general basis and 35% for tourism, hospitality and trade will also apply to the taxation of the simplified VAT regime for the 2020 quota and the first quarterly quota of 2021. The estimated amount of this reduction, ladies and gentlemen, in VAT and IRPF would be around EUR 117 million and the number of beneficiaries in the field of tourism and trade would be around 132 000 taxpayers. Other tax measures included in the standard incorporate the reduction in the number of tax periods affected by the waiver of the method of objective estimation of the IRPF, the extension envisaged for in-kind remuneration of the company dining service, applicable to the consumption of food, both of the delivery and of the take away, the deductibility of losses due to deterioration of claims arising from possible debtors' insolvency and the reduction of the time that the amounts owed by the tenants take into account the doubtful collection balance. Fourthly, the rule incorporates measures to promote employment. In particular, the exemptions provided for in the first additional provision of Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 from social measures in defence of employment are extended to certain economic sectors, in the following subsectors, which become overprotected sectors. I am referring to the wholesale trade in drinks, restaurants and food stalls, beverage establishments and also the activities of botanical gardens, zoos and nature reserves. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, will apply until the end of May following the new social agreement between trade unions and employers for all sectors, as I said, protected by the ERTE. In the field of social security, undertakings engaged in activities in the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors may apply a 50 % bonus of the social security contributions for the hiring of discontinuous fixed assets from April to May. The cost of this measure amounts to EUR 73 million. The last of the points incorporated in the standard sets out a series of regulatory measures that have to do with the flexibility of the requirements for the maintenance of regional incentives, which constitute substantial in-depth subsidies lost in order to alleviate these inter-territorial objectives. It is estimated that this measure will benefit around 615 business investment projects currently in force or in the maintenance of employment and investment phase, with an associated grant of more than €740 million, of which 40% is for the tourism sector. Finally, within this block of measures, a transitional regime is also established for areas of tourist influx by 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main measures contained in Royal Decree-Law 35/2020, which I submit to you for validation, because, as I have pointed out, there are many companies and many workers who will benefit. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, this crisis has hit tourism, hospitality and commerce very hard. Allow me an important reflection that we have learned from this health crisis. When we manage to have effective control of the pandemic, there will undoubtedly be a sharp upturn in economic activity, as we were able to see in the third quarter of 2020. It is therefore essential to make the vaccination process the highest priority in this country. Without health there will be no recovery. Therefore, we face 2021 with some certainties that allow us to have some hope and some optimism about the future. The first is the start of the vaccination process in many countries, which offers a horizon of hope to immunize a majority of the population, who will be able to travel safely. The second is that we know that the recovery of mobility will bring with it a rapid recovery of tourism and trade activity. Spain remains one of the preferred countries to travel, according to surveys. And the third certainty is that the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, has given an exemplary response to the economic and social crisis by approving the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and providing Spain with more than EUR 140 billion to address the transformation of the economy towards environmental sustainability and digitalisation. I do not intend to transfer self-congratulation in my words. We are fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many needs for tourism, hospitality and trade, and for their businesses and workers, so we continue to work with the sectors to adapt the safety net to the evolution of the pandemic, and we have done so since the beginning of March 2020. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with one final reflection. The Government of Spain will continue to take the necessary measures to preserve the productive structure and initiate recovery in the best possible conditions. As long as he is so eager to recover, we are working on two priorities from the Government. Firstly, in strengthening Spain's leadership within the European Union, the World Tourism Organization and the OECD to establish common and uniform criteria at global level, in order to ensure international mobility in a secure way, one of the greatest conditions for recovering tourism activity. I would like to highlight three initiatives in this area that we have developed. The first is the Conference of La Palma, which we celebrated on 30 November, where we have the collaboration of the World Tourism Organization and the World Tourism and Travel Council. In it we commit ourselves to strengthening public-private collaboration to ensure the resumption of safe international travel, betting on tests of origin, tourist corridors and contact tracing. The second initiative led by Spain in the field of OECD, announced by the President of the Government on 14 December, is to seek, agree and homogenise the conduct of pre-displacement COVID screening tests, the establishment of thresholds for the incidence of contagion from which such tests should be carried out, and to define which methodology we should use. We are also working, as you know, within the European Union on a common vaccination certificate. Vaccination is key and fundamental to re-opening borders safely and stimulating the recovery of tourism. This certificate provides governments with the confidence to open their borders securely, but also passengers with the confidence to travel. The second priority on which this Government is working is to strengthen Turespana's tourism promotion campaigns in the various issuing markets. Spain must be recognized as a safe destination and to regain the confidence of tourists it is essential that they have all the information about our destinations. In this sense, as you know, we have launched a new communication strategy called Travel Safe, with which we want to position the tourism brand Spain as a safe travel prescriber. The last reflection that we share - and with this I conclude this intervention - is that the evolution of the pandemic undoubtedly forces us to remain very alert to changes in circumstances and also to the needs of our productive fabric, as well as to take decisions and measures as quickly as possible and more effectively. This is the fundamental objective of the Royal Decree-Law which, as in the previous ones, wants to continue to accompany our companies and respond to their problems, minimizing the effects of the economic and health crisis caused by the pandemic. I would like to thank in a special way all the parliamentary groups that are going to support this royal decree-law at a time, no doubt, very complicated for tourism, commerce and hospitality, being next door and accompanying our companies and workers. To vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, is the best service we can do for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the setting of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. The royal decree-law that you have just explained contains insufficient measures to meet the catastrophic and suffocating situation of the tourist sector, the hospitality industry and the trade, all of which are really hit hard. Once again, as has been the case since the late recognition of the arrival of the coronavirus, COVID19, the Government is behind events and needs. They devoted themselves to publishing reports, but they have never responded in time to the reality of the facts. Remembering now the massive advertising campaign of 'We get stronger' is more than a sarcasm, it is a capital contempt for all those who live very distressed in the day-to-day. See if they arrived late, that your own Government excluded you from the Reconstruction Commission that was held here at the Congress of Deputies. Mrs Maroto, the sectors and subsectors to which the measures provided for in this rule are directed carry the entire pandemic by desperately calling for direct economic emergency support, as well as for exemptions or tax cuts. The Government has not heard before or now, and should have imitated what other countries like Spain do. From Foro Asturias we believe it is essential that social restrictions and curfews are accompanied by direct compensation so that tourism, hospitality, commerce and all those affected can survive, because the population is being asked to stay at home to stop the contagion and this entails an economic paralysis that must be adequately compensated for those suffering it. These measures can be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u69	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u70	Thank you very much. The position of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria was already made known to the Minister the Counsellor and the Director General of Tourism last December. In fact, Cantabria's requests are mostly those made by the sector, because the requests for tax reductions, lost-fund subsidies and more agility are known, the same in tourism as in hospitality and commerce. Within its competence, the Autonomous Community of Cantabria has made a great economic effort, of the largest in Spain in relative terms, to compensate for these shortcomings. But what is common to all, and also to all sectors, is the demand for more direct aid. Of course, this has difficulties, but the advantages are very great, as it is the best way to maintain the productive system and economic relations in general. Moreover, the risk of that sword of Damocles that the Government has with the requests for patrimonial responsibility is reduced, because it must be remembered that it also covers the normal functioning of public services, not only when there is fraud and negligence. The Government has to explore this route further, it is a very powerful and simple route, it has many advantages, although we know that it has drawbacks. Despite all the inconveniences and shortcomings of the decree, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when a member of the Government says that he is not going to fall into complacency, it is because, of course, he is being complacent, and that is the problem. There is nothing further from reality than this Government today. To think that these measures solve the problem is to completely ignore what is going on there. People are desperate. If the Administration closes a business, they have to solve that person's life problem automatically. Here four meet in an office that say what great social work we are doing, present it with great headlines and talk about billions, but it turns out that the one who has closed the bar in the corner doesn't get anything, that doesn't get anything. Watch the news, read the paper and hear the radio where they say they're going to give you 4,000 or 40,000 euros. Whatever they want, but he closes the bar and nothing gets to him. What does he live on then? That's what's going on. Then, to receive the help you need to fill out a large stack of papers, besides fulfilling this and the other and the other, and then you will already be given the money. And, during the day, how does he live? When your son comes home and tells them that tomorrow he has to take a book to school, they can answer that no, that in three months' time, the government doesn't give them any help that seems to have been approved. That's happening, I'm not making anything up. Go out on the street, ask the people who closed the business and see what they tell them and you'll see how they tell you this. Therefore, direct and immediate help is needed, that people have the right to live; that when you close your working environment you have to give it the solution, so that you continue to live while this lasts. Of course, to order vaccines, because yes, let's hope so, but, until the vaccines arrive, these people eat every day as well as the others. Therefore, less advertising and more direct aid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, also large ones, when the pandemic came we were made to believe that this was a three-month issue. Then, when the first wave ended, the president came out saying, "We are finished, we have defeated the virus. People asked for credits because they thought I could go back to work. However, that has not been the case. There are a lot of people who haven't taken the ERTE, a lot of people who haven't taken the activity out, there are people who haven't been discharged, and there are people who haven't taken the minimum vital income. And not only that, at the moment, after all the closures that have taken place, SMEs, above all, do not need credits or tax deferrals; they need direct aid. Everything is invented, as did Italy, as did France, as did Germany, as did the United Kingdom and as has the United States. Let's see if they realize they're not going to be able to pay either the credits or the postponements, that people can't fire staff because they don't have the money to fire them. When the aid comes, the business fabric, the jobs, will have been destroyed. If the business fabric is not destroyed, the economy will recover, but if there is no business fabric, it will take twice as many years. We're going to support this. For the Canary Islands it does not work, because this would have to be until December 31 of next year, or until October. But we will be in the negotiations because there are sectors that should be included, such as certain laundromats and agricultural activities linked to the tourism sector. A third issue is that they have taken advantage of this decree to change the Soil Law and to modify the licenses and reports of the municipalities for immigrant centres in the Canary Islands. Socialist assemblies and my party which are not opposed to immigration centres, but believe that they do not meet the conditions of habitability or are the right places. They have brought him from outside here, when that has to be done in coordination with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, not by decree. I am talking about places that are unworthy to welcome decently those human beings who come and, moreover, with the criterion against the municipalities. They have amended the Soil Law with this decree, and tried to hide it, but that is not done. We hope that it will be treated as a bill. We are going to support it, but we are going to put forward amendments to make it really useful for small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u76	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Today we are discussing here the validation of Royal Decree-Law 35/2020, a decree that again sets out in detail the reasons for the extraordinary and urgent need that justify the use of this instrument. In the current scenario, with a second state of alarm statement on its extension and a third wave of contagion, we believe that they are sufficient grounds for this extraordinary and urgent need to take urgent action in the sectors most punished, if possible, by the pandemic as a result of restrictions on mobility and curfews, such as tourism, hospitality and trade. These are measures that seek to alleviate the situation of businesses and self-employed people, especially those related to these activities to which I have just referred, to enable them to maintain their viability and not to be shut down as a result of the COVID. It is true that this decree is structured in four chapters, with sixteen articles, additional and final provisions. We will highlight all those measures that we find interesting, which are those aimed at leases of use other than housing, and which establish extraordinary measures aimed at leases of business premises; measures extending extraordinary measures in the field of contribution linked to the files of temporary regulation of employment, automatically extended until 31 January 2021 for certain activities of the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors that were not included in the Royal Decree-Law 30/2020, of Social Measures. On the other hand, of the six additional provisions of this decree, we would like to highlight the fifth, because the deadline for applying for the special unemployment benefit is extended, but we also see that there are a number of amendments that may not have so much to do with these sectors, as may be - as Mrs Oramas has just said - the amendment of the consolidated text of the Soil and Urban Rehabilitation Act, which does affect the autonomous communities. Measures to support the cultural and tax sector were also adopted and mechanisms for collaboration with other administrations establishing minimum living income were discussed. In addition, a zero VAT tax rate is established for intra-Community deliveries, imports and purchases of health products for in vitro diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 and for deliveries of vaccines authorised by the European Commission. These are measures - as I said - which we consider necessary, so our group is going to vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law. We understand that we must continue to take as many measures as necessary to alleviate these consequences, but we must also make sure that these aids finally arrive, because it does seem that they are slow to arrive or that there are people who, even today, have not yet charged some. We also want to make it clear that, despite the fact that we have said that the extraordinary and urgent need is justified, we are seeing that there is too much misuse of the figure of the royal decree-law, because it has already become a repeated use and a means of lawmaking, and I say this not only by this decree but by others. In addition, numerous COVID decrees have been adopted, rules that reform norms, which in turn reform previous ones, and this ultimately leads to regulatory chaos and even creates uncertainty. Self-employed people, businesses, workers, and women workers attend a continuous gallimacy, and they often do not know what is applicable to them. I think that we have to try to change it among all of us. Moreover, in many cases, these decrees are to be treated as draft legislation and remain unprocessed, remain in hibernation and continue to delay the possibility of making modifications to them, not to mention the consequences that these amendments could have as long as these decrees are already having their effect. Trying that these exceptions can be collected in other subsequent decrees and even in the processing as a bill, we will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the tourism sector and the hospitality sector in this country are no longer able, it will soon be a year since this pandemic that has so much taken away from us began. Our health care providers are faint and citizens are overwhelmed with feelings. On the one hand, they want to look to the future with hope because we already have a vaccine, although with a lot of problems to reach all the territories - there are many health care providers who will not be able to put their second dose in the time they need, and this is very important - and on the other hand, they are under-managed by this government, because it often comes late and sometimes it does not arrive. In the end, the citizens find that the person responsible for health in our country anticipates being a candidate for the Catalan elections and also makes use of his own ministry to start the campaign. So the citizens see only that the government is at something else. From my parliamentary group and from the first day of this health and economic crisis that we are living we have worked to propose measures to save lives and save jobs and we have made very difficult decisions, thinking only of that, to save lives and save jobs. Know, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue to do so. This government repeats again and again that it will not leave anyone behind, but that is not true, it has left behind the tourism sector and the hospitality sector, which are already looking at the abyss of closure with terror and despair. Those are the words that define the circumstances that these two sectors so important to our country are experiencing. Our hoteliers had to close their businesses in the confinement. In order to be able to return, they had to invest a great deal of money that they did not have in order to be able to take preventive measures against COVID, but, moreover, when they opened it to losses. Minister, they need help from the government. We have to say that the government is not helping decisively. It has brought measures, and we have passed them in other royal decrees, but they are not enough, they are very short. In September, Citizens presented an urgent inquiry to assess this absence of measures during a very large part of the pandemic. In the ensuing motion Citizens proposed to urge the Government to submit an urgent plan for aid to tourism and related sectors in the next quarter that would include specific aid for tourism, hospitality, trade and other activities, as they were considered to be insufficient so far. Although later than we would have liked, I am glad to know that the Government also came to that conclusion and brought this reinforcement plan to the hotel industry; a plan that, as I said, is insufficient. As in Citizens we are not going to abandon our hoteliers, our merchants and tourism entrepreneurs, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but, minister, the measures of this royal decree do not at all cover the real needs of these two sectors. Moratoriums and postponements are positive because they give a temporary break to thousands of cashless businesses, but they are ultimately delaying the problem and solving it. What the tourism and hotel sector needs, and which they have been demanding for a long time, are direct aids; they need a lifesaver, they need oxygen. It speaks of €62 billion in measures, but how much has actually arrived, as Navarra Suma's colleague said, at bars, restaurants, hotels? They need direct help. In Citizens we have been proposing measures that could now improve this royal decree-law: allow the postponement of the quota of the self-employed with a fall in the turnover of their businesses equal to or greater than 40%. That would be enough. Minister, do you think that a business that stops billing 40% of what it was billing the previous year can survive without direct aid? We have also proposed a specific training fund accessible to all workers in ERTE, and a flat rate of EUR 60 for self-employed people who resume their activity after this crisis, because when an activity is resumed a lot has been lost: customers have been lost, suppliers have been lost, debt capacity has been lost; it is very complicated. And, of course, there is also a need for in-depth lost aid. That's what they need; they need help, because they open up to losses. It can't be, they don't come to the end of the month. We've solved the ERTE problem, but when they get back, what business are they going to get back to? There you are, Minister. In tax matters, moreover, the moratorium provided for in this royal decree could have been much more ambitious, as we have proposed in Citizens. In this regard, we have just registered a parliamentary initiative which calls, among other things, for defining the benefits of this measure by the degree of the impact of the crisis and not by the size of the business. Not all companies are affected in the same way. We also propose extending the time limit for this measure to cover the period from the last quarter of 2020 to the first half of 2021. For all this we will ask that it be treated as a bill, because in Citizens we will continue to propose it over and over again until we achieve it. We proposed this many months ago and we will continue to propose such measures because we firmly believe that they can help the sector much more. Minister, we think now is the time. If we wait much longer we won't be able to save all those establishments. A third of the establishments have been closed in the hotel sector. Family investments have been lost, people have been in debt. One third of these companies have been lost; companies that will not return because they will not be able to have mechanisms to return. Minister, from here I'll reach out to you again. We have talked about this and we will continue to propose all the initiatives that we believe can contribute to this sector: tourism, hospitality and commerce. But, minister, think that direct aid will have to come. Many autonomous communities have made a great effort, including Andalusia, to help self-governing and tourism enterprises, but the Government cannot again delegate to the autonomous communities the decisions it has to make, because not all autonomous communities can give the same to their self-governing, to their tourism enterprises. It is fair that the central government should take measures for all Spaniards alike, for all hotel entrepreneurs alike. The worst part is that we all know that direct aid is going to have to come or it will be an irrecoverable sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, the government is well placed to place title - urgent measures to support the tourism sector, hospitality and trade - but unfortunately remains in the title, because it has little content. Galician hospitality has been completely closed since yesterday and the non-essential trade must drop the blind by six o'clock in the afternoon. All help is good, yes, but the ones contemplated here will not help to prevent many of those who still resist from closing down permanently. Postponing or reducing 50% of rent, postponing tax debts, tax reductions, bonus business quotas is fine, but what will they do if they have zero revenue because they cannot open their businesses? With these measures, hospitality and small shops will not resist the third wave of restrictions. The sector demands and needs direct and in-depth lost aid, as the BNG has claimed since the beginning of the pandemic both to the Spanish Government and to the Galician, which must also assume its responsibility. That is why we advocate a 70% coverage of the losses of establishments affected by the restrictions, and with this intention we put forward an amendment to shield in the General Budgets of the state a budget of 20 million euros for a plan to rescue the Galician hospitality which, unfortunately, was laid down by the government parties. Although insufficient, we will be voting logically in favour, but they are still in time to put in place a genuine aid plan that will enable the sector to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u81	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of this decree for sectors as affected, also in my country, such as hospitality, tourism, trade or cultural activities. However, sometimes the Government reminds me of that story that we have heard many times from Peter and the wolf. I am referring to the previous decree, that of European funds. They tell us that the wolf comes, that the right comes and that we have to approve this and they call us one day before, but one day they will be wrong because they have no majority, because most of us give it to others, we give it to those who call us the day before. The previous decree unequivocally smells of the decentralization and the snack and spooning of the large companies of IBEX and the consultants. What do we want in Compromís? We obviously want to amend it. We believe that this recovery plan for European funds must have four major pillars: first, a social shield like the one we built by the Botanical Government there, that leaves no one behind, that generates decent, quality and quantity work; second, a green economy; third, digitisation, not to rescue or waste those funds in the old economy, and above all, proximity, control, that the autonomous communities and municipalities can participate. It is they who know their reality, who have been in municipal politics we know that reality. Therefore, decisions do not have to be made only in the offices of Madrid, there has to be proximity, because if they do not end up winning the usual ones, delIBEX 35, which for a long time knew how this decree was going to come out. Proximity is effectiveness and proximity is democracy. We shall vote in favour of this decree, Minister. It seems insufficient to us, but it seems to us that any step forward is better than not taking any. We will also vote in favour of the decree-law of the European funds, but we will do so because there has been a promise from the Government that there will be more control, more transparency, more proximity and that the municipalities and the autonomous communities will also have that decision-making capacity. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u83	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u84	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law and, obviously, in favour of processing as a bill. That we are voting in favour, Minister, does that mean that we agree with the content? Yes, but we find it absolutely insufficient, and I tell you honestly. We've been constantly demanding it. Some of these measures are short, very short; some are late, very late. They are therefore measures which will alleviate the dramatic situation in all these sectors a little bit, but in no case are they sufficient. We ask you, and we have repeatedly asked you, to compare what other governments are doing in relation to certain sectors. The perception on the part of these sectors is that the Government of the State has transferred responsibility for restricting economic activity to the autonomous communities and that this has led to a disagreement. It transferred responsibility to the autonomous communities to finance the situations that are generated as a result of these measures, and this is impossible, the autonomous communities cannot do so even if they want to. These tax and social security measures are therefore absolutely insufficient. To put just a few examples, as regards the tax deferrals that can be made from April 1, and the previous ones? We've asked for it on different occasions. And the tax deferrals that exceed 30,000 euros? They will still have to have a complementary endorsement. At the moment, with the situation being experienced by self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, do you think it reasonable that, in order to postpone EUR 45,000, EUR 60,000 these self-employed and self-employed enterprises, which on most occasions cannot afford to pay their suppliers, they should go to the bank to ask for a bank guarantee? Therefore, be aware that they are not fixing this situation, be aware that the sectors are not satisfied with this. That is why we are going to table amendments in the parliamentary procedure. But, at the rate we are going, if they are approved, they will be approved when this is already resolved or, unfortunately, there is no solution. Therefore, rectify and extend these measures. However, I repeat, we will approve this royal decree-law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. I allow myself to begin this intervention by sharing with you what seems to me to be a conceptual error, not semantic, not less, I think silently, which is reflected in this royal decree-law and in so many others and in the whole debate, like today's, which has been aroused around how to avoid the economic disaster that in the slowdown of the monetary flow has provoked the sanitary standards to stop the infection by the COVID virus. I do not think we should really talk about aid packages. Ladies and gentlemen, aid is given to mitigate a risk, and in any case I believe that we are talking about what should properly be compensations, compensations to a great extent insufficient, compensations that the Spanish Government is pushing to try to repair the losses suffered by various sectors because of a health regulation produced by the Government and endorsed by the Courts - necessary, essential, oriented, as it should be, to the common good - and therefore whoever suffers the side effects of the application of this rule must be compensated, not helped. This week the Government has approved a temporary extension of the ERTE, a good news, as was its implementation. There is no doubt that a collapse has been avoided, even if there is not enough to prevent the enormous social crisis that we suffer, among other things because the Government has forgotten a very broad labour sector, and I am referring to the self-employed, who represent, as it is said, about three million people, about 15% of the total occupation; a group that is suffering more than any other with the restrictions that the pandemic has forced to adopt, since the total or temporary closures of the restoration, the hospitality, the culture mainly affect self-employed people. Once again, his Government had forgotten sovereignly, left the self-employed in the account, and for the most part, quotas were raised. ERTE, according to Moncloa data, affects more than 750 000 people, 5% of pre-pandemic wage earners, according to INE data. Among the self-employed, those who have seen their income cut by more than 70% are about 30%, according to the compensation mechanism authorised by the Generalitat. The Government has forgotten them, as if they did not exist or in any case forcing the Autonomous Communities to care for them, with their scarce resources and growing needs for health care, which, let us recall, rest exclusively on the Autonomous Communities; indeed, in the measures on rents, towing and inspired by the Honourable Conseller Ester Capella. Can a society demand that a party be sacrificed, for the benefit of all, and not compensate for it? I insist, make it up to her, not help her. They are the ones who help the entire society. It is with them that we have a huge moral debt, and the fair thing is that we compensate them for the required sacrifice imposed. Look, minister, we have said this since the beginning of the pandemic: these measures are totally inadequate and have been repeated by many of the players. The Government of the Government of Catalonia has approved this week a new package of direct compensations worth 618 million euros. At the end of each paragraph you quantified: count, please, in how many you equal or exceed 618 million. This is a new injection of resources, in addition to those already disbursed at the end of last year. These are the direct compensations claimed by the sector. The Government of the State disregards the co-responsibility of the administrations. With great efforts, the Generalitat is committed to the well-being of workers and puts all its tools to work to save the economy. We would like the Government of the State to take an example and put at least a similar effort, proportional to ours, because you arrive late and arrive with little. Where the principle of co-responsibility of administrations is not complied with, there is a shift from the costs of the pandemic to the productive fabric, i.e. to economic activity, so that the reaction capacity of companies is drowned. Ladies and gentlemen, they have given the sector measures so far away from their real needs that they have only highlighted their lack of knowledge and little involvement. You're late and you're bad. Finally, you should know that our vote will pursue the process of this royal decree-law as a bill. One of the main reasons is the inclusion of gambling activities and bets among the support measures; extemporaneous measure, laden with vignette in this royal decree and far removed from the urgent need to cover the evacuation of the royal decree-law. It is neither urgent nor much less necessary to give the support you intend to give to the online game. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u87	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u88	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last September, the Elcano Institute carried out a study on the positioning of Spain as a tourist destination between thirty-three countries - the minister knows it very well - which notes that the tourism brand Spain remains among the most powerful and valued worldwide and foresees a vigorous recovery once the pandemic is controlled. We are not facing a crisis in our sector, but a health crisis that has slowed the economy in Europe and the rest of the world. The closure of borders and the confinement forced by COVID-19 at European level has led to the halting of the entire hotel, hotel and commercial sector in general. But, unlike other countries in the European Union, the crisis has found Spain in an economic situation with little response capacity, mainly due to the neoliberal policies exercised by Mariano Rajoy's People's Party, which increased public debt from 69.9% in 2011 to 97.4% in 2018, which led to a continuous fall in real wage values, as a result of its labour reform - which must be repealed now -, with the consequent impoverishment of households, which decreased their saving capacity from 10.8% in 2011 to 4.9 % in 2018, leaving them without response capacity to adversities. As a result of their harmful privatization policies, our public services have been eroded, and I cannot fail to thank the health care workers for the effort they are making to expose their bodies to take care of us. However, despite the situation, this progressive government has created a social shield for the protection of all: workers, self-employed, SMEs, businesses. The ERTE, extended until 31 May, has proved to be the best tool to safeguard jobs and avoid the destruction of businesses. For the first time, benefits have been granted for the protection of self-employed persons, liquidity has been injected into companies with ICO funding lines, the health system has been strengthened and new rights have been created for citizens, such as minimum living income, among other measures. This battery of measures of the decree law is one more step to rescue one of the main engines of our economy, tourism, an extremely dependent sector of the market vessels, this market that he so much likes to invoke to the right with the mantra that it is good that the market is regulated alone, and, look where, now this social communist government is going out to its rescue. Let us hope that your ladies and gentlemen will be aware that, as we socialise losses, there must be a better sharing of benefits in the future. No formation of this House that puts the interests of the country ahead, and not its own, can oppose these measures, such as, for example, the reduction of fixed costs for leisure, hospitality or business premises, which involves the understanding between tenants and tenants with measures that protect both parties, as they provide for cost reductions or postponements for tenants and tax benefits for tenants or increase liquidity, with the possibility of having the finances deposited, and include support measures in the labour and social fields, bonuses between 75% and 85% of the business contributions to Social Security for companies with ERTE by workers who restart their activity and protect permanent fixed workers. Among other tax measures, it envisages the postponement of tax debts from the first quarter of 2021 to give liquidity to businesses and self-employed, increases the reduction of net yield per module up to 20% and modifies the minimum vital income, speeding up its management. Obviously, it does not give time for the breakdown of all the measures contained in the decree, but surely its lordships must know them, since they not only favour the tourism sector, but also other sectors, such as the cultural sector, which must be pampered and protected, because culture not only generates progress, it also makes us free citizens. Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands are the communities most affected by the situation. The new restrictions to stop the virus in Balearic Islands have led to a new closure of the hospitality sector, with which we can only show solidarity and share their concern. Certainly, the measures adopted today will contribute to a better situation, but we will continue to work for the implementation of more measures. The unprecedented impact that the pandemic has entailed must become an opportunity, an opportunity for the sector, reinforcing in the face of future challenges, with a clear and strong commitment to the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, but also to industrial and technological diversification, because it is not sensible, as we say on my land to lay all the eggs to the same cyst. Next Generation aid is a unique opportunity to drive this transformation, focusing on energy efficiency, lower carbon footprint, circular economy and sustainable construction. A new vision is needed, with a better redistribution of wealth and that it considers that they are its workers - kellys, waitresses, cooks - the best tool to get a useful industry not only for economic recovery, but also as part of a greater social justice, in short, to work for the country to be of all and for all, without excluding anyone. We will vote yes to the decree law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u90	Madam Minister, in your speech you spoke of the vaccine, a vaccine that is delayed because they do not know where the doses are. He talked about certainty. Where is the certainty, when the extension of the ERTE ends on May 31st? Where, when Article 7 speaks of measures ending on 31 January, in three days' time? Certitude, when every fifteen days each community changes the rules? He said social dialogue. Of this decree-law the representatives of the autonomous say that it leads to more frustration, comes late, is scarce and has had little sensitivity to the collective of the autonomous. The Hospitality in Catalonia states that in terms of rent it is a failure, it has not served at all, only to generate legal uncertainty in relation to the Royal Decree 34/2020 of the Generalitat; by the way, Catalan government that is putting the sector in an unsustainable situation. The Hospitality of Spain declares that it is insufficient, as it departs from the claimed. They criticise you for not fulfilling your commitment to the sector in a rescue plan that you need to survive and resist and express that the government is doing a lay-off, which means a death sentence of thousands of businesses, and warn you that it could disappear up to 40% of the sector. In this decree-law the rent reduction can only apply to 3% of the hotel shop. He talks about postponements, but the sector is anxious to see the arrival of those dates. What about those who are not on rent but who pay a mortgage for their business? They have also left many businesses out of trade at ERTE, with regard to the exemption from the social security quota, and they seem to be obviating that companies do not fire out of will but out of necessity. They forget that destinations with a strong dependence on foreign tourists or congress tourism will take a long time to recover, and I talk about Madrid, Barcelona and Malaga, among others. The Minister of Finance, who lied in this House until four times when she said that she would not raise taxes and that she has raised them, says of this decree that the goal is to provide liquidity. A lot of liquidity does not see hoteliers or merchants in postponing debts, especially because debts accumulate and have no income due to prohibitions and closures. They talk about billions of euros, and I hope that this government will look after them so that they can get to the sector, and it will not happen as in Andalusia, where, under the socialist government, the money of the unemployed was spent on cocaine and prostitutes. And he says that travel agencies will be able to use this funding, but it's that they can't be in debt anymore, they've been uninvoicing for ten months. Minister, this decree-law is a fake, and it is in the purest Sanchez and Iglesias style, because they are the kings of the lie. He talks about kindness, but the reality is he turns his back on millions of Spaniards. You know the forecast to close 100 thousand hotel establishments and 30% of the trade, the despair of travel agencies, tour guides, taxi drivers, hoteliers, night entertainment. Mrs Maroto, you spoke today of making decisions as quickly and effectively as possible. Ten months to draw up contingency plans, and the sector urgently needs to extend and make more flexible the ERTE, the exemption of autonomous quotas and social security for employees receiving ERTE, the reduction of VAT and the freezing of taxes, as well as compensation. Minister, what tourist model are you creating? Is the destruction of the Canary Islands? Because we are already seeing hotels in tourist areas full of illegal immigrants with an inclusive package paid for by the Spaniards, who are sent to the queues of hunger. Or the one who demonizes a sector you represent? The closure of business, the destruction of employment and the Spanish brand as a safe destination? The one about the layoffs and crumbs? In VOX we believe that work is essential, because it allows us to bring bread home for the family's livelihood, and they want bread, not crumbs. [[Applauds]] Spain must be protected, but it cannot be stopped, because that would cause serious consequences. The worker must be protected, but who is in the ICU is the business fabric, the one that creates employment and pays taxes. But, of course, how are we going to expect you to fight for life, when you like to press the death button? Euthanasia to tourism, commerce and hospitality, that's what they're doing. This government seems to want the Spanish people dependent,absorbed and captive, but the fifty-two of VOX and the millions of Spaniards will not allow it, so tell Sánchez, the one who is so good plagiarizing - we know for his thesis - that he copies countries such as Germany and France with direct compensations. Today we can say solidarity, but it is curious, because they keep attacking tourism, and his representative said in the previous speech that our economy cannot live from tourism. Curious, when in 2019 it contributed 12% of GDP and 12% of employment. And this is addressed to the government and to all communities where PP and Citizens rule. No public administration has the right to prohibit any economic activity, when they are not compensated for expropriating the right to work. [[Applauds]] Stop humiliating them. They don't help or rescue them, you're the ones who're sinking them. This crisis has put the Government in front of the mirror and in it we see its negligence reflected. Empty streets, life-long closed shops, in blind closed posters and death skeletons, because the situation is so difficult and such the degree of uncertainty that they cannot withstand the pressure and feel that there is no way out. Now they water their friendly media with 112 million, but for hospitality, commerce and tourism there is no money. For his media activists, for make-up for the Moncloa, to say that the rose cossifies and for salaries of friends in this government with more ministries, that's what there is. You see, it is a matter of priorities, and we already know what this Government is about, that of lies and poverty, rather than truth and prosperity. That is why, in view of this, let it soon come to rule VOX, because it is all we have left for common sense and good doing to be imposed on the institutions and for Spain to become a great nation again. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u91	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Almodóbar Barceló has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u92	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, may I say my first words of support and solidarity to the whole Spanish tourism sector, with our hoteliers, hoteliers, merchants, campsites, tourist apartments, travel agents, car rental, inland tourism, active tourism, snow, theme parks, transport of travellers, cruises, taxi sector and all the leisure offer, with its workers and our magnificent destinations. They're having a bad time. They are a fundamental and indispensable part, which has contributed to the tourist success of Spain, and, if protected, they will be able to contribute in a capital way to the recovery. [[Applauds]] That is what we understand in the People's Party and that is how we have shaped it with the presentation of up to sixteen non-law proposals, most of which, unfortunately, have been rejected by the bloc that supports the Government, which has unfairly despised and demonized them, when, for example, according to official data, only 2.3% of the contagion has been detected in the hotel industry, the controlled and safe alternative to other types of social gatherings. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish tourism is at the limit of its resistance. Mrs Maroto, is this really all that is capable of bringing here the Government of which was the most competitive country in the world, of the second world tourist power, to support its tourism? This decree should be accompanied by direct aid for the survival of our tourism, as others have done. After the first state of alarm, the sector asked for help and you took eighty days and six extensions of it to present something, always full of marketing from the Moncloa factory, but insufficient and erratic, as the whole sector called it. Minister, you - particularly you - hear them, yes, but do not listen to them. The worst summer of our tourist history came and while our entrepreneurs, the few who with great courage opened their establishments to try to save the season, and the destinations made a huge effort and investment to adapt to all the measures to offer security to their visitors, you went on vacation. In the meantime, the so-called unanticipated aid, more than 160 countries imposing restrictions, the mysterious cessation of a Secretary of State for Tourism to the WTO, or not, and the appointment of a new Secretary of State for Tourism, accused for four months of an alleged crime of corruption. In addition, a few weeks ago, after a tense wait and several more weeks, with discussions and strips and loosening within the Government itself, they announced this plan that we are being brought here today, again insufficient and deficient. And it is not that the People's Party, which also, has been described by absolutely the entire Spanish tourism sector as insufficient, unreal, full of media propaganda and lack of content. Look,, hoteliers, hoteliers, travel agencies, merchants, Spanish campers, bus transport, tourist apartments, Excel Tours or the Mesa del Turismo. [[shows several press clippings]] They've abandoned everyone. Look, 200,000 retail stores have dropped their blinds forcibly since March 2020; ten months after closing, 40% of hotels have not been able to reopen; 85,000 hospitality businesses have turned off their stoves and closed their bars forever; more than 60% of travel agencies remain closed, many will not be able to reopen. And they still don't know; it is that they have gone and are extending everything, hoping that the reservations and the passage of time will make them forget their insolvency. Never before had Spain seen so much disability in the blue bank. Today's data is a clear example. Minister, have you stepped on the streets of our tourist destinations? Have you walked through the most commercial streets of our cities? Have you not seen in the media the tears of many hoteliers who have closed their bars and restaurants forever? Are you not able to feel a minimum of empathy toward them? Over the last few months, the sector's main demands have been focused in a preferential way on the incorporation of direct aid. And it is that Spain, to date, where tourism represents, or represented, more than 13% of GDP, is the only country - which was the most competitive in the world - without such direct aid.Why don't you want to give direct aid? See, in France, tourism accounts for 7.4% of GDP: €18 billion plan, direct aid, consumer incentives, tax measures. Greece, 6.8% of GDP: EUR 25 billion, direct aid, tax cuts, consumer incentives. Italy, 5.9% of GDP: 5 billion to the sector. Germany, 4.4% of GDP: 25 billion. And the list continues, but Spain always queues. By the way, up to 14 European countries have reduced tourist VAT and have not gone badly. In Spain, his minister says that lowering VAT only improves the company's performance account. You're all wrong and you're all right? Look, with ERTE and ICO you don't save the sector; some ERTE that many still don't charge and some ICOs that you sell as aid, but that are loans that companies will have to pay, and most of them have been almost a year without income. Tourism has become 4% of GDP compared to 13% in 2019. They have done a clear discharge of duties. Since it helps a sector that is kept closed or with restrictions, it is taxing it, injecting it with money for it to endure; it saves expenses to those who do not have income. In our initiatives we have proposed everything and have rejected it, and we will continue to propose it. Call us if you want, and we'll sit down. Last Monday President Casado presented a plan to rescue the productive economy to inject direct aid to companies that help them to survive. You don't have a road map; you haven't had it, you haven't had it in health, you haven't had it in economics. You are the Government of Spain, you have an obligation to help the tourism sector, you do not transfer the problem to the autonomous communities and the municipalities, which are doing enough in the face of their abandonment of functions. You want common criteria out, but here seventeen different. The rain of millions accompanied by fireworks will not cover your incapacity, Minister. They don't fool anyone anymore, let alone the tourism sector. Do you, with that lack of interest in the most important sector of our economy, seek sectoral clean-up? Because, if so, it would make it clear that tourism is not a value-generating sector for the government. If he's been mistreated. Mr Ábalos said this on 16 March last year: tourism is an activity that we have to sacrifice; Mr Garzón; Dr Simón; his passivity and lack of leadership, Minister; President Sánchez himself blaming tourism for Spain being the country with the most people killed by COVID. If even the other day he made statements that alerted international markets, the President of the Government of Spain has made the best tourist campaign for our competitors. But the tourism sector never surrenders; it wants and will work very hard to re-place Spain as a world tourism leader. The question is if you want and you're going to do it. Today, the Spanish tourism sector is closer than ever. Sit with them, not just hear them, listen to them. Rolls Royce is a great brand, makes good cars, but if we drive a bad driver, who does not treat him with respect, with affection and delicacy, we run the risk of breaking the car or crashing it. Spain is a great brand, with an exceptional tourism sector, the best, but at the helm of the government we have bad drivers. I ask you before you finish, Minister, to supplement what little you have done with direct aid for our tourism already. Spain is at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u93	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Zamora has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rueda, I have to agree with you on something, because after the surreal situation that we are living in this country, with a pandemic, with Filomena and with an earthquake, all you need is to govern VOX! [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Minister, for your explanation and implementation of this royal decree, which contains measures - as you have stated - aimed at paying rents to provide solvency and liquidity; tax, labour and social security measures, and regulations, all with the priority of continuing to help large enterprises, self-employed, SMEs and the working class of the hospitality, trade and tourism sectors of our country. This is the first time I have intervened in this rostrum and for me it is a great responsibility to put my parliamentary group's voice in this very important royal decree, a royal decree that sets in motion urgent, necessary measures that go in the right direction to create the right incentives for recovery to be fair and effective, thus weaving a protection network that leaves no one behind. On Tuesday, the Council of Ministers approved the extension of the ERTs and the extension of the various aid schemes implemented for self-employed people, thus giving certainty to companies, workers and workers who, due to the new restrictions necessary to cope with the pandemic, suffer a fall in their income. In addition, it is important to note that these restrictions particularly affect the sectors to which this decree refers. I am not wrong to say that we all know some company, worker or worker who are suffering the consequences of these restrictions and, despite the differences we have, I am convinced that we are all aware that these measures are necessary. Therefore, our response must be immediate. It is an opportune time to demonstrate our responsibility and to benefit these sectors with the ambitious measures envisaged by this decree, measures worth more than €42 billion. What is not timely is precisely the opportunism of some opposition parties. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, opportunism, demagogy and irresponsibility. Opportunity because they are able to play with the difficult situation of these sectors without recognizing that the Government has already mobilised €51.5 billion of public aid to protect the tourism and commercial sector. [[Applauds]] Demagogic because when they ruled during the previous crisis they did nothing to protect, for example, trade, which is the sector in which I was and which I come from. But you don't have to go back to 2012, tell me what you're doing now in the communities where you rule.If you want, I can make you a comparison. Mrs Martínez - who I do not see right now - and Mr Almodóbar, for example, in Castile and León, where they jointly govern the People's Party and Citizens, have put in aid for 17 million euros, while in Castile-La Mancha, which has a population more or less similar - we could compare it - which governs the Socialist Party, we have aid already set in motion of 150 million euros; 17 million the People's Party and Citizens; and 150 million the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] And, third, irresponsibility. Look, they have set an example for European countries and they have forgotten to set an example for the communities where the People's Party governs, ladies and gentlemen, communities that have competence in tourism and trade, and therefore have competence to implement the direct aid they are seeking. To this end, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has provided funds to the Autonomous Communities to enable them to implement these mechanisms, for example, the 10 billion Euro React-EU programme. Madrid has received almost €1.3 billion. What has the Community of Madrid done? What did Mrs. Ayuso do with that money? Instead of building under-funded and over-cost macro-hospitals, they could have strengthened public health or, for example, developed proposals for aid to hospitality and commerce. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u95	One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent, as has been the case throughout the sitting. I ask you for the same silence as the rest of the House keeps for its spokespersons; please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u96	I can also tell you about Valencia, where there are already 400 billion for aid - I can also tell you about Valencia - a socialist government. [[Applauds]] But, going back to what was before, to the hospitals, we're going to do one more shade because - don't forget - despite having spent this, you continue to resort to private health, which no one is going to be surprised because that's their model. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I understand that with this data it is difficult to set an example for your management...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u97	One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mrs. Hoyo, I beg your silence, please. Continued.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u98	Thank you, President. I imagine it is difficult to set as an example the communities where they govern, so for you the only option in your intervention is opportunism and demagogy, because - let us not be fooled - that is what you have come to do today, to cover up your inefficient management in the communities where you govern, because I repeat to you that internal trade and tourism are autonomous and local competences. But tell it to the mayor of Madrid, who is more likely to erase a feminist mural, dragged by his rightwing partners, than to launch aid that benefits the hospitality and commerce. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, I welcome you to Social Democracy, because if something has taught us this pandemic, it is precisely that your liberal theory is invalid and does not allow you to protect the companies that you claim to be defending so much, and that your model does not believe in the aid that you are demanding so much, it does not believe that the state has to intervene, so I reiterate that I welcome you and I hope that this empirical demonstration will make you abandon your nightly policies that always benefit them. [[rumors]] As a socialist, I am very proud of the measures put in place by the various progressive governments, but always being aware of the importance of co-governance in order to complement these measures properly and to reach those who really need it. And, of course, I would like to recognize those who with great effort continue to raise the blind every day, to the real early Spain, and send them a clear message from here, from this rostrum: the Socialist Parliamentary Group will continue to work to protect them. I'm done, Mr. President. The first time I sat in my seat, in July 2019, I felt great pride and the tremendous responsibility to defend and work in order to change the lives of those we represent here, but I have to admit that here too I have felt shame with some populist interventions that served clear partisan interests; today I have seen some of them. I only hope that the trade, hospitality and tourism sector today will not have to feel that shame because some parties do not support this necessary royal decree. Finally, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that are going to support this necessary royal decree, in particular the PNV. Thank you very much for supporting this royal decree, for this dialogue we have had, and thank you very much also for supporting the previous royal decree. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u99	Thank you so much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 37/2020, OF 22 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO COMBAT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS IN THE FIELD OF LIVING AND TRANSPORT. [[File number 130/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u100	We turn to the next point, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 of 22 December, of urgent measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability in the field of housing and transport. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I am presenting to this House for validation the actual decree-law of urgent measures to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability in the field of housing and transport, following its adoption by the Council of Ministers on 22 December. It is structured into three chapters and consists of three articles, four additional provisions, one transitional provision, two final provisions and three annexes. Housing measures are covered in the first chapter. For us, housing policy is a key part of the welfare state, and that is why we have been taking structural measures since we arrived at the Government. We are now experiencing an unprecedented health crisis, with great affection for the economy, in which we from the Government have chosen not to leave anyone behind, and housing is certainly part of that social shield, because in the midst of the pandemic we cannot allow people to stay on the street without a housing solution. We have also been implementing various initiatives and programmes so that the autonomous communities and cities of Ceuta and Melilla can handle in an agile and extraordinary way the aid that is aimed at safeguarding the right to decent and adequate housing. We have therefore set ourselves the following objectives: firstly, to respond to the situation of vulnerability; secondly, to design balancing measures between tenants and tenants and, thirdly, to achieve the objectives pursued with sufficient resources for the public coffers. Thus, this royal decree-law is added to everything we have already done and allows for the incorporation of new protection measures for vulnerable households facing eviction procedures from their habitual housing. It also introduces a number of improvements to ensure coordinated action by the competent judicial bodies and social services. In this sense, Chapter I introduces an extraordinary modification for a time of special difficulty. In this way, it seeks to preserve the constitutional right to housing to protect the most vulnerable families and people, but also to protect the rights of third parties, such as tenants. It is a rule that strengthens judicial guarantees and also commits the rest of public administrations in the area of housing. Thus, by means of this rule and for those tenants of housing in a vulnerable situation, on an exceptional basis and only for the duration of the state of alarm, in the procedures of eviction or launching leases, whether or not the process was previously suspended, the tenant may request an incident of extraordinary suspension of eviction or launching before the court because he is in a situation of economic vulnerability that makes it impossible for him to face up to the payment of rents or find a housing alternative for himself and for the people with whom he lives. In addition, situations of social and economic vulnerability that can be claimed for the suspension of the eviction procedure and the launchings that affect vulnerable households without housing alternatives are widened. In particular, these situations extend to situations not necessarily directly derived from the effects of the expansion of COVID-19, and always accrediting these situations of economic vulnerability as set out in Article 5 of Royal Decree-Law 11/2020. In addition, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the measure, the court must communicate to the competent social services, who will have to assess the situation of vulnerability of the lessee, and in the case of the lessor even, and make a proposal on the measures to be taken by the competent administration. The social services report must be submitted within a maximum of 10 days to the court. The suspension of the launch will be maintained for as long as necessary to implement the appropriate social measures, which must allow a housing solution that guarantees a decent housing and always within the period of the state of alarm. Finally, it should be noted that, with the aim of designing balancing measures between tenants and tenants, this royal decree-law has regulated that if the housing alternative is not given within three months of the issuance of the Social Services report, the tenants will be entitled to claim financial compensation for the damage caused. This compensation shall take effect only on suspensions made after the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law. This compensation, as set out in the normative text, shall consist of the average value corresponding to a rental of housing in the environment in which the property is located, determined from the reference indices of the rental price of housing or other objective references representative of the rental market, plus the corresponding costs of the housing that the lessor believes to have assumed for the period between the suspension and the time at which the suspension will be agreed upon by the court or at the end of the state of alarm. This request for compensation may be made up to one month after the declared state of alarm. On the other hand, the second assumption contemplated in this royal decree-law refers to the suspension of eviction or launching procedures that are not contemplated in the previous case, i.e. those that have no title. This Royal Decree-Law is limited to civil proceedings. However, I cannot fail to mention that Royal Decree-Law 1/2021, pending its validation, has also been extended to include criminal proceedings, provided that they meet the necessary requirements. This will be the subject of a forthcoming debate and, if appropriate, its validation, but is not covered by this royal decree-law. The regulation contained in the royal decree-law that we submit to validation today has an extraordinary and temporary character, exclusively as long as the state of alarm lasts and only for the assumptions detailed below. Where the owners of the real estate are natural or legal persons holding more than 10 dwellings. In addition, it is essential that a person living in an untitled dwelling be a dependent person, a victim of violence against a woman, or a person in charge of a dependent person or a minor who is living in the same dwelling, and that he/she must prove the situation of economic vulnerability described in article 5 of Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, with the documentation provided for in article 6 of the Royal Decree-Law. In these cases, it is important to note and stress that it will be the judge who, after receiving the claim of economic vulnerability, will make the weighted and proportional assessment of the particular case and will have the power to suspend the launch and will request the competent social services to report it within a maximum of fifteen days before the court. The competent social services will have to assess the situation of economic vulnerability and identify the measures to be implemented by the competent administration. Once the situation of economic vulnerability of the person living in the house has been established and all other competing circumstances have been considered by the judge, the judge shall issue an order, agreeing, where appropriate, the suspension until the implementation of the measures established by the Social Services and, at most, for the time remaining until the end of the state of alarm. However, if the applicant does not acknowledge the economic vulnerability, is not among the persons entitled to request the suspension or is not subject to any of the circumstances envisaged, the judge shall agree on the continuation of the proceedings. As I have mentioned above, these assumptions are limited in time and very exceptional, since this suspension will never be applied by the judge when the dwelling is the habitual residence or second residence of a natural person owner, regardless of the number of dwellings that he or she may own. Where it has been produced in an immovable property owned by a legal person, as well as a physical person, following the amendment of Royal Decree-Law 1/2021, which has assigned it for any valid title in right to a natural person who has in it his habitual domicile or second duly accredited residence. If entry or stay in the property is a result of crime, in particular by intimidation or violence against persons. Where there are reasonable indications that housing is being used for illicit activities. Where entry or stay has occurred in public or private property intended for social housing and the housing has already been allocated to an applicant by the Administration or entity managing that housing. And finally, if the entry into the property has occurred after the entry into force of this royal decree-law. Finally, and in order to take account of the situation of the owner and to maintain a balance with these measures, if the housing alternative is not given within three months of the issue of the social services report, the owner will be entitled to claim compensation for the damage caused, and provided that he proves that the suspension of the launch has caused him economic damage. This compensation will only affect those suspensions that take place after the entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law. The compensation shall have the same characteristics as those described above. Therefore, this compensation will always be at the request of the owner, provided that it demonstrates the economic damage, which has elapsed three months since the issue of the social services report without housing alternative and may be submitted up to one month after the validity of the declared state of alarm. To conclude with this part of housing, and in order to strengthen the instruments with which social services have to deal with these situations, the additional provisions regulate the possibility of applying the aid regulated in the programmes of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021, all without prejudice to the authorisation of other autonomous or local aid programmes that can be established for this same purpose. I must point out that, since the Basque Country and Navarre are not in the State Housing Plan, we will establish the necessary mechanisms in the royal decree of development of this royal decree-law that we are preparing. In these two cases it would be linked to the quota or concert, as we already did with the additional resources that we enabled in 2020 to alleviate the COVID-19 and that had the same conditioning: to be linked to the State Housing Plan. In addition, in order to ensure maximum inter-administrative collaboration and effectiveness of the measures adopted, it is stipulated that the Autonomous Communities shall report on a monthly basis to the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, as responsible for the Government's policies on social welfare, family, child protection, cohesion and care for dependent or disabled persons, on the communications received, the reports issued, the deadline for the issuance of such reports and the measures taken by the social services. With regard to Chapter II of the Royal Decree-Law, which contains transport measures, the terms of a new economic balance of public service management contracts for long distance bus transport of State competence are approved. This is because they have been substantially altered since the beginning of the pandemic. This is an exceptional measure to ensure the viability of these services, which are essential for citizens and constitute a capillary transport network that facilitates the mobility of the most needy sectors of society. The first rebalancing of these contracts was carried out under Royal Decree-Law 26/2020, economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID-19 on transport and housing, covering the period corresponding to the first state of alarm. When the first state of alarm ended, the demand for these services was slowly recovering to levels of 50 % compared to the demand for the equivalent period 2019. However, during August 2020 there was already a further drop in demand at levels of 35-40 % compared to the equivalent period of the previous year, which, far from resuming, remained stagnant. Following the declaration of the new state of alarm, which has allowed the autonomous communities to close their territories, intra-Community mobility, which is typical of State competition contracts, has been further restricted. This has led to a further drop in demand, which is now around 23% of the usual on these dates. With this measure, it is intended that, once the crisis has been overcome and mobility restrictions have been lifted, transport companies may have sufficient solvency to continue to provide these services and thus preserve the public transport system in our country. This will provide the necessary levels to meet the demand for people's mobility, which is a basic condition of their quality of life and of their access to basic public social services and other essential services. The Royal Decree-Law establishes an agile procedure to economically balance these contracts and to avoid to the maximum the additional administrative and social burdens that could, in some cases, entail, even, the contractual waiver and consequent abandonment of the public service, including mechanisms to advance the final compensation. The period considered for carrying out the rebalancing of contracts shall be the period between the completion of the first state of alarm and 30 June 2021. The possible imbalance resulting from the reduction in supply and demand for these services will be more or less charged depending on the structure of the cost of the contract concerned and on the measures taken by the company to alleviate, to the extent possible, liquidity difficulties. Finally, Chapter III of the Royal Decree-Law, which contains measures for the protection of consumers and users. The consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws is amended. In particular, Article 21 is amended in relation to the verification regime and customer service services. Thus, in the event that the employer makes a telephone line available to consumers and users for the purpose of communicating with them in connection with the contract concluded, the use of such a line may not entail a cost to the consumer and user in excess of the cost of a call to a standard geographical fixed telephone line or'mobile. Certain requirements for these services are also imposed when they are provided in relation to basic sectors of general interest. In addition, Article 49 is amended in relation to the system of infringements in the field of consumer and user protection. On the one hand, the breach of obligations in relation to customer service services is introduced as a type of infringement. Furthermore, the introduction of unfair clauses in contracts and the non-removal of their effects are added as a type of infringement, since they are declared abusive and therefore null and void. Finally, with the aim of ensuring the provision of water, electricity and natural gas to vulnerable consumers, especially in the current circumstances, existing protection measures are strengthened through the fourth additional provision, which takes measures to effectively consolidate the protection of vulnerable consumers, in line with the effective framework developed to identify and structurally reduce the phenomenon of energy poverty. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. After analysing the situation and ratifying the reasons for necessity and urgency required by the Constitution, the Government, as you know, proceeded in the Council of Ministers on 22 December to the adoption of this royal decree-law and, consequently, I ask this House to vote in favour of its validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. I will reject with my vote the validation of this royal decree-law that you have just presented, because it does not respond to the needs of housing policy, so let me remind you that you have also been carrying it as a minister for more than two and a half years, a time when you have been able to use the State Official Gazette - that is, the most powerful tool - more accurately and efficiently to resolve some of the housing deficiencies and problems that the Government itself recognizes in its explanatory statement. Mr Ábalos, both the rule adopted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December and the one adopted just eight days ago, and which, in order to generate surprise and amazement, substantially modify the one that is being validated today, highlight a way to legislate quickly, running and with pirouettes, which are a useless attempt to correct the warnings about the flagrant unconstitutionality in a matter that affects thousands of small owners of rental houses, whose associations state that the government's last move involves the legalization of illegal occupation and that it also generates legal uncertainty, which is the last thing we can expect from a Spain that is suffering from a historical crisis. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u105	Thank you very much. Another royal decree-law that is explained by the circumstances caused by the pandemic, which comes to extend other previous housing issues, but in fact it must be understood as a transitional measure motivated by a force majeure. A larger force that affects housing to a large extent, where we drag a national problem before the pandemic. That is why we urgently need to move forward with the housing law, a law that ensures that it is not necessary to resort to restricting the rights of citizens with regard to freely adopted contracts; a law that should, in my view, revolve around two main concepts: public housing park and a package of tax changes affecting private individuals and private enterprises. As far as transport is concerned, this royal decree-law is also very timely in a model of public service management that has proved very favourable to citizens, an example of public-private collaboration that is so distasteful to some. The rebalancing of concessions is a very appropriate instrument at this time, and in this mechanism it is not always necessary to make an economic disbursement - as is well known - although the formulas of this decree seem to us correct. And in the area of water and energy consumption - I repeat the same thing I said in the previous decree talking about tourism and trade - I believe that the most effective thing is the aid that goes directly to the citizens' pocket. It's simpler, it's more efficient and the economy in general ends up feeling much less. However, we will vote in favour of validation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u107	Thank you, President. We are glad that the royal decree brings the paralysis of the evictions until the state of alarm lasts; in fact, we were here with you debating an inquiry and a subsequent motion in which we asked you precisely this. But we are concerned about the part of compensation to owners after three months in the case of families without housing alternatives. What are we worried about? Because this compensation is going to go to the big owners, why? Because they are the ones with the most floors and they are the ones with the people hired to be able to present all the paperwork that this compensation requires. The logic of compensating the big owners... It seems that the minister is not very attentive. [[Pause]] Thank you. He said that the logic of compensating the big owners, which we believe is behind the idea of compensation, is the same one that moves the People's Group to appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Catalan law on rental regulation. Behind this resource there are two ideas: to guarantee the interests of the real estate lobby and to go against the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. Nothing new in the People's Party, but we are surprised that the most progressive government in history incorporates in this royal decree - which was not bad - compensation to the great owners. Of course, there are two questions here: the first is what the Constitutional Court will do. It responds quickly: surely the Constitutional Court has not only accepted the People's Party's appeal, but will give it reason and legislate against the interests of simple people. And the other question, which concerns us, is what the government will do, is it going to push for an alternative regulation from here in the future housing law, as it has promised us several times, to regulate rents? Because now that we are campaigning in Catalonia and everyone promises, the PSC voted against the law on rental regulation in the Catalan Parliament, it was independence that brought it forward, it was independence that guaranteed it, and the commons and sovereignism... - they say not -; independence and sovereignism, it serves me. What will you, comrades of Podemos, do in view of this situation, are you going to squeeze to regulate the rents? [[The Lord]] Look, we learned a lesson from this. They often tell us in the colloquial language - they will allow me - that we are freaked out because we always say on the independentist left that rights are earned by disobeying; well, with this Constitutional Court, and it seems that the ruling party, rights in Catalonia have to be won on the street, because it seems that we are going to fall down a law approved by the Catalan Parliament. So all we have to do is call mobilization and disobedience. At six o'clock this afternoon, there is a mobilization to protect the rights of all, which is what they have adopted in the Catalan Parliament. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u109	Thank you, President. I will announce in that rostrum the vote in favour of our Parliamentary Group, Euskal Herria Bildu, to the royal decree that concerns us now, above all and fundamentally for what it has to do with housing and a debate that we have been dragging for months. In fact, it provoked an amendment within the debate of the General Budgets of the State by our group, together with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, União Podemos and some other group, which planned to act on this matter relating to evictions, the rental housing market, the moratorium on mortgages or the cuts in electricity and water supplies that were and are being produced. But, having said this, once we have announced our affirmative vote, we would do well not to think that with this we have reached Ithaca because, in the end, we are only at the beginning of a path and it is the reality that pushes us to take more determined and firmer steps than we are currently taking. I mentioned it in the previous debate and I bring it back here again. When organizations such as Intermón Oxfam, in reports that the United Nations itself recognizes as true and reliable, are pointing out that there are more than 5.1 million people in the Spanish State who are in poverty; when it is telling us that from March until now this poverty bag has been increased by 800 000 people; when it is pointed out that there are, therefore, more than 5.1 million people in the Spanish State who have to live with annual amounts of less than 6000 euros, that is, less than 500 euros per month, what is being shown to us is a dantec scenario for millions of people and measures like these, even when they go in the right direction - that is why we are going to support them - they are still unable to respond to all the problems they face. We believe, as has already been said by one of the people before me, that a housing law must already be made, that the debate that has been dragging for years or decades on whether the subjective right to housing is materializable or not is necessary, and that is where this Government has to press the accelerator because, if not, reality will pass over it. Should we stop the evictions now? Yes, of course, but unfortunately, today we still see scenes of evictions in our streets and in our villages, in those of Euskal Herria and probably also in those of the Spanish State. Should we avoid cuts in electricity and water supplies? Of course, there is no need for such an adverse weather reality as that experienced in Madrid and elsewhere in the Spanish State to know that there are hundreds of thousands of people who have enormous difficulties in paying for electricity and water. And these same people see with enormous atony how this government still today does not decide to do what it could do to curb the speculative interest of oligopolies, of the companies that control the oligopolies of the energy market, who decide at adverse times for citizens, both in terms of climate and economic, to continue to increase their profit accounts at the expense of people's pockets and their needs to have a dignified life. There, therefore, too, much further progress needs to be made, as in all that has to do with the housing market, with rental policies. The maximum price must be limited. They have been told by civil society, told by the Llogaters Union and told by other people and they are right, we have to stop at the maximum price of rent to prevent that speculative wheel from taking people's rights ahead. We believe that this royal decree, although it points to interesting or positive initiatives, also has gaps or spaces that invite us, at least, to reflect on what remains to be done to avoid it. Because the extension is until 9 May, but nothing indicates that on 10 May, the situation of those 5.1 million people and others that we could add up will be significantly better, will be enough to guarantee a decent life in terms of habitability, have a roof and have resources. Therefore, there is a first problem or a new sword of Damocles that puts us with that temporary limitation on May 9. But there is more, in the rent moratorium there is one problem and it is that, as it is written, what is said is that what has not been paid so far, will be returned in a fractional way for a minimum of three years. And that's not bad, but there's a pickle and the pickle says: but always within the duration of the contract. Of course, if the contract is annual, those three years as a temporary framework disappear and we have to pay in that year all that we have not paid before. And that, if we know that on May 10 the economic reality is not going to be so good that we can forget all this, puts a lot of people back in a situation of extreme weakness. In any case, the great Achilles heel of this royal decree, which should be tried to improve through amendments, is the moratorium on mortgages because they are not extended and because the mortgage, that kind of unbreakable marriage with the banks - not out of self-will, in this case by the imposed will of the banks - will continue to be a serious and painful reality for hundreds of thousands of people, who first suffered the abusive clauses, now have to suffer mortgages that, even if not subject to the abusive clauses, remain difficult to sustain for an increasingly impoverished population.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u111	Thank you very much, President. The most relevant issue from our point of view and from a legislative policy perspective raised by Royal Decree-Law 37/2020, without prejudice to other issues such as road passenger transport, concerns the treatment to be given to economically vulnerable families with minors or disabled persons in their care, subject to eviction of housing, so that they do not remain on the street in a pandemic situation, combining it with the treatment of the constitutional principle that no one may be deprived of their property and rights but for justified reasons of public utility or social interest through appropriate compensation. In short, Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 addresses the co-honesting of constitutional mandates to the enjoyment of decent and adequate housing, to the protection of the family, children, persons with disabilities and women victims of violence, to the protection of property and their social function and to the protection of health, which in a pandemic scenario calls for the availability at all times of housing solutions, as well as energy and water supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 addresses this plurality of perspectives regarding the most vulnerable in a scenario of economic crisis and unemployment, shortage of social housing and growing lack of affordability of housing in the private market. On the other hand, the Royal Decree is also implemented within the framework of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which has ratified the use of various public instruments of administrative intervention on housing ownership in the light of its housing use and social function. The Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 also passes the policy of continuing the gradual reception in the State order of pronouncements, recommendations and opinions of international treaty monitoring committees signed by the Spanish State that protect fundamental rights, such as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations with regard to the right to decent housing and the requirements of evictions when they affect persons in a vulnerable situation, in respect of whom it calls for the realization of all possible public efforts using all available resources, including in cases of untitled occupation, to which already some judgement, such as that of section 16 of the Madrid Provincial Court, No. 613/2018 of 11 September, considers it to be applicable in a criminal procedure, if there is a state of necessity in balancing the protection of minors, persons with disabilities or of the same family. And to that same proactive activity of the public authorities to prevent the increase of homeless people, the European Parliament added last week to the prices of the rental market, which is constantly growing in relation to the income of those who demand it. However, ladies and gentlemen, the favourable consideration given by the Royal Decree-Law to families with dependent minors and disabled persons in need in launching proceedings, giving the judge the power to suspend them until the Public Administration provides them with an occupational alternative and, if this does not materialize, until the state of alarm and the pandemic ends, is exchanged in unfavourable consideration of Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 in several aspects. First, by attributing to the autonomous communities the economic cost of these public policies and without leaving it pointed out in the same rule with force of law that would be borne by the State. In addition, the Autonomous Communities are called for and imposed on them an almost hierarchical monthly control, consisting of the transmission of all reports issued, the deadline for issuance and the social measures adopted, and a model standardized by the Ministry. Nor do we agree that the guarantee of the supply of water and energy to vulnerable consumers who cannot prove the ownership of the contract can be credited by private alternative resources outside the competent social services because of the territory. Nor can we consider favourably that this royal decree-law has been amended in substantial respects before its validation in this House by another royal decree - law of later date and out of the scope, for the time being, of its validation debate. Finally, we also do not deserve a favourable consideration from this royal decree that part of the cost of the housing solution - in its entirety in certain cases - should be gravitated over the owner of the housing that is intended to be launched. This is a measure that we do not share from the point of view of legislative policy. The Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party shares and supports a public policy on families in need so that they do not remain on the streets in situations of pandemic, but we cannot share that the housing alternative falls on those who claim the recovery of their property or rights, since this is, in our view, the best performance of the corresponding compensation for having been deprived of those rights for justified reasons of public utility or social interest, as determined by the best understanding of article 33.4 of the Constitution. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u112	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u113	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having here today affects the people who need us most. It is impossible to deny that many families, after losing their jobs, have not had sufficient resources to cope with their rents. Surely this is one of the hardest and cruelest faces left by the pandemic in social matters. That is why this royal decree-law does what it does is to extend the extraordinary housing measures that we have already agreed in the first state of alarm. These are exceptional measures, which we already support at that time and which we are going to support today, because we are aware that we are living in an exceptional situation caused by this unfortunate pandemic; because we are aware that there are people who are having a very bad time, with an ERTE, in unemployment, with their business closed, without being able to continue paying the rent as they were doing, and that they cannot find employment. These people cannot be blamed for all these circumstances. However, what highlights this situation is the failure of employment, housing and public transfers policies to families in Spain. I'm going to focus on the house. The housing policies that have developed are terrible, we just have to see the shortage of public housing that we have in our country, the difficulties that families have in reaching the end of the month and paying their rents, the difficulties that young people have in accessing housing and our unfortunate failure with the infra-habitation and chabolism that continue to exist in our country. The magic solution that United Podemos and other parties in this Chamber want to give is to limit rental prices and reduce legal certainty to the owners. In this way, according to them, housing prices will fall and everyone will have access to affordable housing. However, most of the people we are here know that these policies are against - and it has been shown - an improvement in what public housing policies are. Its effect is expected to be the opposite. In Citizens we bet to create a housing park, through public-private collaboration, that will help to cool market prices in some cities; address an action plan to deal with chabolism and infra-housing; expedite evictions as a result of an occupation, to provide legal certainty to the owners. We have a legitimate right, that of housing, but it cannot be guaranteed at the cost of denying another, which is the right of ownership. We are all making sacrifices, but we cannot legislate against a part of the population, which is what this government has in mind. Let's talk about evictions. The only public policy in this area that the Government currently has in its portfolio is to avoid evictions and incite occupations to ensure access to accessible housing. This isn't politics, this is kicking forward and looking away. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, you have done tricks again. They will amend this royal decree-law, which has acceptable terms, to reintroduce their ideological prebendas. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to turn a good and continuous rule, which is what we are going to vote on today, into an attack on legal certainty and private property. We do not know what kind of revelation they have had during this Christmas, but what they have done is to delete any reference to the commission of an offence for entry or stay in a property, leaving the crimes of usurpation without violence as an acceptable assumption. That is why, just as I am announcing that today we are going to vote in favour of this decree, because we are aware of the exceptionality and vulnerability situation in which many families find themselves, we are not making any progress on the amendment that will be introduced by Royal Decree 1/2021, which will soon come to this House. And we will say no, not because we are alien to the complex situations to which many people who do not have housing can sometimes be forced, who cannot pay their rent and who unfortunately see that they have had to resort to that in order to gain access to another, because of the disastrous management that we have of housing policy, but because of the message that is conveyed by the Government. The solution is: busy what you can that I will already look elsewhere? Is this the government's social public policy on housing? Can you imagine that, in the face of a situation of necessity, families who cannot feed their children are told by a government: To commit a theft, that nothing happens, that we are going to look elsewhere? It is absurd, but this is what seems to be claimed by a part of the government. And this, I say again, is not a solution, it is a very pernicious kick forward and, in this case, they will have us in front of them. In short, with regard to this Decree 37/2020, we will support it because we believe that the situation in which we find ourselves is exceptional and because we have very clearly the need to support vulnerable families who cannot pay their rents. In addition, this decree has a number of specific measures for the transport sector which is currently being called for. But I repeat again that the amendment introduced by Royal Decree 1/2021 is a scam and we will not support it. I insist, from the government a real decree of vulnerable consumers is perverted and all they do is generate legal insecurity that we are not going to allow. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop playing tricks, be serious, rigorous, because we are talking about the right to decent housing. Let us devise solutions, but real and useful solutions: a good housing law, because we soon have the opportunity to improve this harmful housing policy; a good national housing plan, because so far we have not had effective solutions, if not, there would not be so many families in the current situation in which we are in. We are in favour, from Citizens, of offering housing alternatives to vulnerable families, but we cannot allow the pillars of our State, our social and economic model to be put at risk for this. That is why, with regard to this amendment, I ask you to rectify it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u115	Thank you, Madam President. The preamble to this royal decree begins by warning of the need for state legislation on housing, and the BNG warns that we are not going to accompany the centralizing drift in which this government is increasingly immersed, supposedly the most progressive in history. The house is the jurisdiction of Galicia. More funding, collaboration and coordination is needed; what is not needed is precisely more centralisation. But, indeed, we are immersed in a social and economic crisis that needs urgent measures to prevent vulnerable people from ending up homeless because they cannot afford it. We therefore agree on the need to ban evictions without a housing alternative. But it is also necessary to work with the autonomous communities to increase the number of social housing or aid that prevents these situations from occurring, because an established right, such as the right to housing, is effectively guaranteed. In transport we agree that the huge reduction in demand has created an imbalance that needs to be corrected, but let us think that companies have also made a reduction in frequencies against any health logic. Therefore, if compensation is available, all lines and frequencies should be repositioned as normality recovers. In the last block, they aim to ensure access to information and complaint in an accessible and telematic way at this time of mobility restrictions. It may seem reasonable, but it should also be warned that this cannot be a definitive alternative. Restrictions will pass and companies must continue to facilitate face-to-face alternatives, because we all know of the abusive use that large companies - and an example are precisely those of telecommunications - make of telephone care. And this situation - we also want to warn you - cannot be used in any way to cut rights. In short, we will support this decree, although we see some elements that we do not like, because we understand that its fundamental objective is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u117	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of this royal decree-law, as well as its processing as a bill. We are going to support it, although we have some considerations to make and some of these considerations are going to be moved to amendments for processing. In relation to housing issues, we share the objective of caring for the most vulnerable people and families with a complicated situation. What happens is that, as in other aspects of housing, the minister tends to shift the cost of the solution to the private part, which one may think is the large housing holders, are the large corporations, but it is nothing other than the abandonment of the functions of the administration itself. The inability of the Administration to deal with certain situations transfers the cost of its decisions to certain areas, and this, in the short and long term, creates a distortion in the functioning of the market and it is not believed that this dysfunction has a zero effect on the functioning of the market. I therefore say this to you here and to you on other occasions and other temptations to regulate the housing market with this transfer of costs. As a second consideration, I haven't had time to look at it but it must be the first time in history that a royal decree-law, which is an emergency and exceptional measure, is modified by another royal decree-law before the first royal decree-law is validated. The truth is that this is a somewhat peculiar legislative technique. We are seeing everything in these times, but that we are now validating a part of a royal decree-law that is not in force does not cease to be peculiar. On the subject of measures in the field of transport, we share these measures, the rebalancing of these contracts for the management of the transport service. In fact, we have been calling for it repeatedly since July, without much success so far, and we therefore support it. In any case, I would also like to make two considerations: one is that it is late because it has created uncertainty in many of these companies that have been managing these contracts since 22 July, where they were exposed - before there was a system - until almost the end of December. In any case, if they arrive, Minister, I just have to move a request and it is not only that they are resolved but that these rebalancings are paid quickly, because some of these companies are large companies that have a financial muscle and a financial capacity to cope with this situation, but many of the concessionary companies that are carrying out this type of services are small and medium-sized companies with serious difficulties, that have had to take advantage of the ICOs, all the opportunities that have arisen, and that although they have seen with relief this measure, still today they have a very complicated treasury situation that threatens their viability. We therefore ask you to be diligent in the processing of these dossiers and, above all, in the payment of all of them. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u119	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good afternoon. I have already told you that we will vote in favour of this royal decree, although we consider that it does not cease to be a patch that responds to a really social emergency situation that will soon be a year old. We have been in a social emergency for a year - therefore it makes sense - which does not affect the basis of the housing market problem that affects the entire State. In view of the experience of these months of state alarm, and given the repeated breaches and abuses often in the rental market and the eviction procedures affecting very vulnerable sectors, we have seen that with patches we can do little and that the problem is structural, very serious and that it can be tackled urgently through courageous housing policies. Yesterday, in the middle of the third wave of pandemic, in Barcelona, a woman of fifty-two years who uses wheelchairs and is diabetic was discharged from the place where she lived ten years ago, and it is not an isolated case, is constant and we have seen it constantly these months. We all know that the major issues to be resolved are two. On the one hand, the increase in the very expensive social housing stock, we all agree in that sense, but, on the other, we want the regulation of the rental market that avoids speculation that today practice large forks and investment funds. Let's be realistic. In Catalonia we have already made progress in that direction. On the basis of the approval of the housing ILP presented by the Llogateres Union, which had extensive social support, with more than 4,000 entities of Catalan civil society, the Parliament has advanced a law of its own regulating the prices of rents, a law protected by the civil law of Catalonia and led by the republican and companion Esther Capella, which prohibits, on the one hand, evictions, fights against the abusive prices imposed by banks and large forbearers and protects tenants against indiscriminate increases in rent; a law which, by the way, you already know is being threatened by the Constitutional Court, which has admitted to the process a remedy by the People's Party that threatens the Catalan law of rental regulation, a resource curiously elaborated by the same law firm that the former leader of Ciutadans Albert Rivera presides. The People's Party has acted as a bridge between the real estate lobby and rentism, which is currently represented by entities such as Asbanc, socimis and other organizations that have co-opted the real estate market in the state over the last ten years and who are not interested in the existence of rent regulation or regulation of the housing market. In fact, they live from the current deregulation. It should be recalled that it was the People's Party that reduced rental contracts from five to three years in 2013 and changed the tax regime of the socimis so that they will not pay corporate tax. It is the same party that now, justified in a competition conflict, aims to bring down a regulation that is giving encouragement to thousands of tenants who have stopped suffering abusive increases in contracts. It is a shameful demonstration of the contempt of State institutions for the majority social consensus in Catalonia and the protection needs of our most vulnerable fellow citizens. In spite of all this, and as is also known, our group has always supported those initiatives discussed in this Parliament which are progressing precisely in protecting social rights, such as access to decent housing. For that reason, we have already called for a ban on evictions, at least two years in advance. For this very reason we will support this new and positive but insufficient royal decree, because when it comes to protecting the victims of the housing market we are clear what our side is, we are always clear what our side is. But just as in Catalonia the Parliament has passed a law that has emanated from an initiative led by civil society, you have on the table a proposal involving the same civil society, to which, by responsibility, you have to respond. Obviously, in the face of the pressures of the speculative sector represented by the big forks and vulture funds, it is now more necessary than ever to shield the Central Government-General's agreement, in this case, and so close to us, to protect the most vulnerable sectors represented by both tenants and the most vulnerable small owners. If you had done all that work before in the face of a social emergency like the one we're experiencing these months, today we probably wouldn't be like this and we probably wouldn't need the last-minute patches that we're constantly forcing. Today the European Union itself states that the Spanish State must regularise the housing market as soon as possible, and you know that the opinions of the ESC Committee and its recommendations included in the last periodic report of 2018 must be complied with. Four sentences are handed down on the State for violating human rights to housing, three of which speak of regulating the eviction procedure. You know that it is pending to give an answer. Put on your batteries, do not delay the decisions and be brave, as we have been in Catalonia, taking even the pressures, come from wherever they come from. I'd like to end a thought. When organised civil society in Catalonia, with the Llogateres Union at the front and with the support of entities such as the PAH, pushed for a change in the Catalan legislative framework to protect the right to housing and regulate rental prices, the Socialist Party of Catalonia decided to go out in defense of the vulture funds and the big forks and voted with the People's Party and Citizens against what is already being done by governments such as Merkel or Macron. Now it seems that the Constitutional Court wants to point to the car and load what the Catalans have decided democratically, I suppose that in order not to lose the habit, and the PSC, as always, instead of facing the judges in defense of Catalonia's sovereignty, will be behind the interests of the usual. Set yourself what your role is, who you want to protect in the future housing law, mainly because it will be very clear what the role is. For the time being, the experience we have from Catalonia is different from the real will of what you propose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u120	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u121	Thank you, President. Minister, I'll start with the consensus. I believe that no one can argue today that housing, in this serious pandemic situation, is more than ever the safe haven for families, as the minister said. The house, the home, is the place that gives us the most basic protection against this virus and, for that reason, we could not even fulfill those issues related to confinement, with the so-called curfew, if we didn't have that space, if we didn't have that housing. I also believe that there is a certain consensus in the following idea. The expulsion of a family from their homes, evictions without a housing alternative, today, in addition to the violation of human rights, as established in the international treaties on this subject, is an essential issue for preserving public health. Executing evictions, therefore, is a great irresponsibility at this time, something unacceptable if you want to carry out both human and effective management of the pandemic. But it's not just about defending the right to housing or public health, it's also about economic efficiency, and that's where I mean the right. We should prevent a speculative market and a rent economy from ending up suffocating the real economy, the productive economy, and trampling on the living conditions of workers and also small businesses. This royal decree-law puts some important measures on the table. It collects, among other things, the suspension of evictions from vulnerable families and has therefore meant a breath for thousands of families, but it is a matter that will be temporarily in force. Let us not be mistaken: it is only an emergency solution. It makes a parenthesis and cushions the effects of a real estate market - and here's the important thing - which remains insolidary, abusive and speculative. There are many shortcomings in our State in relation to housing. We lack a public rental park, and in recent years there has been a marked speculative process of the rental market, which has ended up in abusive prices, in abusive rental rents. I also take the opportunity to remind the right-wing gentlemen that the right to speculate with a home is not a right recognized in the Constitution. It is curious that while on the one hand a very important debate has been opened about the rise of the SMI, which sometimes involves increases of less than 10 euros, and it is blamed on this rise that can damage or negatively affect the economy, on the other hand there is no question of the increases of rent, because every time there is a greater gap between rents and wages, placing the workers in a situation of real risk, in a situation that is difficult to bear, in a daily life distress. If we continue like this, if the public authorities do not end up taking effective measures, there will come a day when the working people will not be able to choose to rent a house. Why? For something very clear, because it is much more profitable to rent a house for fifteen days to a tourist; that is the law of the market. The question is whether we want that future for our country. Therefore, it is important that this royal decree-law, but it is important to take urgent and important measures that housing law will try to solve those shortcomings that we have talked about. I ended by referring to the resolution adopted by the Basque Parliament not more than a week ago, a body which, by the way, is not suspicious of extreme left politics. It called on States to combat speculative investment, adopt measures to control rents and curb the expansion of tourist homes. Our group is going to vote - of course not! - for the validation of this royal decree-law, but we are well aware that there is a long way to go. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Perales has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, in this area I would like to say that we believe that it is essential that these kinds of rules should be put into effect, even more so in the context of a health emergency such as we have at the moment, and that it is urgent to guarantee these rights. In addition, we make a call to cooperate with all public administrations - local, autonomous and, of course, the Government - and at the same time we also want to make a call to the judiciary. We know that there are many judges who are being sensitive and who are having a proactive attitude, but we call on those who continue to drag their feet, who are not being aware of the difficult situation our people are going through and who continue to order forced evictions against vulnerable populations. We call on you from here to cooperate in the implementation of our international human rights obligations. I would like to point out that this decree serves primarily to bring us closer to complying with the recommendations of the UN Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and with the resolutions that compel our country to do so. This is a temporary rule, but we hope that this type of protection will end up becoming stable measures to guarantee the right to housing for the entire population. We want to thank the militant efforts of human rights activists, who are putting the body in every day to guarantee people's rights. And I want to tell you that all the positive that this decree has is the result of that struggle that takes place every day in popular neighborhoods in defense of the right to housing. And those who come up here talking about public park when they have responsibilities in local governments and in autonomous governments, such as those of the Madrid Community or the Madrid City Council, I sincerely believe that they are laughing at this institution. They are laughing because they were responsible for the privatization of 5000 dwellings -3000 in the Community of Madrid, 2000 in the city hall - and are now unable to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling to return the 3000 dwellings to the public domain. In addition, not only do they do this, but they take out a housing rental program that says that in order to be able to access the rental support of the City of Madrid A family of four members has to have an income of 3300 euros or 6500 euros. These gentlemen say that they are against returning things to the public, remunicipalizing, statizing or depriving, but that is not true. What happens is that they are against recovering social housing for people to live; they are in favour of remunerating the schools of Tauromaquia. We believe that they have to be ahead of people's interests and we believe that public administrations have to be able to be brave, to hold hands with speculators and to say that anyone who wants to carry out an economic activity in our country...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u124	Mr. Mayor, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u125	...you have to respect our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, good afternoon almost. I'm gonna make you a spoiler. VOX will vote against the validation of this rule. We are not communists and, for this reason, we cannot support the indirect expropriation of the Spanish houses that this rule entails. [[Applauds]] What I will not be able to avoid is to explain to you the reasons why our parliamentary group is radically opposed to this communist measure. He synthesized it for four reasons. Firstly, VOX's absolute opposition to this communist policy, which for the first time is introduced in Spain, is based on the armed robbery of the dreams and illusions of millions of honest, hardworking and humble Spaniards who, with an extraordinary effort, acquire throughout their lives a housing that the Government, with this rule, now allows usurp with total impunity; the houses of Spanish workers, in particular those located in the most humble neighborhoods of cities such as Madrid or Barcelona, where, according to the data offered by the Ministry of the Interior, the illegal occupation strikes the neighbors with a much greater virulence, especially in Catalonia. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many complaints were registered in Spain during the first six months of 2020 for illegal occupations, and I address myself in particular to the negationists of Podemos: more than forty complaints a day. That is, during the first six months of 2020, more than forty Spanish families were stripped of a lifetime of sacrifice every day, almost half of them in Catalonia. And what does the government say to these families today? That between those who fulfil their obligations and those who commit crimes, the Government chooses and protects the offender, turning Spain into the paradise of occupation, because it suspends judicial evictions even when the occupation causes a crime. The left, with its usual demagogy, often sees billionaires everywhere, but that is not the reality of Spain. For most Spaniards buying a home is the most important investment they will make throughout their lives. In Madrid, for example, the average Spanish spends up to ten years of their full salary in order to pay the mortgage, ten years of their life. And this is what today tramples on this social-communist government, which puts its hand directly on the savings of the Spaniards by regulating a covert expropriation of their properties disguised as government social aid. [[Applauds]] To favor who? The criminals. 80% of the Spanish population owns a building, all of which are now abandoned by the Government. Secondly, given the obvious reality of the growing phenomenon of illegal occupation, only denied by Podemos, the solutions you propose are totally opposed to the solution that only VOX defends in this Chamber. Do you know what our party's proposal is in the face of illegal occupation? It is summarized in a very simple way: you have to get the okupas out of a kick in the ass on the first day they invade a home. [[Applauds]] The Spanish workers who see them usurped are immediately returned from their homes. This has resulted in concrete legislative initiatives presented by this parliamentary group on 16 July, through legislative proposals, in which what has been punishing the Okupas for months with prison sentences of up to four years, where they are now only punished by a fine and, essentially, we allow our Security Forces and Bodies, by law, to immediately evict the Okupas. His Government offered the Spanish the protection of criminals; what VOX offered was law and order. We know how to do it and we have already done it, we have recorded it - I repeat - on July 16. Thirdly, I am going to dismantle the enormous lie that lies behind this decree that seeks only one holder, the holder that the Government supposedly suspends the evictions of the most vulnerable people. You have forbidden the Spanish people to work, you have forbidden them to lift the blinds of their businesses and yet you have not stopped charging them a single tax; moreover, it is the only government in Europe that has raised them. They have been taking propaganda measures, which over the months have been shown to be just that: pure propaganda. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, when eight months ago in this very House Mr Escrivá promised that minimum living income would reach 2,300,000 families of Spaniards, of whom more than one million would be eliminated from the risk of social exclusion? Well, to date and according to the response provided by the Government on 4 January, this minimum living income has reached just over 130,000 people in Spain, which in most cases receive only 462 euros per month. The months pass, and there are families that have not entered a single euro since almost a year ago. Companies close: 100,000 companies have disappeared in 12 months. Structural employment is destroyed: according to the data known today, there are 700,000 structural jobs destroyed. And you are surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that VOX abstained in the royal decree-law articulating the instrument of implementing European funds. [[Applauds]] You, a day more or a day less doesn't matter, because all of us here today haven't seen our quality of life as a result of the pandemic at least, but for millions of Spaniards and those who are about to arrive every day, every day counts. The government knows what is going to happen this year, and that is why it is not trusting us in our homes. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is here. With the economic figures they handle, they know that the great economic failure of our country that is to come would accelerate and it would be immediate if we were confined at home, because what has so far been a liquidity problem will become a problem of corporate solvency when, once the state of alarm is over, around the month of May, three milestones are fulfilled that suppose that the economic patches that have been imposed disappear: when the deadline for the return of ICOs expires, when the term of duration of the ERTEs ends and when the moratorium ends to request the declaration of creditor tenders. It is at that time that there is going to be an extraordinary increase in evictions and not now. And do you know why this decree-law isn't effective? Because its term of validity expires precisely when the state of alarm is over. The abyss is approaching, ladies and gentlemen, and the solution cannot fall on the shoulders of the Spaniards. There is a structural deficit in public housing, a social protection housing stock. We oppose this indirect expropriation that protects the offender. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards deserve no less than those five-star hotels that are paying illegal immigrants. Ours, first thing. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u129	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, for the first time, I am going to declare myself a sovereignist - I say this to all the sovereignists who are in front of me - but a sovereignist of my individual freedom; individual sovereignty over collective sovereignty, which Minister Iceta will at some point explain to us in the near future. Look, in open societies, in liberal democracies, in free structures of countries, for two hundred years, there are two principles that are basic: one is freedom and the other is equality. Private property is the result of making effort, merit and capacity profitable. The work, fundamentally, is the potential that makes us better, the one that humanizes us, and when the public sector supports or legitimizes usurpation or theft, whether public or private, it is dehumanizing society. This is an attack on private property, Minister, it is, it begins to be, and it is also in two episodes: first, the royal decree-law of December and, then, the result of budgetary negotiations with Unite Podemos, the bloody decree-law 1/2021, which I would have never seen published. That's the reality. Let me be clear: private property is a moral value. I'm listening here to some statements that take me back to times I thought were completely overtaken, but completely overtaken. And I am surprised at you, Minister, because I thought that you, in your personal capacity, had abandoned communism in your adolescence, but I see no; I see that you then jumped to Marxist socialism and then left Marxism and settled into a rare thing called pragmatic social democracy. But it is that the refounder of your party, which is called Paul Iglesias II, has brought them back to Marxism; that is the great problem, which you, Minister, do not legislate, are legislating those behind you. [[Applauds]] It has become by the work and grace of Paul Iglesias II - Pablo Iglesias Turrion - the cooking pin of the most heterodox communism we have seen in recent years, that there is no government in any democratic country. Indeed, I am concerned that they have become the monosabs of a confused ideology, of course disturbing and for nothing modernist or progressive, that concept which they systematically embrace. Because what the Socialist Party is responsible for is saying - I heard it the other day several times; they must have told them to say it - that it is a party with one hundred forty-one years of history. Of course I do. Will it turn out now that antiquity gives ideas?, of reasons?, really? I do not understand why they continue to insist that they are one hundred forty-one years old; one hundred forty-one years of permanent contradictions, yes. [[Applauds]] Whoever gave them, at least with the same name, will finish them off; Paul Iglesias founded them and will finish them off Paul Iglesias as they follow that step. Look at what curious contradictions and what curious paradoxes the history of politics in this country gives. You, Minister, have a problem with property and, above all, with the concept of domination, both of private and public domain. We already know that for you the airport public domain in Barajas is a free zone for Venezuelan satraps. You would have to play a movie, 'Passing Miss Delcy', and you would have to be Morgan Freeman with a car, obviously, inside the Barajas airport. However, they do not protect the private property of each and are dedicated to defending the assault of other people's property. By the way, those who came to storm the sky, in the end what they claim is to storm the homes of others, the private homes. In this, modern socialism has remained, I say, the crutch of Marxism complexed from Unidad Podemos; now, 'Unidas Podemos okupar'. [[Applauds]] Moncloa already has ka long ago, and let's explain it. Mr. Mayor is not here today, but the other day I heard some things that I would like you to clarify. There may be some ideological difference or many ideological differences between Mr. Mayor's ousting and claudicative thinking and my liberal political thinking, but, of course, to say that a second or third dwelling is an abandoned thing... To see if he confused the concept of res nullius with that of de mens nullius and the one who passed the note to him has not studied Law, because when you have a second or a third dwelling is not abandoned, it is property and, of course, will make the desired use of that dwelling, which is the result of the effort, capacity, merit and personal sacrifice of those we have worked for all our lives. That's what you come to sink. They come to socialize merit, to lower capacity below. That is the maximum expression of egalitarianism, the socializing and Marxist egalitarianism that leads us to where it leads us. Then he starts talking about the vulture funds. Do you remember how many public homes Carmena promised? 4000. Then he lowered them to 2500. Do you know how many are finished? 64; little was left for 69, which is a more sensual number. That's the reality, gentlemen of the Unidad Podemos. Really, be aware of what you're saying. By the way, so much talk about vulture funds and so much talk about the process of rescuing the banks of the Spanish financial system, but I have not heard you say anything about a possible opposition to the merger of the two big financial institutions in this country. We are in favour of fusion, but are you? Are you in favour of merging with an entity that has been doped with public funds? Where's your consistency? Do you want to explain it to your circles? Since they have become monarchical in front of some slot machine, let's see if at least they ever interpret some of the concepts, such as the concept of property rights in this country. The decree-law is a joke. It is not the first time in the legislative history of this country that an unvalidated decree-law is amended; I think it is the second time that it happens. Congratulations, you have hit a record, you are in the second position of things that should not be done in good administrative practice or in good legislative technique. Above all, what has to be explained is why the decree of December is disconnected with the decree of January: because they are hostages of those who are behind, because they were hostages of the budgetary negotiations, because this is the payment, it is the tribute that they are paying to Unidad Podemos. But, of course, if the December decree of last year is already serious, we are waiting for you here next week, Minister, because there was no greater abuse of property rights in a European country than you committed two weeks ago. [[Applauds]] It's never happened. You for the first time legitimize the illegal occupation. You know why? Because you have a problem with a triangle that for you is conceptually impossible to fit. There are three sides: the private property side, the legislative state side and the vulnerability side. How is the situation of vulnerable people resolved? By not expropriating, but by ensuring that housing exists through a system of aid or a supply of a stock of public housing. You have gone directly to expropriation, to what you have called - I ask the technical services to tell you something - regular procedure of collaboration with the public administrations. Poor Marxist nominalism! Voluntary collaboration. This is invented by the Rubius and the Cojo Manteca, whom they are resurrecting and for a long time not coming this way, to the Congress of Deputies. I conclude, Madam President. The Socialist Party has a problem. It has buried the foundations of the support of a liberal State, the sense of private ownership, the legitimate sense of the balances of private and public contracts. And you know why he buried them? Because it is no longer you, but it is simply the cooking pinches of your founder, Pablo Iglesias Turrión. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u130	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u131	Thank you, President. He had stayed a quiet afternoon and the people had gone to eat; as it is said in my land, an afternoon of walk, until he went up to the rostrum Mario Garcés. We knew his dowry and the fins he made as an actor. Today he has shown that he is a magnificent actor when he has read here a script that is not believed either. In politics, Mr Garcés, apart from interpreting our speech here, we have to believe it. It is interesting that we remember that, when we entered this Chamber, most of us here had in mind that we wanted to improve people's lives. This is one of those decrees that he seeks to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people in this country. [[Applauds]] It's what he's looking for, and they know it. It seeks to protect victims of gender-based violence, dependent persons, persons with children in their care, because this country cannot afford any more images of evictions of dependent persons. He can't afford it. This country cannot allow any more images of people with minors in their care who have been released from their homes, and more in this situation. This decree seeks to protect people who need politics, because it only has politics. I find it curious to hear the People's Party say it protects private property, and I wonder: whose? We have to remember that in the previous economic crisis thousands of families were evicted, thousands of families lost their homes, thousands of families lost their property, thousands of entrepreneurs lost their property and made with them vulture funds and banks that you rescued. What property does the People's Party defend in this country? [[Greetings.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes gestures]] As is known, this decree affects fork owners who have more than ten homes. And I wonder: how many workers in this country have more than ten homes? How many entrepreneurs, even small entrepreneurs and self-employed people in this country have more than ten homes? VOX and the People's Party say here that they defend the working class. It is curious to hear VOX's spokesman say that the average working class in this country takes ten years to pay their mortgage. Ten years? Who takes ten years to pay their mortgage? Twenty-five, thirty-five or forty. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, who do you defend? To those who lift the blind, no; not to those. Surely those who close the blind because they are going to bed later because they had nothing to do. As I said, this is a decree that seeks to protect the most vulnerable people in this country, but it is a guarantee decree, a decree that seeks to give security to investors. The largest investment fund in the world has said a few days ago that it is going to increase investment in real estate in this country by 25% this year. Where is that insecurity that the People's Party and VOX are talking about, that insecurity that generates government measures? If the largest investment fund predicts that it will increase investment in this country, it is something we will be doing well. We protect people, give security to investors and make a decree that guarantees everything. When we say that this decree protects vulnerable families, we say that it protects vulnerable families and owners. This government, the socialist government, the coalition government with Unity We can defend the owners, all those people who for many years and with great effort managed to buy a house, two houses, three houses. Those persons who have their habitual dwelling and who have a second dwelling are protected by this decree. Mr. Garcés, with your magnificent performance, I understand that you're trying to make people see that they can lose their homes because someone is going to occupy a worker's home. That's not true, you know that. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes gestures]] And in addition to a magnificent actor, I see that he is making merits to be mime, for the gestures he is dedicated to doing while the others intervene. [[Applauds]] In addition, I have heard speeches here that said above all one thing: the housing policy that has been done in this country has not been a great policy. Citizens have said it, the PNV has said it and other parties have said it. It is true that there has not been a good housing policy in this country; when it ruled the PP it did not make a good housing policy. But what is curious and what needs to be asked of Citizens and the Asturias Forum, which has also criticized it, is why they voted against a budget that increases housing by 350 %, 22 billion euros. [[Applauds]] I understand that we must be consistent. And I recognize that we are grateful for the position of Citizens, who have had the capacity to dialogue. The PP has not even tried, because within its party strategy it is not coming here to try to improve the decrees that are presented, to try to improve the lives of the people, because they have marked a shared strategy that has nothing to do with the priorities of the people of this country. And they have to be aware, because when a party like the People's Party, which has ruled this country and should aspire to do so again, it does that, the only thing that can happen to it is that it passes the far right. Gentlemen of the People's Party, as you go, I see that you will not have the capacity to govern this country. [[Mr Garcés Sanagustín makes gestures pointing to the seats on the left side of the Chamber]] Yes, I know you're doing credit for being a mime actor, but surely the House and Parliament are not the best place to do that. I'm finishing up. I want to show my gratitude to the people who have had the capacity to dialogue, to those who have had the capacity to listen; to parties such as the PNV, whose position I do not share, and I have told you on the phone and I tell you here today. Besides, I'm going to reschedule one thing for you. It is true that many of the housing policies are going to have to be done by the communities and it is also true that the majority of the 22 billion euros of housing policies that have been approved in the budgets are going to be managed by the autonomous communities. Be co-responsible, help us solve a situation that many people live in and we work to make people, every time they hear a debate in Parliament, feel that we come here to improve people's lives, to have empathy and not just to get our people's applause. That's very good, but it has little merit and little help to the people on the street. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 39/2020 OF 29 DECEMBER, OF FINANCIAL MEASURES OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SUPPORT AND OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SENTENCES. [[File number 130/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u133	We now turn to the fifth item on the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 39/2020 of 29 December of financial measures for social and economic support and enforcement of sentences. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to all of you. Allow me, in my speech, the first in this new session, to greet after the resumption of parliamentary activity and to convey, as it cannot otherwise be, the solidarity and affection of the Government to all those who have lost during these months a loved one and to those who are sick or who are still convalescent with this terrible disease. Together with them, I would also like to bring to this House all the citizens who are suffering the effects of the health crisis at the economic level, at the labour level. As you know, many are young women, for whom the pandemic is leading to a worsening of their vital situation. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that these words that we repeat all of us who speak from this rostrum of political groups can be used, but we cannot fail to bear in mind that what we need to focus on, especially in the coming months, is precisely this fight against the pandemic and the implementation of all the instruments that will minimize the economic consequences that result from it. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the citizens expect us to help mitigate this crisis as soon as possible and to deploy, through the royal decree-laws that we are bringing to this Congress of Deputies, all the measures that may be necessary. I would also like to recall the development in record time of several vaccines that science has made available to the community. The start of this vaccination campaign is a hope, it is also an encouragement for all the people we are trying not to get infected with this disease and for those who have a previous vulnerability and therefore need to receive these doses as soon as possible. As we see, in this third wave the data remains worrying. So until we get that 70% of the vaccinated population we can't drop the guard at any time. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is necessary in this intervention to bring to mind all the people who are fighting this disease in the front line: the health care workers, who accumulate months of strenuous efforts; the security forces; the army, without forgetting much of the anonymous citizens who maintain civic behaviour and solidarity and are an example to be imitated. This is the context in which I appear today to request the validation of this Royal Decree-Law 39/2020, of financial and social and economic support measures and enforcement of sentences. The objectives that we pursue are to continue in this line that I have mentioned, deployed by the Government to meet the special economic and social needs that this pandemic continues to cause, with a particular focus on the protection of the most vulnerable groups, but also invigorating the economy and in line with our international commitments. This rule, ladies and gentlemen, will also make it possible to respond in time and form to judgments pending execution, which required immediate legislative changes for their proper implementation in financial terms. That is why, first of all, I am going to focus my attention on a particularly relevant measure, such as the exemption in the income tax of natural persons from the recipients of the minimum living income. As your ladies and gentlemen recall, the approval of this new historic benefit in Spain on 29 May took a giant step in the protection and coverage of social rights. We did not find a similar reference if we did not go back to the adoption of the Dependency Act in 2006. Since then, a number of improvements have been articulated, with particular emphasis on simplifying administrative procedures. The rule that we are discussing today is one more step, as it provides for exemption from the payment of the IRPF to recipients of this benefit in exactly the same terms as they already have other economic benefits from autonomous communities, such as the minimum income for inclusion or the aid that local entities make to care for individuals and groups at risk of social exclusion or emergency situations. In particular, what we are proposing today is that the sum of minimum living income and any other benefit be considered exempt from the IRPF up to a combined maximum annual amount of 1.5 times the public multi-effect income indicator, the so-called Iprem. As you will recall, this indicator, the Iprem, is the benchmark for the granting of many grants and subsidies on the basis of the income of the family unit. The Budgets Act for this year 2021 has, in fact, established a 5% revaluation, up to €564.90 per month, following a freeze that already lasted four years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that incorporating that section into this decree-law shows the firm commitment of this Government to poverty reduction and the fight against social exclusion, as taxation is a key tool that contributes to countries' progress in social justice, ensuring - which is always our goal - equal opportunities. On the other hand, the royal decree-law establishes an extension of credit to deal with the patrimonial responsibility of the legislative state, in particular, ladies and gentlemen, for the execution of the judgment become by the so-called Castor project. They know that this gas project was granted in May 2008 to Escal UGS, SL, which started operations in May 2012. However, two years later, in particular in 2014, the activity had to be halted by registering small earthquakes in the provinces of Castellón and Tarragona. As a result, the Executive in 2014 approved a royal decree-law that agreed to terminate the grant of this project to Escal and granted its administration to Enagas. Enagas at that time paid Escal the investments made so far, investments amounting to 1350 million, in exchange for the recognition of a levy for the same amount for thirty years, authorizing the transfer to third parties. Subsequently, in December 2017, the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional and null several articles of this royal decree of 2014 that granted the administration to Enagas, articles that collected the right of collection of this company, among other aspects. More recently, the Supreme Court, in judgement 1404/2020 of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber, has recognized the right of the three banking entities that advanced this amount to Enagas to facilitate this closing of the warehouse to be compensated for the amount of €1,350 million plus the corresponding interest on the part of the State; interests, ladies and gentlemen, which are increasing day by day if we do not pay these amounts with special urgency so that they are not more onerous for public accounts. In fact, the execution of this judgment will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and, therefore, we request authorization for the granting of an extension of credit of 638 million to be financed from the public debt. Another aspect of this royal decree-law, specifically the first final provision, is the amendment of Act No. 14/2000 of 29 December 2000 on fiscal, administrative and social measures. It is a question of enabling a mechanism for Spain to integrate, in time and in form, into the instruments that the multilateral financial institutions put in place to give a global response to the COVID-19 crisis. It is a crisis, as you well know, that requires commitment and solidarity, especially with those who have less. Our country's contributions to these institutions are intended to support the smooth functioning of international economic governance, particularly in reducing poverty, promoting the development of poor countries and contributing to the provision of global public goods. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our country must be able to commit resources within the time limits that are internationally defined, and with this proposal that we are submitting to you today we ensure that the necessary mechanism is implemented so that this can be possible without entailing a greater amount of expenditure. Finally, this royal decree-law introduces an adjustment to Law 19/1994 of 6 July, amending the economic and fiscal regime of the Canary Islands. In fact, the aim is to extend the time limits within one year so that the reserves for investments in the Canary Islands, the so-called RIC, can be realized. As you know, this investment reserve is one of the most attractive tax incentives that this autonomous community has because it allows for a reduction in the tax base of corporate tax, specifically in the share of profits that are allocated to the investment reserve. That period will therefore be from now on four years for the amounts earmarked for the reserve that have been provided with profits obtained in tax periods started in 2016 and will also be four years for the anticipated investments that took place in 2017. In this way, the Government is once again showing its sensitivity to an autonomous community that is having a particularly bad time during this health pandemic because of the lack of mobility, especially in an area as important to its GDP as tourism, and we are responding to requests for extensions made by both the regional executive and business organizations. I hope that this will help us to inject investment into this economic activity that we want to go back to the Canary Islands so necessary for this revival in the coming months. We are also confident that this measure will help ease the cash flow of many companies that have their tax headquarters in the Canary Islands. They are measures without economic impact, which are limited to making the conditions for the enjoyment of this issue more flexible in view of the peculiarity of this incentive and the exceptionality, of course, of the economic situation resulting from this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech by calling on all parliamentary groups to support the measures contained in the Decree-Law because they are all necessary and urgent in the circumstances. I would also like to take this first parliamentary intervention of the year to ask all the political groups, all the components of this House for an effort of empathy with the citizens and with the reality that they live. Disagreement, ladies and gentlemen, in politics is logical, democratic, but when we bring it to irrational limits they end up seriously harming the general interest and also the citizens themselves. I know for sure that it is not possible for us to disagree in everything and that we do not agree in everything, but they know that there are emergencies, priorities in our country that force us to seek spaces for dialogue and also agree, and they also know that they have the open hand of this Government in order to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you must respect and accept the democratic results. Mr Garcés said that the Moncloa is occupied with k; it is improper for a party that has had governmental responsibilities in this country to address the President of the Government with that qualification. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, passing a real decree-law to get European funds to reach businesses and to reach the majority of citizens is patriotic. It is not about benefiting a government, it is about making it possible for economic recovery to reach our society, for companies to take advantage of that injection that Europe makes available for the first time and for us to make use of the best instruments to help citizens, not this government, to recover a normality that has been lost for a long time. No State is vaccinated against the intolerance virus, but the vaccine against it is dialogue and legitimate democratic confrontation, and not frantism, which only wants or gets wear. That is why I would like to appeal from this rostrum to banish these political practices that cause disquiet and boredom to all citizens. We are a country that faces the challenge of tremendous dimensions, but the priority objective remains to end the pandemic and address the economic and social consequences. It is a task that first belongs to the Government of Spain, but also to the opposition as a whole, and who speaks to them places them with humility, but also with determination, and encourages them to work together for the benefit of our country's citizens. It is our duty, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke on the question of position-setting by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u136	They will allow me, first of all - because I never have seven minutes and today I have them at this point, and I couldn't do it throughout the day because I had a minute or a minute and a half - to wish Carolina Darias, the new Minister of Health, success at work, which is going to be very hard, at a very difficult time. I know she's a very serene, very hardworking woman, and a sample of intelligence is to surround herself with big teams like the ones she's had everywhere. I sincerely wish you the best because it will be good for everyone. Having said that, Minister, I am going to support the decree, obviously, but I want to tell you how we feel in the Canary Islands. Why did they do this like that? Today the EPA leaves, and Spain has 16% unemployment and the Canary Islands 25%. Canary Islands is the community that proportionally has the most people in ERTE, the largest number of non-contributory pensions, eight thousand companies disappeared, cessation of activity... In July the Parliament of the Canary Islands, the Socialist Government of the Canary Islands, the President of the Canary Islands, this Member, the business sectors, as you said, the trade unions, we all ask you to take a decision, which had already been taken with the Basque Government, to extend the deadline for companies to make investments in the RIC and to have the company tax subsidies and also the jobs until December 2021. Why? Because the companies were closed, there was zero activity in the Canary Islands, an absolute uncertainty, and we had to have the guarantee that in that instrument, which is vital for the Canary Islands companies, it could postpone investment or the hiring of workers for one year. And neither in July nor August, the vice president in September. When the state budgets come, my colleague Pedro Quevedo and I tabled an amendment in the terms that come today in the royal decree and you voted against the amendment. In my case, they did not even allow it to be voted on; in the case of my colleague Pedro Quevedo, they voted against it. And at the last Council of Ministers of the year, on 30 December, they reported that they extended for one year. Do you know what that generated? That many companies that were not interested in investing in this year and that by business decisions it was convenient for them to postpone it throughout 2021, in the face of the doubt, because it was the last day of the year, they had to advance investments that they did not have to make and limit at a certain time business decisions because of the uncertainty, the lack of affection towards the issues of the Canary Islands, for lack of knowledge, for not giving priority, for not listening to Carolina Darias, that every week we spoke Carolina and I because Carolina also spoke to the Canarian businessman. You don't know the damage you did to hundreds of companies for not making the decision at the time you had to make it. The things in the Canary Islands are small compared to the problems that this country has. They are small for a minister like you, who had to prepare budgets, who had the European theme, who had the liquidation, but they are very important for a land that is suffering the worst health pandemic in these days, as happens in Lanzarote and Gran Canaria - in Tenerife we were bad in November and, thank God, it is better - and whose economic situation, future and perspective is very difficult. We know that until October tourism will not recover. We depend not only on how we are, but also on the United Kingdom and Germany. We know that people with poverty and one hand in front and one hand in the back cannot gain access to the minimum income. We have few activities and we have the banana sector at risk by that food chain law. There are 20,000 families, and the other day I was trying to explain it and they don't finish understanding it. They talk about improving the destination; if we have the best tourist destination in Europe and the world, that is the Canary Islands! They talk about digitisation, they talk about competition and they don't realize that the Canary Islands is banana, tomato, avocado, hotels, the guarantee that the ERTE will be until December 31, 2021 for people to endure, the theme of the RIC, the theme of the REF. In the end, they are small things for a ministry like yours or for this country, but they are great for a land that is 2500 kilometers away. Of course, I am going to support the decree today, but I ask you that the next times, if you do not want, do not listen to this Member; if you do not want, do not allow the amendments to the budgets - as you have done for the first time in history - but that you listen to your party colleagues, the President of the Canary Islands and his colleague from the Council of Ministers, Carolina Darias. The Canary Islands deserves things to be done at the political moment and at the economic moment that are necessary because very difficult times come. This Member did not vote in favour of the investiture of this Government and did not vote in favour of the budgets, but this Member has supported all the decrees of this Government. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u138	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon, welcome on. Today we are debating here about the validation of Royal Decree 39/2020, a royal decree that has little in common and in which again they set out the reasons for the extraordinary and urgent need that justify the use of an exceptional normative instrument. Although we are going to vote in favour, we want to make a small criticism that some of the measures in particular do not respond to the extraordinary need caused by COVID. I am referring to the extent to which it allows the State to be in debt in order to meet the payment of the compensation of the Castor project because, apparently, there are insufficient resources in the Contingency Fund. We consider that this measure closes a controversy begun about six years ago, but it is true that it is done precisely when we are faced with a third wave of the pandemic, in which so many financial resources are needed, but it is a payment that must also be made because it is execution of the Supreme Court's judgment for the cancellation of this warehouse. [[The Lord]] On the other hand, there is a change in the regulation of minimum living income, although this time the amendment is done through an indirect way, since the revision is the regulation of the income tax of natural persons and partial modification of the laws of the company tax, the income of non-residents and the property. This is a change, in short, to reduce the taxation of those who receive this vital minimum income, equipping this tax regulation with that of the autonomous minimum income and other social emergency aid established by the autonomous communities and local administrations. With this measure, in the end, it is proposed to guarantee economic livelihood resources to those who lack them. It is a measure in line with what we have already established in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and a measure also adopted by the Diputación de Vizcaya in October 2020 to ensure that minimum living income has the same tax treatment as GIR and that, paradoxically, Bildu and Podemos voted against. And the PP too. Finally, I would also like to say that the decree extends within one year the deadlines for implementing the investment reserve, measures, as I said, which we believe are necessary and which we will vote in favour. Since we are talking about minimum living income, I want to demand that they proceed with the transfer of the management of it, which we are already quite late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u140	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the last royal decree-law coming to this plenary to be validated; a royal decree containing financial measures of social and economic support and enforcement of sentences. As the Royal Decree-Law itself says in its first paragraph, the situation we are currently experiencing has a very serious social and economic impact and we agree that we must all work together to find better solutions that will help citizens as much as possible. First, this Royal Decree proposes the exemption in the income tax of natural persons from the minimum living income and that it be made in the same terms as the economic benefits established by the Autonomous Communities in terms of the minimum income of insertion, in order to guarantee economic resources of subsistence to persons lacking them, as well as the other aids established by the latter and by other local entities to meet, in accordance with their regulations, collectives at risk of social exclusion. We think it's important. In fact, we believe that it is so important that Citizens submitted an amendment in the processing of the Minimum Vital Income Bill; a processing of the bill that is paralyzed, and it was an amendment in the same sense. Of course, we agree and are glad that you have been inspired to bring that amendment to this royal decree. They do not seem to accept a new amendment, but we are glad that they have brought it into this royal decree. The second measure that includes this royal decree is on emergency situations arising from unforeseen legal circumstances. To sum up, we are talking about the compensation that the Government is obliged to pay from the Castor case. We are faced with a firm ruling that sets out compensations that the Government must pay. It has already been paid 4 million euros in interest of delay, 110,000 euros a day of public money, of all Spaniards. The sooner this payment is executed, we will all win, so we understand that it is a good thing that this budgetary authorization is made in order to be able to execute the payment through the Ministry of Finance. We also have a modification that aims to bring Spain's contributions to multilateral financial institutions into line with the schedule of contributions of the rest of the international community. These contributions, for example, to the International Monetary Fund, will be key to giving a global response to the economic crisis resulting from this health crisis that we are still living in. In fact, we believe that it must be borne in mind that following the path our country and our economy of job destruction may require us to go to the International Monetary Fund to seek help or funding, which we believe is important to make this change. Finally, the amendment is also drawn up to extend the time limits for realising investment reserves in the Canary Islands by one year, with profits obtained in previous tax periods. We also believe that it is positive and that is why we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law. I wanted to take this opportunity to tell Mrs. Olona and the gentlemen of VOX. Today Mrs Olona said in this rostrum in her speech that, if the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 were not passed, the European funds did not reach our country. That's not true, the funds are coming. I understand that you have not asked your MEPs or that they have not explained it to you well, but rather I think you want to look for an excuse for the mess you have made this morning. Because do you know what you've accomplished by voting yes? They have made it possible for Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias to have complete control over the management of these European funds that will reach all Spaniards. Without control, we're not going to be able to control how they're going to distribute the funds. That is what they have achieved by voting yes to that royal decree. [[Applauds]] I would also like to take this opportunity to tell the Minister that from Citizens we always reach out to that consensus that he has asked for today in this rostrum, but it would be interesting for him to contact us before bringing the royal decrees to this hall of plenary. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, with all due respect, I ask you whether it is appropriate for you to mix in a real decree the minimum living income with a boulder and immorality such as the Castor, perpetrated by the governments of the Socialist Party and the PP and which, in the end, favored the interests of entrepreneurs such as Florentino Pérez or large banks such as Santander, La Caixa or Bankia. Let's remember: Castor, construction of a gas warehouse off the coasts of Tarragona and Vinaròs in Castellón. The state takes all risks; entrepreneurs and banks, none, and we are seeing it now. If there was business - and there was - in the construction or use of the warehouse it was for them, they charged. If there was no business, pay everyone. I insist, does it seem appropriate to mix the interests of those who have less with those of those who always win? When I don't put a ball, but they always win. This very morning Bankia presented her balance sheet. It has reduced profits, but it will not have losses, like so many industries, autonomous or SMEs. The answer I give to you, with all due respect, I insist. For Compromís it is one of the most inadequate decrees I have seen in this House. I think what you wanted was to get a problem off of us as quickly as possible without much notice. Yes, I know that sentences must be served - and so much must be served! - but could it not be done otherwise? For example, two different royal decrees. We would have felt more comfortable in voting. The corporal. Compromís is very much in favour of the measures that you put in place in your ministry with the minimum vital income so that those who need it most are exempt, but, sincerely, it is very opposed to taking advantage of this decree to pay a maximum vital income to Florentines or to booties. Finally, let me say something to you that has had so much controversy with your Andalusian accent, that I sincerely love it. Its Andalusian accent, the way Basques pronounce errs when speaking Spanish, the music that Galicians, Andalusians, Batians, Aragonese or Asturians have. There are other languages in the State. And allow me. I am a teacher who humbly tells them that in Valencian and Catalan Miquel - I heard Michael Iceta and I thought they had registered one of the Lakers - is a sharp word. Respect also for the other languages of the State. It's Miquel, Arthur, Albert and Joan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u143	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u144	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we absolutely agree that minimum living income is an exempt income in the IRPF - we have no doubt - but, Minister, we are not going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. We are not going to vote for it - I explain it to you this way - almost out of dignity. We are not going to be complicit in either active or passive in one of the biggest political scandals that have occurred in this country over the past few years. The Castor project has been a scandal since 2007, when we started talking about it. I was then mayor and opposed, but not just a servant, but all the mayors of the Tarragona and Castellón regions involved. It was an absolutely inconceivable situation. It was started by the Socialist Party and ended up by the People's Party, and then no responsibility, political or technical, has been assumed. EUR 1350 million was given to a private company that assumes absolutely no risk, as was reported from the outset; EUR 1350 million is now being paid, in a pandemic situation. Do you know what you can do with 1350 million euros? Do you know what restaurants and small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector would do with 1350 million euros? We are not going to assume this responsibility because it does not belong to us. We've been reporting it for over ten years. And you will say: the sentences have to be fulfilled. Yeah, yeah, they're gonna have to comply. For that, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which caused this disguise, assume it and assume political responsibilities. It cannot be that a royal decree-law is dispatched as if nothing had happened, 1350 million for the banks, who simply advanced resources that the gas system had to advance. Finally, a number of misconceptions, and now they come to ask us here, as our colleague Joan Baldoví has said, together with the exemption from minimum living income, our vote in favour of this. More than anything, when you come up here and ask to pay 1350 million euros because there is a Supreme Court ruling for a disguised of an unusual dimension, minister, we expect the government to say at the same time -1350 million euros are many taxes, a lot of IRPF, a lot of corporate tax, a lot of indirect taxes - that will clear political and technical responsibilities. We're just gonna pay for all the Spaniards, and it's okay here? Is there not going to be any kind of patrimonial responsibility for any of the technicians, for all the people involved in this process, when a lot of people - I'm not talking about the politicians anymore - have been denouncing this since before the process began? We are not going to be accomplices to this royal decree-law. The Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and, above all, the Group of the European People's Party should not close anything here. We urge you to look for political and technical responsibilities on this issue. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u146	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. Today the Government presents us with a royal decree-law that goes on financial measures of social and economic support. Thus, in its operative part, it tells us that the economic and social emergency caused by the pandemic continues to require social and economic support measures. Well, that sounds good. In the same vein, Article 1 continues with very good intentions: with the exemption from the IRPF for persons who receive the minimum living income. Well, we agree, but I am not going to entertain commenting on this section on minimum living income because Mr Escrivá is attending this afternoon, and next week a new royal decree-law on minimum living income will be discussed in this House, and we will have time. So I'm going to focus on what we don't just disagree with, but it seems like a scandal to us. What's this about? It turns out that this royal decree-law is used with social support measures to include the payment of 1350 million euros, I repeat, 1350 million euros, in the middle of the pandemic to pay the debt of the Castor project; although, well, to be rigorous, says the royal decree-law that must add interest. Nor are there then 1350 million, but by adding interest they can exceed, according to experts, 4 billion euros, yes, yes, 4 billion euros. [[The Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] But what are we talking about when we refer to the Castor project, which we have always criticized since 2007? Of a quasi mafia practice, let's remember that this project was an attempt at a large gas warehouse that was paralyzed in 2013 by the Spanish government itself, as a result of more than half a thousand earthquakes. Madam Minister, some of 4,2 and with cracks - I am from the demarcation of Tarragona - in the houses, and here nothing has never happened, neither to who made the contract nor to the technicians, nobody, no responsible, as a result, said, of more than a thousand earthquakes, some of 4,2 on the Richter scale, caused during the gas injection work by the promoter company. In 2014, the same Government renounced the concession of the warehouse and established a multi-million dollar compensation in favour of a company participating in the ACS company. So far it is regrettable, but what follows is shameful. The real decree-law of urgency - I repeat, of urgency - is used in the midst of the pandemic to make a budgetary change to comply with the execution of the judgment of the Supreme Court, but it is clear that this sentence was issued on October 17, 2020, during the first procedure of discussion of the General Budgets of the State. And my question is: why were the General Budgets of the State not amended at the time? Because he wanted to camouflage himself into a royal decree-law with other social measures to try to make this not very clear. And it is shameful to make a change to the budget just one month after its adoption, but if it is also on the pretext of a public ruling previously handed down, the maneuver is totally indecent. But why do you need to hide your political maneuver in this way? Because what is intended is nothing more than to compensate the banking entities Banco de Santander, CaixaBank and Bankia, for the money that they advanced to the company Enagas So that it can compensate the company ACS, of Florentino Pérez, for the closure of the Castor gas warehouse. In other words, in one of the worst economic and social crises in recent history, a crisis that is causing great suffering to a large part of the working population, it turns out that 1350 million must be paid, plus interest. Whose sentence comes from? Of the high judiciary of the state, so discredited in Europe once and again too, that it again imparts justice and favors the financial system, as it did in the matter of the ground clauses or in the judgment on the mortgages governed by the IRPH and a long and so on. It's a small courthouse! Gentlemen of the PSOE, it turns out that in the midst of the pandemic we are called to vote a real decree-law so that we urgently legitimize an unjust sentence, a sentence that allows us to pay with the economic resources of all, of all, one of the worst economic, environmental, ecological and dangerous efforts for the population that are remembered by the different governments of the Kingdom of Spain. I remember that there are also three nuclear power stations in that area, little joke. The direct ones responsible for this dangerous hop called Castor win, the bank, Florentino Pérez and his political accomplices, in this case the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and the ones we lose and pay for their negligence are the ones we always pay the taxes, all of them. There are alternatives. And what would a socialist government do no longer, but a somewhat social-democratic government? Using the state of alarm, the state of war against the pandemic to recover part of that 60 billion euros from the bailout bank, for example, with a real decree-law of urgency and ad hoc not to pay these more than 4 billion euros that is going to cost us that dangerous hedge called Castor. This is what a Social Democratic Government would do at a time when millions of subjects in the kingdom of Spain are suffering. We would have liked to have used its own Constitution, specifically its article 128, to subordinate the interests of the financial system and the large oligopolies to the general interest of the population, to have done justice and, by law, to have never done so by its Supreme Court, to have legislated to avoid the abuse of the economic monopolies that govern political power, and to have safeguarded these billions that will be given to the powerful for purposes of general interest. For all this, we will not legitimize his royal decree-law, we will not legitimize the plundering of the public arks that represents for all of us what has been done and is done with the so-called Castor project. What they were supposed to do, as one of my colleagues has already said, is to recover the money, to seek responsibilities, to allow a committee of inquiry that we have already asked for and that was rejected, here everything that concerns oligopolies, monarchy or crown is always rejected, so that they call it a parliamentary monarchy, but it cannot be controlled by Parliament, but when it comes to the powerful it does not seem to be. Finally, many things to change and it seems that many things remain the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u148	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. President, Minister, although this normative text contains a number of very different elements which you yourself have broken down, given the limited time available to me, I will hardly focus on the two polemics which have monopolized this debate. The first has to do with the exemption from the payment of IRPF for families benefiting from the minimum living income, a measure, of course, just, necessary and urgent, more when, as you yourself have said, there are income from insertion and social assistance, both at the autonomous and local level, which are logically exempt for the purposes of this tax. This is a new step in improving a fundamental mechanism that must be further refined, precisely because of its relevance to mitigating the effects on the most vulnerable population in this long-standing crisis that we are going through. It is true that there are now 462,000 people who benefit from this contribution on a regular basis, including more than 200,000 girls and boys who will have a child, perhaps more decent, thanks to the action of the State. This amounts to some EUR 518 million invested to date. Apart from ERTE, a measure of such social status had not been implemented in Spain since the Unit Act 2006. But it is also true that more than 271,000 applications remain to be processed, and that the needs of the sectors to which it is addressed are still far from being met. We therefore welcome the new progress that undoubtedly contains this royal decree, but the road to the full adequacy of this relevant public policy must still be travelled in its entirety, and my group will not tire of throwing wood at the boiler of that locomotive. The other point in the text, of course, is the extension of the credit to deal with the enforcement of the Supreme's judgment, which obliges the State to pay these three financial institutions the $1,350 million corresponding to the termination compensation for the concession for underground storage of gas, the one known as the Castor project or rather the Castor case. It is a new and painful account in the already long rosary of misconceptions that characterizes this episode of our recent history. On this occasion we are called upon to comply with a court ruling, which we do not share, in which we do not even recognize any hint of justice, and yet we will assist in your compliance with our favourable vote today. We will do so for institutional loyalty, for the recognition of what, among other things, makes a democracy and which many of the French tradition calls separation of powers. But we will do so not without denouncing and pointing out some of the outrages that we have experienced and that we could live in the near future if we do not put a definitive stop to certain behaviors, I would say atavics, in the political and business culture of Spain. From our point of view, the Castor project has already started addicted to origin in its own approach. Indeed, we had to face the strategic weaknesses of a country like ours, which is so dependent on exhaustible fossil resources and which, moreover, does not possess. But instead of having made sense, that is, to bet decisively on investing in clean and renewable energy, the Government decided in 2008 to embark on a pharaonic project to further delve into a decadent, contaminating energy model, which was already condemned. Therefore, fill in today with the procedure entrusted to us, but let us make sure that not a single euro of public money goes back to the development, exploration or exploitation of these sources of energy. And what better opportunity than the climate change law that this House is currently dealing with. The second sin of the Castor was to fall into the arms of a certain great Spanish capital, the one who has lived his entire life from the State's breast, to the point of paralyzing it. I refer, in particular, to the capital represented by Mr Florentino Pérez, a man known for his patriotic dedication to himself, and who achieved some compensation clauses in the concessions that even he, in his generosity towards Spain, would not have been able to imagine. I am also referring to those responsible for the Bank of Santander, Bankia, CaixaBank, who came to get the rights to collect Enagas, attracted by their carrionous smell by the high and disproportionate interests that the contracts carried. Therefore, please comply with the judicial requirement we are being asked for, but let us not forget that the general interest must prevail, and that if entrepreneurs are entitled to economic benefit it is because they assume business risks, which they cannot then discharge over the State. The third aggravation comes from the hands of the judicial dome and the Supreme, who has not had a means of neglecting what on other occasions would call reasons of state, to ensure that the interests created are not touched. Justice is literally set up; instead of scales, it is done with ram horns, for the permanent ram against government action. Therefore, here his sentence, yes, but not for that we will never cease to vehemently criticize his actions when we believe that they respond first to his class or party interests than to the high functions for which they are called. The last and unforgivable aggravation of the Castor, perhaps the most tragic, has to do with the continued neglect that has been suffered by the populations directly affected by this great fiasco. Lower Ebro areas, the Baix Maestrat regions, Terres de l'Ebre, citizens of Vinaroz, Alcanar and other cities that suffered in their lives, houses and farms the countless earthquakes caused by the project; citizens who do not know whether or not they will be returned some of the land uselessly expropriated; who today see how a single piece of the maritime or land installations has not yet been dismantled, despite having already met the deadlines for public exposure and tender for this attack; who live in front of a gigantic gas fireplace sealed by a temporary device, whose expiry has expired months ago; who have not, in short, seen a single person responsible for such shit asking sincere apologies for the damage caused during these years. Therefore, please complete the sentence, okay, but we will not fail to urge the Government to make the same effort that it has made in drafting this text to comply with the commitments made for the definitive sealing of the Castor, and the restoration of the natural and maritime spaces, which should never have been affected. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u149	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree that we have come to validate today consists of two articles, one to correct the government's - another - oblivion in Royal Decree 20/2020, so that the most needy do not pay IRPF for the minimum living income, with which we fully agree, and the other article to remedy errors in the past of the two political parties that have ruled this country in the last fifteen years, to compensate the powerful bankers, named by the members of this government, with millions of dollars. In this sense, it is therefore a royal decree-law aligned with the legislative dynamics of this Government, which takes advantage of the health, economic and social crisis to regulate by royal decree-law matters absolutely unrelated to it. I agree with you, Mr Baldoví - in this I agree - but do you remember the Royal Decree 11/2020, which you, for example, voted yes in the 9 April session? This rule included a Government Bizum of 15 million euros to private televisions by the back door. Focusing on Article 1, Minister, do you think it is a receipt that seven months ago the minimum living income is approved and you forget to include in the rule the issue of taxation? This is disdain and this lack of diligence costs the Spaniards money: today, session in Congress, lights on, more shot at the BOE; in short, taxpayers' money in political arrangements and patches. And if we talk about the government's management of minimum living income, we could sum up in one sentence: promises do not fill the stomach. I'll give you the background. On 29 May, the Council of Ministers states that minimum living income will reach 850 000 households, in which 2.3 million people live, with a special impact on households where minors live, and that it will involve the practice of eradicating extreme poverty, which currently affects 1.6 million people. What they did not say is when all this will happen, like that of the joke: it will come, but not today, tomorrow. On June 10, Mr. Iglesias and Mr. Escriva came up to this rostrum to talk about filling refrigerators, eradicating poverty and social exclusion. Today, seven months later, 80% of those refrigerators remain empty and we have more Spaniards at risk of poverty. To this 80% we add those who have run out of work in these months, because the government has forced them to close their bar or those who can no longer survive because they don't sell a sock. Where is the success of the anti-poverty vaccine that Mr. Iglesias announced on drums and plates? Effective measures are the ones that materialize and achieve their objectives; theirs instead, in addition to improvised ones, remain in mere promises. And the Government must be aware of the resources available to the Administration to care for the citizen. Mr Escriva cannot come to say that the delays are due to an unprecedented workload in social security, insufficient staffing, obsolete computer equipment. You are illusionists and charlatans, two very old and fashionable trades. If you already knew all this before implementing the minimum living income, why did you make the citizens believe that you can? Ladies and gentlemen, works are love and not good reasons. And some say patriotism is not measured by flags. And I say to you that with the role of the State Official Gazette the refrigerator is neither filled nor the receipt of the light is paid. [[Applauds]] By the way, they could already get to work on lowering it, because when they are interested it turns out that Europe oppresses us, excuses for disgovernment is the next book they could publish. The minimum vital income is not charged, the pantry remains empty and the self-employed closing thousands, but the notifications of the Tax Agency arrive in time and form to the taxpayers. Why don't you use the tax agency's certain means and systems to get the minimum living income to families who need it with the same agility and promptness? The result of improvisation and inefficiency in management is that public money does not reach the citizen. Now, you do make sure you collect your allowance every month. Do we ask for sacrifices from the citizens? Yeah. Do we sacrifice the ones we rule? No, no, And as long as you do not take responsibility for your actions, in real, constant and sounding terms, the system will remain addicted. I'm going to the second article of this royal decree-law. We're going to pay for the mistakes of the past. The government of Zapatero was not diligent in awarding the Castor project, a pharaonic gas storage project, but you, gentlemen of the PP, finish with your Royal Decree-Law 13/2014, today declared unconstitutional. During the plenary sessions held in this House on the occasion of this matter - matter with investigated ministers, managers of the concessionary company prosecuted - you did not stop throwing the mess at your head. The show of the PSOE-PP duo, one breaks up and the other takes it further, and then the turn opponents come asking for commissions of inquiry, but for what? Are you going to answer any charges from the Zapatero Government or the Rajoy Government for their incompetence and pay the more than €1,350 million to which the Supreme Court condemns us? No, no, For those who are seeing us from their homes the responsibility of the State means that it will be the usual ones: the Spaniards based on their effort and their taxes who pay the bill. The only responsibilities assumed at the moment in this case were Mr Zapatero's statements to the press, which he said he hoped that things would be rationally substantiated, because if things were done wrong they had to be fixed. But how easy it is to apologize and then go to the Council of State. And in 2014 governing the PP the Minister of Industry, Mr. Soria, when he submits to validation his unconstitutional royal decree today to fix the disguised Zapatero, talks about the possibility of asking for responsibilities if proceeding to the contracting company. And in all these years have you, gentlemen of the PP, tried to clear up some responsibility for the said ones? Pasapalabra. Look, those of us who in those years were not in politics or close and dedicated to working on the other side of these walls could not think that years later we would see the count of their dislates passed from the General Budgets of the State, at a tragic time for Spain in which the Spaniards are ruined and the Ministry of Finance will use more than 638 million euros to cover their black holes. By the way, minister, speaking of black holes, when do you intend to bring in the rebalancing plan? [[The lady]] I'm done. Any estate administrator if he is not diligent in his task is required a responsibility, you very much like to enact laws for others - derivation of liability to corporate directors in tax matters, in social security matters, sanctions - but when it comes to assuming responsibility for managing the estate of all Spaniards you close ranks and pay the citizen. It is unacceptable that the political responsibility of the person making the wrong decisions is diluted and reduced to an apology or a dimension, and until this changes the Castor case will be one of many who will continue to discredit the legal certainty in Spain and what is even worse, balancing the Spanish workers and families and ultimately our compatriots. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Madam spokesman for VOX, that PP-PSOE equidistance, after saving the government of Pedro Sánchez this afternoon, does not hang, gentlemen of VOX. Don't hang up. [[Applauds]] We are here for the validation of a royal decree-law in which they have put a little of everything: enforcement of judgments, modification of fiscal measures, economic regime of the Canary Islands and of course minimum vital income. Of course, the minister responsible - if he is still responsible - for minimum living income is not in this plenary, but we are not surprised. And I start with this last one: the starry measure of the government that intended to pretend to be a social government. We already have three royal decrees, plus other specific amendments, this same morning the minister announced more amendments, more self-amendments in the royal decree of minimum living income. And let's see what they have done in this, a reduction in the taxation of the beneficiaries of the minimum income so that the benefit is exempt in the IRPF in the same terms as the benefits established by the autonomous communities in the concept of minimum income of insertion. Why, then, in the Royal Decree 20/2020 with which they approve the minimum income for candy and platter they forget that this benefit should be exempt? Why didn't you just copy, if you didn't know how to do it, what communities and municipalities were doing? Yes, those very communities against which you always strike, who have decided to support with their own resources the beneficiaries of the minimum income to whom you have left at the stand and who are already demanding management in the face of your manifest inability; not those of the PP but yours, Minister, those of the PSOE, like that of the Balearic Islands. And why a new royal decree, instead of introducing it as an amendment in the two that are being processed in Congress? Do you intend to extend the deadline further? Are they unable to agree? Do they not know how to solve the nonsense of eliminating child benefits, discrimination against young people or people with disabilities? If last December we counted them as 70% of the people accompanied by Caritas who have applied for minimum income are still waiting for a response, today we want to talk about the poverty data published a few days ago by Oxfam Intermón. Ladies and gentlemen, 790 000 people have fallen into severe poverty in Spain due to COVID-19; the total number of people in this situation could reach 5.1 million, in addition to a million more people below the poverty line, which would already reach 11 million people. Intermon also tells us that if the minimum living income had been fully implemented, not only in the 160,000 households that currently receive it compared to the 850,000 they promised, 277,000 people would have been saved from poverty and severe poverty would have been reduced by 230 000. And you come here, minister, this afternoon and have the dare to continue talking about the social policy of the government? You have disconnected from the reality of the street and from the suffering of the citizens. Of course, because with the minimum income it happens to you as with the vaccine, gentlemen of the government. Who was going to tell them that after the propaganda it had to be administered, who was going to tell them that after the advertising campaign of minimum income it had to be paid. Unmanaged Propaganda is deception and cheating on the weakest is scam, it's your social scam. In addition, they continue to cut support to families, refusing to eliminate high-ranking positions to allocate 71 million to child poverty, as requested by the People's Party, all of which, while a new poverty is being consolidated. Restorative, autonomous, administrative, industrial workers are the people who come to the so-called queues of hunger, which are but the queues of this government's shame. All this, as long as they raise the VAT from the light and deny three times as many applications for admission as they grant, or threaten to eliminate the electric bonus to large families. This Congress will therefore have to amend the mistakes of a minister who has come to give lessons to everyone and who in the first policy he has had to manage has failed dramatically. Yes, yesterday he acknowledged that the conciliation policies in Spain are poorly designed; we share it - the Plan Me Care has also been a great deception - but, please - a plea - do not let Mr Escrivá design them. Let me now turn to two other issues also covered in this royal decree, the first, the payment of sentences for different compensations. The compensation for the underground storage of Castor is a problem generated by the Socialist Government in 2008 by eliminating any conditionality and dealing with an emergency category, a subject on which we are not surprised that neither is the Minister of Ecological Transition, who signed the environmental statement, and several senior officials who worked under his orders, who are charged with prevarication and fraud to the Administration. Of those muds, this compensation that, although it closes now, we must remember that we are paying all users in our monthly gas bill. The second is the modification of the canary REF to extend the period of materialization of the canary investment reserve, which under normal conditions would expire in 2020, but which they want to lead - we understand the exceptional - to 2021. One question: If it was so urgent, why did they vote against the amendments of the People's Party to the general budgets that called for an extension of the deadline until December 2022? If they had, I'd already be at the BOE and they'd have saved themselves the ridiculousity of expanding it again. But, dear comrades, we are not surprised: in Balearic Islands they have approved a false REF and in the first general budgets, where they had to equip the factor of insularity, not only leave it steel but veto the amendments of the People's Party. They keep lying with everything and everything, but they only deceive those who let themselves be deceived. But we will vote in favour, we will vote in favour for responsibility and to amend their irresponsibility, that irresponsibility that leaves the most vulnerable at the stand and that leads us to the situation that we now have: the worst managed health crisis, the only government that does not know how to deal with the economic crisis...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u153	Mrs. Prohens, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u154	The only government that leaves industry, tourism, hospitality, hairdressing, trade and the only government that in the middle of the third wave, with more than 500 dead, is not a vaccination campaign but an electoral campaign. We're all sorry, we're all sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u156	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you Minister, for the explanation of this royal decree-law, an exhaustive and rigorous explanation of what you intend to collect in two articles and in two final provisions this royal decree. I will not go into the final provisions because there seems to be no debate in the course of the speeches, but I will go into the two points in the articles, where there seems to be debate. There is no question of exemption in the IRPF for the recipients of this income in the minimum living income, but there is a debate about its functioning. Do you know why they can question its functioning? Because there is. [[Applauds]] Because, finally, there is a progressive Government in this country concerned with providing security, providing a network for the most vulnerable people and families and, above all, for children at risk of child poverty. It's a new right. Double morality appears here again, in this Congress, on the part of the right and the right. Looks like we have to thank them now. Yesterday they called him Paguita, they called him chollo, they called them vagos and they said they were going to commit fraud, they put all the qualifying adjectives on them and now they defend him in excess. That's why we can talk about his double morale. Mrs Prohens was now reading to us the data on poverty. I haven't read them in a while, have I? Poverty is not a short-term issue, but it is a structural problem in this country. Every year, Mrs Prohens, every year different international bodies, through their different statistics, have been reminding us and making us colorful because our redistribution system is unfair. And what have they done? Nothing, nothing. According to Eurostat, we have the silver medal in child poverty. What have they done? Nothing. Now yes, today he reads the data on poverty and that's why, yes, we talk about his double morality and giving lessons. You are always late, today you have shown it with the minimum vital income, but to the entire realization of rights you are late. See how much time they need to claim and understand that dying in life is not living. We'll see about that. Let's go back to minimum income. We have to understand why more people have not been reached. We're doing it, we're working from the ministry. It can be because of the bureaucracy, because of the lack of workers, because of the policies of cuts -6000 workers less than ten years ago are now working in Social Security -. It is important to analyse all the dossiers, the refusals and, if necessary, the standard is used in order to be able to adjust it. The Minister's appearance will take place this afternoon. I prefer a government - probably the majority of citizens - capable of adjusting the rule, capable of being amended, capable of correcting, than a government that gives total indifference to poverty and the needs of this country. If we have to amend them, we have to amend ourselves; if we have to correct the rule, it is corrected, but the law remains, and we will work to ensure that this right is consolidated and never again, governs who rules, can disappear. [[Applauds]] The other article of the royal decree - which has also been discussed here - refers to the case of the Castor project. This thing we want to hide, that we're going to put it in some way so it doesn't look... But if you put it in the title: '... enforcement of sentences'. Article 2: Judgment in the Castor case. From hiding, nothing. Have they not been able to think how normal it is that the sentence should come in December, with which a royal decree is made in December in order to be able to comply with this sentence? Can't we think about normal? No, let's get him mixed up. Well, it makes it very clear up there, in the royal decree. I've heard that if we're led by a gentleman, that we're led by a lady, that we're led by the banks, that we're led by the powers... Neither. Here we are guided only by the principle of legality and by the enforcement of a sentence. This is a real decree which seeks to give budgetary scope to the payment for the execution of a judgment. Of those muds, this compensation, says Mrs Prohens, reminds us of the first article. No, you're wrong. Of those muds is not this compensation. This compensation, Mrs Prohens, is because the Constitutional Court annulled and declared unconstitutional all the financial engineering that you created in 2014 to pay the compensation in a very quick way. By means of an urgent royal decree-law, in thirty days everything was forgotten and it was we, the socialists, who brought an appeal to the Constitutional Court. A renouncing concessionaire, Enagas, who is charged to pay the compensation in exchange for a right of collection, a right of collection that could be assigned to a third party, surrendered to the third party, the bank paid the compensation, all this financial engineering declared unconstitutional. That's why we're here today amending this sentence. There was a great outrage over a final solution that was given to the project. What will happen now, did Mr. Ferran Bel say? Now what? Now, wait for the court rulings. As you know, there are still different open court rulings, and under no circumstances has any responsibility been waived, nor has the Supreme Court renounced. Mr. Bel said that nothing is closed here. Allow me a nuance: let Castor close. At the Council of Ministers of 31 October 2019: end of compensation, wells are sealed and dismantling started. Our group will support the royal decree-law and its processing as a bill because somehow, as we said, we also have to comply with the execution of sentences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u158	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the full proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary in office. Four amendments to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. For the defence of their respective amendments, Mr Bal Francés is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u159	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, at this beginning of the session. This from the Organic Law of the Judiciary and from meddling with the General Council of the Judiciary, by the Socialist Group and the United Podemos Group, seems to be the day of the marmot. I no longer know how many times I have come to this rostrum to defend the independence of the judiciary from the attacks of the Government, of the executive branch. This reform of the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary - as I said in the process of taking into account this draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary - is truly an insult, a real provocation. The Ministry of Justice, of course, is not making sound decisions in relation to the public service of justice when the Government appoints the Minister of Justice as the Attorney General of the State, or when it refuses to depoliticize the institution of the Prosecutor's Office, or when it has even registered in this Congress of Deputies a proposal to change the majority to the Executive by an absolute majority, i.e. by the same number of deputies who support the Government, those who designate all the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. They seem to do us a favor and tell us that they will not process it, that they will not take advantage of the quota, etc., when it is their obligation to respect the independence of the judiciary and to respect the separation of powers. It is truly alarming this interference that the Executive Power makes on the Judicial Power by attacking its independence. In addition, this conduct is committed, committed with premeditation and affluence, in terms proper to criminal law. On a premeditated basis because, first, we are faced with this law which claims that only by absolute majority are all the members of the General Council of the Judiciary elected and is voted against the proposal of my Parliamentary Group Citizens to depoliticize the General Council of the Judiciary and to elect its twelve members of judicial extraction through direct election between judges and magistrates. In addition, we find that the urgency procedure is used in this procedure; a super-accelerated procedure with an extraordinarily short deadline for tabling amendments. The truth is, when I go to the bar for coffee, the waiter asks me, how's it going with the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Bal? Indeed, it is an extraordinary concern that strikes the Spanish population today. That is why I understand, by pure logic, that you are very interested in enabling the month of January to speed up this reform of the powers over appointments of the General Council of the Judiciary that greatly concerns the Spanish population, to process the appointments of the management of Spanish Radiotelevision - which is also a topic that is on the street - but not for Minister Illa to come and talk about the pandemic. What pandemic? Do we have an epidemic? According to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of Podemos, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that does not seem to concern the Spanish population. What matters logically is that Mr Illa's image as a candidate is not tarnished by his disastrous management as a minister of health; that is all they care about, not the well-being of the Spaniards, not saving life, not saving jobs, not subjecting themselves to the control of this House. No, they're interested in questioning the judiciary, naming and directing Spanish Radio Television, but Mr. Illa is safe. In addition, you also carried out this attack with lightness. Alevosy supposes first to take advantage of superiority. You are arithmetically counting your votes, those of the Frankenstein government, and you intend to pass over the opposition, no longer with a roller, but with an apisonator. You are already limiting the opposition's political participation rights simply by an arithmetic sum; you have little respect for democracy and the political participation of the rest of the groups. Awe also assumes that one acts by avoiding the defense that the offender has to do, and this is exactly what you do. Last week, the General Council of the Judiciary itself asked you to be heard, not since you listen to it, but simply for this Congress to listen to the General Council of the Judiciary. And do you know how many magistrates have ordered this? Sixteen out of twenty, including some who bear the label of progressives, but who still retain dignity, even though they are called progressives, in the face of this attack on the judicial independence that you commit. I went to the dictionary of the Spanish Royal Academy and I found, surprisingly, a new sense of relief - which is not technical, which is vulgar and there it is - which says that relief also means betrayal and disloyalty. Yes, that is exactly what you are doing: the betrayal of the constitutional balance of powers, the separation of powers and the disloyalty of respect for the independence of the judiciary. Yes, there are aggravating premeditation and avalanches in this process of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to reform the powers over appointments. As I said in the procedure under consideration, what do you intend to do? First of all, they want to weaken the judiciary; they want to drive it crazy; they want it to die of starvation; they want a famile judiciary that you read uncomfortable because it controls you and your government partners, United We can, with the amount of judicial matters that are going on and weighing on them. You do not want the General Council of the Judiciary to appoint the presidents of the hearings, the TSJs, the chambers of the National Court, the judges of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, the director of the Judicial School, the vice-president of the Supreme Court, the Promoter of Disciplinary Action or the head of the Court Inspection. Look, what charges do you want not to be named, because you want to name them so you can control the judges. This morning the presidents of the Provincial Court of Balearics, Cantabria, Granada, León and Ciudad Real have been appointed. In this situation, three judges of the Second Chamber, the Presidents of the Third Chamber, the Fourth Chamber and the Fifth Chamber, have been appointed. In the last round of appointments, Pablo Aramendi, a great social judge, has been appointed, in whose Social Court number 33 of Madrid I have had the honour to act, president of the Social Chamber of the National High Court, by seventeen votes out of twenty. You will consider the appointment of David Ordóñez in the High Court of Justice of Asturias illegitimate; you will consider the appointment of MaríaJosé Renedo in the High Court of Justice of Castile-Leon based in Burgos illegitimate; you will consider the appointment of Joaquín González Case unlawful by eighteen votes out of twenty. They are all perfectly legal and legitimate appointments. You claim that the judicial power of starvation dies. Do you claim that there are not enough judges in the Supreme Court so that when Puigdemont comes, once they grant him the supplication, we do not have judges to judge him? May this be done together We can, one can understand, but may you, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do so after you have ruled this country, without respect for the institutions of this country, cry to heaven. They want to pressure the People's Party to participate in the sharing of bipartisan chromosomes, but get out of that dream, bipartisanism is over, the system is blocked. They only have the option of unlocking the system by voting in favour of the alternative text that Citizens propose: that these twelve members be elected by judges and magistrates and that the procedure be not controlled by the judicial associations. In our system any judge can be presented with the endorsement of only twenty-five judges, unlike the system proposed by VOX or the one proposed by the People's Party, which ultimately falls into the criticism you make, because they replace the parties with judicial, progressive or conservative associations. In the Citizens' system this is not the case, parties are not replaced by associations. Please listen to the Spanish Constitutional Court which prefers this system in Judgment 108/1986, to all the associations of judges, judges and prosecutors, to the Civic Platform for Judicial Independence, to the European Association of Judges and Judges and also to the European Commission, to the Vice-President of the Commission, Vera Jourová, who has just said that she is very concerned about what is going on with Spain, to Commissioner Reynders, who has just said that we cannot politicize, as we are trying to do in Spain, the direction of the judges, that we must adopt any reform on the direction of the judiciary with calm, counting on the opposition and always with broad majority - exactly the opposite of what you are doing with this draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary - to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Poland. You want my country, Spain, to look like a country which is ruled by the ultra-right and which is an absolutely authoritarian system, and finally, to listen to the Venice Commission because it will take our colours out sooner or later. I assure you that the lawyers of this country will die of shame because they tell us that Spain does not respect democratic quality systems and standards. Furthermore, there is a risk that the principle of democratic conditionality in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union will be put into effect and that frugal countries will use this as an excuse to withdraw European aid. Please think about it, because you are getting into a tremendous garden that can end the good name of our country in the world. Finally, they want to name their own, they want to name their friends in these positions. That's why they don't want me to name them the current General Council of the Judiciary. What happens, who are afraid when the ERE cassation appeal reaches the Supreme Court? Are you afraid of your corruption cases? Are you afraid that any of your mayors who have missed the vaccination protocol may be denounced and given a conviction? That is what they want to do: to replace the infamous Wasaps of Cosidó with the Wasaps of Mr Simancas, or the Wasaps of Mr Campo, the Minister of Justice. That's what they want, to control justice. That's why I'm telling you that you're driving the other way around. We all drive in the right direction. Get out of justice, please. Reform the system and run everything probably in February or March we get a new General Council of the depoliticized and independent judiciary, as Europe wants and as we want in Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u160	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Alonso Cuevillas and Mr Sayrol.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u161	Madam President, Minister for Justice - oh, no, you are not here! - I am going to refer in particular to the two main parliamentary groups. Hearing them, it seems that the General Council of the Judiciary and Justice in general are their great concern. I don't know if it happens to you, too, like Mr. Bal, that when you're about to have a coffee, you talk about the General Council of the Judiciary, that doesn't happen to me. But I am very afraid, in the light of the facts, that both the PSOE and the PP, the two major groups, justice and the General Council of the Judiciary bring them without care. They bring them without care, why we have about a dozen speeches throughout the legislature talking about judicial issues and never the President of the Government and never the leader of the opposition have been present to listen to any of these debates, even though the clothes are then torn. All they're interested in is the distribution of chromes, the distribution of charges in the judiciary. For thirty-five years the charges have been handed over in an immoral way; so immoral that they even agree - it has been filtered out and they have recognized it without any redundancy - who will be the president of the next General Council of the Judiciary Before the vowels that should freely choose the president are chosen. Thirty-five years with that. This General Council of the Judiciary serves to hold high office in the judiciary, which, as has already been shown, can then apply the criminal law of the friend, not in the case of an ERE or a master's degree reaching the Supreme Court Chambers. As I said, they do not really care what happens and use the General Council of the Judiciary in an impudent way to make opposition when there is a change of political majority. It has not happened once or twice, but already three times in recent years. When there is a change of political majorities - in particular, when a government of sign comes calling it progressive, let's say the benches of the left - the Council stands as a counterpower. So, the right, which has no incentive to unlock it - obviously, it has no incentive, that situation goes well with it - blocks the renovation and you from the left tear your clothes: it's normal, you have no incentive. They are therefore reacting to this situation and trying to resolve it. They brought us first, a few months ago, a proposal for reform of the organic law that, as soon as it began to circulate, I suppose it made them climb the colors and they have left it forgotten in a drawer; that proposal that, after not getting the reinforced majority, passed to an absolute majority totally contrary to the minimum separation of powers that even from Europe have had to censor them. They have left it parked and now they are bringing us another proposal that I think is going to pass to the analysts of the legislative technique, of the bad legislative technique. First - it's not the first time that it happens - because they bring it through the proposal of law. It is the Government and should bring things forward through a bill, and not through a bill to skip preceptive procedures: fraud of law in the use of the text that does allow for regulation. And second, because what they do with this bill is that, before a sick person who is in a serious state, they decide to intervene, but not to cure him. The intervention is not to cure the disease, but to keep it sick but to stop screaming, to stop bothering. You are seeking through a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to diminish, limit the powers of a Council in office. But the same price, that is, the reform by absolute majority of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, allows to reform the root of the problem, which is the election of the Council's members. You know that, it's obvious. Only that will allow no further blocking situations to occur. You bring this proposal to see if it will put pressure on the PP. Don't be mistaken, you're not going to press it, because you, each and every one of you, the system is already going well. The system works for them because they have been deciding in an office for thirty-five years who are the twenty members of the next Council, sometimes with some Basque or Catalan when we were doing well, or with someone from the orbit of Podemos, but basically deciding those responsible for the justice of the PP and the PSOE. They therefore bring us this proposal, which they know is not going to solve the problem. The thing is very simple, there are only two ways, and one is the one that proposes the right, that it be the judges themselves who choose the members of the judiciary. That many of us do not like because we know that the Judicial Power is too shunned into conservative or ultra-conservative positions and, therefore, it scares us. We refer to the facts: Judicial Ethics Commission. Where judges have been able to choose their representatives, the representation has been very escorted to the right and the far right. And the other possibility is the parliamentary election. The parliamentary election by reinforced quorum, which the Constitution requires only for four and four, leads us to that blockade, which is already the third time that it has taken place in these years. That is why we propose another solution, and it is that they are chosen in the same way that we choose the Bureaus of Congress and the Senate, so that each Member can only vote one part - we say four, but could be two, six or three, it is the same - to guarantee plurality, as is guaranteed in the Bureaus. I know that our proposal is not going to be accepted. Among other things, the people who are watching us - if anyone is watching us - do not know, but the deadline for voting this is long gone. Therefore, most Members have voted, so I don't know why we go out here; for social media. I hope you'll get me out one day on a TV3 show called Any more questions, because with our speech we're not going to convince anyone. The majority will therefore reject the amendment, but they will continue to have the problem when it comes to the Committee on Justice and sooner or later they will have to deal with the way the Council is elected. If they do not do so by means of a satisfactory formula, when the right again sends it will impose the election on them by the judges and magistrates themselves. I won't see him. I'm sure it's my last plenary. If the High Court of Justice of Catalonia does not decide anything else, after the elections on 14 February I will cease to be a Member of this House, and therefore I will not see how they evolve - I will see it through the international channels -. [[Rumors]] I wish you luck. I hope you can end up reforming a very sick democracy that you have, I wish you luck. As we do not believe that such reform is possible after many years of trying, we will continue to make our way for the construction of an independent Catalan republic. By the way, I did not want to forget, Mr Bal: the Council has nothing to do with bringing Puigdemont or not, it depends on foreign courts and Puigdemont will not come here because they will deny it. In short, I said I won't see him, but I wish you luck. I hope you can reform a judicial system and a democratic system, a democracy full of holes. I wish they could reform it, and as the song says, you had a very long life and you had a lot of luck. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u162	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group itself, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u163	Thank you very much, President. I love the smell of napalm I smell this afternoon here in the rows on the right. Today the CIS has emerged - we should look more at it by the Members - and, with regard to the first concern, one in three citizens says that health is their first concern and the lack of resources against this pandemic. That's why I came up with a question that I think comes to mind for all parties, including mine, but especially for the PSOE and the PP: When do they intend to demand the resignation of those mayors, exploited public offices that have been illegally vaccinated? And if they don't resign, what are they waiting for to kick them out? In my land there are five who are whistling, looking at the roof and making themselves Swedish: Nutia, Rafelbuñol, El Verger, Els Poblets and Orihuela. It's a matter of decency. I was mayor, mayor of Sweden, I was eighteen days in office. The president of my autonomous community has been three weeks. The President of the Government is a few days or a few months. The General Council of the Judiciary has been in office for years, and, worse still, it continues to make appointments and intends to continue making appointments. I ask the PP to have a respect for the forms, to accept democratic rules and to allow, once and for all, renewal. And I end with a reflection that I have heard many times from Iñigo Errejón or the Valencian columnist Salvador Vendrell: How many judges come from humble families? Few, very few. It is an opposition that costs five years to approve, that the preparer is 200 euros a month and that is very difficult to reconcile with the work. Justice must be democratised, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u165	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. PSOE and Podemos intend to place a small patch in a problem that is structural, a problem that is not whether the PP agrees or not the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary for partisan interests. It goes beyond and has to do with justice at the service of the 78th regime, which operates on political criteria and is left with Spanishism and lack, very lack of democracy. But PSOE and PP agreed on a so-called Transition that prevented, among other things, a democratic break with the dictatorship and, therefore, a deep democratization of the structures of the state, including justice, in which there was an obvious continuity and ideological reproduction from Francoism until now. Moreover, PSOE and PP have come to divide the judiciary over the past forty years, even so far, that they do not agree. As we have already said in the discussion, it seems to us that the powers of the Council in office are limited, although that does not solve the main problem. We will therefore reject the amendments on the right. We will vote, yes, in favour of the one tabled by Junts per Catalunya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposal presented to us for debate by the Socialist Group and Podemos is a magnificent and extraordinary opportunity for all the groups in this House to be portrayed, but not before that House, before the Spanish, and to be told what model of justice they believe in, whether or not they believe in the rule of law, whether or not they believe in the division of powers, whether or not they believe in the independence of the judiciary. That is what is being debated today. As a result, article 122 of the Constitution and the Organic Law of 1980 were very clear: the judges, in their governing body, the General Council of the Judiciary, had to be independent of the politicians, and twelve of their twenty members could be elected from among judges and magistrates. The proposal of the Government of Illia, that terrible nightmare for Spain, is a proposal that follows in the same line: to control the election of the judicial bodies through the General Council of the Judiciary, and, more specifically, the election of the high judges, presidents of hearings, chambers and magistrates of the Supreme, in short, to continue with the obscene division that was already started with the repeal of the 1980 Act in 1985 with that Montesquieu has died from the Socialist Party, 1985 Act, which is summed up in the following: the Judiciary is controlled by the politicians and here we are going to distribute the letters and the chromes in arduous political negotiation. And in this hidden proposition, saying that the problem is that the General Council of the Judiciary is blocked - then we will talk about why the blockade takes place - that that General Council of the blocked Judiciary must be restricted its powers, and must not have competence for the election of the high judiciary; that is, to work yes, that is, the head of the inspection cannot be elected, but they must continue to do the inspection functions, the judges cannot be elected, but the General Council must continue to do its work in the control of the judges, etc. Here everything is summed up in the same, it is the system to be able to choose also the high magistrates. There have been a number of amendments to the whole. I'll talk about some of them. For example, the amendment of 'jointly against Catalonia'. They remain in the same line, that justice must be controlled and that justice must continue to be politicized. But here they add a concept to which I am going to refer, because I think it is very original. They introduce the concept of parity, which rhymes with parity, because it is a monumental parity what they are saying. [[Applauds]] Look, how curious! Let's make a logical analysis of what they say. They state that the twelve judges and magistrates must be six men and six women. What discrimination against women! And if it turns out that the best are twelve women, why can't they be two women? [[Applauds]] But, look, if you're against that quota-sharing criterion, six men and six women, you know: you're a sexist. And following the same logic, why not six heterosexuals and six homosexuals? If you don't agree with that criterion, it's a homophobe. Why not six blacks and six whites? If you're against that, you're a racist. Why not six believers and six atheists? How you're against that criterion, you're Torquemada. This is what some people understand by the quota. [[Applauds]] Of course, after what we've heard this afternoon, talking about the smell of napalm or the fact that this General Council of the Judiciary is very shunned to the right... Evidently, they want you to score very to the left, but you're still being scored. Then there is the amendment to the totality of Citizens, to whom in the City Hall of Madrid from now on we call the veil of the wall: one day the wall is removed from the extreme left, another day the wall is left; the right, the left, the right, you know, the yenka, the party of the orange yenka. Here the reality is that this group, which succeeds, at least, in the line of wanting to defend by and between, between and by, falls and buys the goods of the left also on the quota, also on the parity. In this they are experts of Citizens, buying the broken goods of the left. And the People's Party is coming. Allow me, with all my affection, to say that the People's Party in this is like Miss Pepis's Suitcase, they're the make-up party. But what credibility does the People's Party have, that when it was in the government, when it had legislative majorities - for example, Organic Law of 2001, Organic Law of 2013 - did not change the substantial? Nothing that judges and magistrates could choose for and from among the twelve vocal members of the General Council of the Judiciary, none of that, to continue sharing the quota. What happens is that when the quota is not shared by them, they get great. But we already know what the People's Party does: one thing is what it says when it's not in government and another is what it does when it's in government. Credibility, zero; so little you have to notice, I recalled that 1986 unconstitutionality appeal against the law of the Socialist Party. Do you know who filed this appeal? The People's Party - it was called the People's Alliance at the time -, and justly did the opposite for its Minister of Justice when he arrived at the Government with an absolute majority. By the way, from that unconstitutionality appeal - from those dusts, these muds - came the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1986, which committed the barbarity of violating the Constitution itself by accepting for good a system of sharing quotas of power in the judiciary that precisely violate this principle of judicial independence. That's right, the magistrates, as they had to hide a little, told us that dialectic scarecrows had occurred. Man, dialectic scarecrows, but the reality is that the predictions made by that court have been fulfilled by rajatabla. Since then, since 1985, the abuse of political parties in justice has been terrible. Finally, our amendment to the whole with alternative text. It is summed up in a very simple way: we recover the system of 1980, twelve members elected by and between judges and magistrates, with a free vote, with a direct vote, with a secret vote and with an equal vote, and, of course, the remaining eight according to what the Constitution says, but, yes, proposing the reform of the regulations of the Chambers so that, at least, they do not dilate unnecessarily over time. We have already mentioned this afternoon the agreement of the General Council of the Judiciary which recriminates the Bureau why it has not requested a report from it. Look, here the important thing is not whether you asked for a report or not, here the important thing is why you didn't ask for a report. Because the majority that politically conforms the current General Council of the Judiciary does not agree with the parliamentary majority, that is, there is no political connection, there is no feeling. If it had been the other way around, they would have appeared with the report, endorsing the proposals of the Government team. It is always the same: either justice does what I want or paralysed its powers in choosing charges. [[Applauds]] The Platform for Judicial Independence has denounced to the European Parliament and the Commission what is happening, it has called it an assault on power, because, in the end, it is intended to colonise the institutions, starting with the judiciary. What we are debating here today is nothing more than a squeeze of nuts against the judiciary, a squeeze that adds to the control of the state's attorney general, to the investigation of criminal proceedings by prosecutors, removing them from judges; to the attempt to change the majorities of three-five by an absolute majority, which was withdrawn by political negotiation, not by another question; to have the seats of judges and magistrates in no number of insufficiency, compared to the European average, that is, a justice drowned in their own affairs, without the necessary human and material means. Look at you, I am doing this reflection, which I am sure will be done at this time by many Spaniards and also by many judges and magistrates. Judges and career magistrates have only had two paths left for forty years with this model of interference: either they are looking for a political godfather to climb the judicial ladder and reach the high judicial level of the State or, if they maintain their independence and neutrality, they clash against a glass roof that prevents them from prospering in their career, because, as the Group of States against Corruption and the Venice Commission said, it is one of the greatest attacks against democracy and the rule of law. The current situation of justice and the attempts to continue to control from politicians its body of management and political control, which is the Council of the Judiciary, is nothing more than to accept the lie, what we could call the ideological perversion that is based on, according to the criterion of the progress that has been bought by the cowardly right, in which, as justice emanates from the people, that means that politicians control justice. This is the great lie: justice emanates from the people that politicians control justice. Don't get confused, this is the Legislature. We Spaniards democratically choose our representatives, who are the passers-by of laws and regulations; that is the Legislature. But those Spaniards who freely want to choose the judicial profession, the judicial career, after approving their legal career and approving their hard opposition become public servants independent of the Legislative Power. They are not to comply with the orders of this House, they are to comply with and enforce the laws emanating from this House, which is very different from political control. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Spaniards need to know: the aberration that implies that from this House we are trying to control the governing body of the judges, the General Council of the Judiciary, and the power that it has in appointing judges of the high authorities or the judiciary. We, from VOX, will oppose each and every attempt to control the Judicial Power by some, by others, by others and by some. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u169	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the governing partners of the Socialist Party and Podemos have led two clear attacks on the independence of the judiciary with two proposals for legislation: one to lower the threshold of votes necessary for the election of the twelve members of the judiciary and the other to limit the powers of the General Council of the judiciary when it is in office, especially to limit its ability to make appointments. The latter, which is precisely the subject of this debate and which, as you have said, is carried out by the urgency procedure, amendments have been tabled to the whole with an alternative text by four political groups, including the Group of the European People's Party, whom I am honoured to represent in this rostrum. Although the object of this proposed law of the Socialist Party and Podemos is exclusively on the limitation of the powers of the General Council of the Judicial Power in office, all the totalities have derived in changing the form of the election of the vowels. Our amendment to the whole proposes the direct election of judges, as well as other aspects related to the General Council of the Judiciary, for example, incompatibilities are foreseen for those who have had political ties. As stated in our explanatory statement, it is essential to reflect in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, with a claim of permanence and continuity, the constitutive will for judges and magistrates to participate in the process of electing the members of the judiciary directly, that is, for judges to be elected directly by the judges. Thus, it is articulated in our law that we offer as an alternative text, in which we also implement a series of measures that strengthen the guarantee of independence and impartiality of those proposed as vowels, as well as the transparency itself of the election process. In this way, we agree 100% with the European Commission for Democracy for Law, better known as the Venice Commission, which has been putting forward repeated occasions that in those countries where there are national judicature councils these must be made up of a majority of members from the judicial career and that these members must also be elected by their peers. This is our proposal, ladies and gentlemen; in summary, a sensible, thoughtful proposal which seeks to restore normality to the separation of powers, which is a constitutional mandate that should never have ceased to have that normality and that peace - and so to speak clearly - and must never be subjected to political pressure, as we are seeing today. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is useful for Spain and for the Spanish. Justice is an essential pillar of our rule of law and requires agreements and accountability. Mr Ortega Smith, of the VOX Group, I will not go into your criticisms to play the game of the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez, but it must be said that if anyone has spilled the suitcase of his makeup in today's Congress session he has been VOX propelled to the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Who is the cowardly right now, Mr. Ortega? Who's the cowardly right? It's just that you can't be doing all day politics to criticize and destroy, you have to do constructive politics and with the truth ahead, ladies and gentlemen. And what you can't have is a government that's always dealing with judges in a systematic way, questioning their work over and over again. Just yesterday Minister Garzón in a television interview accused Judge García-Castellón of ideological bias, which is a very serious accusation, is an accusation of prevarication and clearly attacks the independence of the judge. These are absolutely unacceptable statements that cannot be admitted from a government minister. You can't be more irresponsible. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is pulsing the judiciary and the European Union, but that pulse is going to lose it because the rule of law always wins, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party is still in time to rectify and should do so. Otherwise, it's impossible to reach any kind of agreement. What agreement do you want to reach with partners like Podemos, ladies and gentlemen? It will not be possible to reach any agreement that involves Podemos and his extravagant ideas, which only strain the situation. In just a year of government, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President Iglesias, Vice-President of the Government of Spain, has attacked the judges directly and has tried to undermine their independence with ultra-sufflamas; he has called the togaed reactionary judges and has tampered with their resolutions over and over again; he has launched his army of networks to persecute the judge who investigates them, something as unheard of as detestable; he has put the credibility of the sentences in check; he has questioned the legitimacy of the Spanish courts themselves, of justice as the power of the State. How do you want to have the People's Group in the same place where you are? It is impossible, we cannot be with a Vice-President of the Government who makes these criticisms of the judiciary, of the independence of the judges, and who does not apologize for it. Respect for justice and what it means has been lost over and over again. The last feat of the vice president is to call exile a fugitive from justice; that's nothing, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing. Therefore, any agreement in this regard is impossible and we ask the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos to rectify, although I am afraid they will not. And, to all this, ladies and gentlemen, where is the President of the Government of Spain in the face of this challenge to the judiciary, to his partner in the challenge to the judiciary? Once again, President Sanchez is hiding without a face. Now we see how the PSOE has made out with its government partners to stay in power, but at a very high price; renouncing its own principles as a state party that has ruled our country for many years and that, with its successes and errors, it had never rigged a strategy like this to attack and dynamize the judiciary. This proposal for a law is a clear example of this, as other speakers have said here. They have empowered the month of January and the urgent procedure to arm this challenge against justice. And they have done so with a legislative vehicle that seeks to exclude the reports of the Council of State and to exclude, precisely, the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. Our obligation was to give serious warning to the Government of this parliamentary troupe and, for this, we submitted to the Bureau of the House, through our spokesman, a review letter for the judiciary to be heard in this legislative process. That is the constructive opposition, we warn the Government but the Government does not listen, ladies and gentlemen. The General Council of the Judiciary made this request to Congress to be heard and the Government did not listen to it either. This proposal has been qualified without even answering our review paper. These are the ways of a bottomless Government and also of a formless Government. Even the European Union has seriously warned the Government of this way of legislating and has sent them a clear message: that any reform of the General Council of the Judiciary must be done in dialogue with the opposition and in consultation with the Council of Europe; that they will be very careful to do so and that the consequences, indeed, could be harmful to our country. The image in Europe with this reform of the Polish government is regrettable and, indeed, can put many things at risk. This is the government that we have, ladies and gentlemen, which is not able to unite because its essence is confrontation; the sanchismo, heir to President Zapatero who asked for tension in that interview - do you remember?-; the sanchismo which considers urgent a confrontation with the judiciary, but which does not seem urgent the dramatic situation that our country is experiencing. This is an urgent law for the coalition government, but it is not a law that provides legal support to fight and defeat the virus; it is not. This one is and that one isn't. What is regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, is that our party has long asked the Government for a law to combat the virus, but the Government has other priorities. Minister Illa's appearance has also not been urgent for the government and he is going with another lie behind his back: he promised to appear in Congress and has not done so. I'm telling you about a minister of health who leaves when the hospitals are collapsed and the virus is dramatically hitting the Spaniards. Is this government aware of the reality of our country? Is this government aware of its own priorities? Is this government aware of what the general interest means for Spain by presenting this law urgently and without making a big urgent plan to save thousands of lives and fight the virus? Is this government aware of what our country is playing at? [[Applauds]] Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen? Do you realize the message you're sending to society, when the highest health officer leaves the boat and while health professionals take extra turns in hospitals and leave their skin to save millions of lives? Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, the image and message you are offering our society? We have to stay ahead, ladies and gentlemen, we have to make decisions, we have to face it. This is no longer a gesture of loyalty to the public service and the Spanish people, and what is regrettable is that you do not fulfil the responsibility that the people command you and only think about the elections. Think more about the Spanish and less about the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not an urgent one; the urgent thing is a change of attitude in the government. No one is perfect and sometimes we make mistakes and sometimes we make mistakes. When you are in the government, mistakes are made, but this error, ladies and gentlemen, is in the book. This law is book, it's a mistake, and I think much of the Socialist Party knows it. To submit to this tension to the Judicial Power is not a receipt. One cannot process a law of these characteristics by using it as a threat, as a worse, better. You can't come to Congress like this, in this way run over, ladies and gentlemen, with what this means. You cannot bring a law as it is without the General Council of the Judiciary, the judiciary, to say what it has to say. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot permanently question the decisions of a constitutional body even if it is in office, such as the General Council of the Judiciary, especially when the current Minister of Justice himself was more than two years on an extended council taking decisions. What do you say to that, ladies and gentlemen? What answer do you have to that? If it is illegitimate now, as many of you say, it would also be when the minister, Mr Campo, was vocal and making decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth cannot be ignored when my party is being blocked, Mr Baldoví, as I am sure you will do again now, because the People's Party does not have a majority in this matter. The problem is that they are unable to reach agreements. They have been unable to hear in the law of euthanasia, in the law of education, in laws that are state bodies. They are no longer able to listen, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the panorama we have. We want to support without fissure the more than 5000 judges who daily do a self-sacrificing work for their country, of public service, independently, complying with the Constitution. And it is regrettable to see communications such as that given by the General Council of the Judiciary, which warns that the urgent and unheard-of handling of any reform that limits its functions does not respect the requirements of the principle of separation of powers. I believe that this statement is the most serious one that has occurred for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, rectify and you will have the People's Party on your side, but rectify and withdraw this law because, of course, it does not make any sense and because it is an absolute fear and a historical error of the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u170	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u171	Good afternoon. We have already expressed our position in more detail in December, in the consideration of the proposal for a law and today, month and a half after, neither changed the circumstances nor changed our position. I reiterate that this limitation of powers in a council in office is logical and common sense and is also consistent with what happens in other branches of the State. I also said it was a patch, but necessary today. We therefore reject all the amendments in their entirety, although some of them have interesting aspects, but reading them does not seem to seek a great deal of consensus with all the parliamentary groups. I repeat that what is really necessary is to change the system of choice of members so that there is a maximum time limit for renewal, a deadline with a binding choice. I think we all agree on that. Our proposal has three successive phases: first, the direct election by the Courts for three fifths, and the current one, with a period of one month. Second, election of the 12 judges by members of the judicial career with parliamentary endorsement and, third, by lot among those proposed by the parliamentarians themselves. This is to be discussed and I think it combines the main currents that exist. Anyway, I'm nothing optimistic about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u172	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since there is no person from the government this afternoon to listen to this, I hope that they are working on the vaccination plan, which is what is really worrying the Spanish people as a whole right now. I believe that all efforts should now be devoted to that issue. The concern is absolute, so far it has been a real misconception what is happening, and we all know that the most immediate future of Spain is in the hands of the possible vaccination, of how it is done, of how it is carried out and, of course, of the fact that there are sufficient vaccines for the whole population. Therefore, it is not issues like this that we are discussing today that concern the Spaniards but the previous one. In the end, what has been intended here by Podemos and the Socialist Party at one point has been, first, to appoint the members of the General Council of the Judiciary who are to appoint the Congress of Deputies and then, once appointed, to make them the appointments entrusted to them by the General Council of the Judiciary itself, as has been said by other spokespersons, with the idea of having absolute control over justice. And that is to be done with 155 votes; they have an absolute majority and they close half of the Chamber, that is the problem. This, with 155 votes, without entrusting himself to anyone. Is it not more normal than on a subject like this to seek agreement and consensus? Is it not more normal for the General Council of the Judiciary to be chosen in another way that at least guarantees the independence of the persons who are members of that Council and does not give the impression that they are at the service of the groups who have appointed them? Is it not more normal that people, politicians or members of the government do not attack the active judges in order to prevent them from doing their job and, moreover, they are not threatened first directly and then saying: we are going to control the judiciary, so beware of what you do? The judicial career is being attacked in a brazen manner. It's done every day. This transfers the image that there is no separation of powers here. We have to have full confidence in justice, even if sometimes we like it more and sometimes less what it does. I therefore believe that this proposal for a law should be withdrawn, that the previous one should be withdrawn and, among all, seeking an agreement for the General Council of the Judiciary to truly be an independent council. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u174	Thank you, Mr. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, lastly, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u175	Thank you, President. This reform of organic law seems good to us, but we think it is very unambitious. In fact, it seems to us that punishing or admonishing the General Council of the Judiciary when it does not want to comply with the law does not solve the main elements that explain why the configuration is so conservative or the problems that exist in the election of judges. It does not solve the authoritarian judicial culture that there is historically in the high Spanish judiciary, which connects with Francoism, nor does it solve the amiguism and partyism when it comes to appointing the judges of the high judiciary. Today Carod-Rovira wrote an article in which he spoke about the ideology of the judiciary itself, apart from who governs. And the truth is that more than making very deep reflections, we will explain it simply with the examples of the last ten days. The Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia disqualified the foreign adviser of the Generalitat for his performance on 1 October. The High Court of Justice of Catalonia itself suspends the decree suspending the elections of 14 February without any sanitary criteria, only for making effective the government of the togas, as we say. The Constitutional Court this same week does not allow an appeal to investigate crimes against humanity during Francoism, and claims that the Amnesty Act of 1977 - the one accused by several international actors of covering up the investigation of torture and crimes against humanity - already resolves this type of crime. The National Audience today announces that Pablo Hasel will go to prison for singing and for a 'crime' of opinion and freedom of expression. And let us hope that the week will not end with the revocation of the Supreme Court of the third degree of independence prisoners. The issue is much deeper than changing how judges of the General Council of the Judiciary are chosen. To finish two reflections; if the judges want to rule, let them stand for election, but the government of the togas is totally undemocratic. The second reflection is on the exile debate; Francoism has a long, very long shadow, and reform is impossible. The alternative they offer us is impossible. The only way is to build a democratic judiciary, ours from an independentist perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor Mr. Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u177	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the consideration of four amendments to the entire alternative text to the proposed law establishing the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary when it is in office-by completing the current regulation-, which limits its powers exclusively when it is in that situation to the election of a new president. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said, at the time of taking into consideration the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group and the United Group, that this proposal could not be removed from the controversy that has arisen since 1985, when the procedure for the appointment of members of the judiciary was reformed by turning them into members of the full designation of the Courts; a dispute that has continued to this day through internal confrontations within the General Council of the Judiciary, which are due to the fact that the judicial associations and their elected representatives represent and associate themselves with the same ideological tendencies and currents in society, and to the choice of judicial positions of free designation, which is the responsibility of the General Council of the Judiciary, together with the criteria of merit and capacity set out in Regulation 1/2010 and the jurisprudence of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, we believe that, with a necessary margin of decision, the suitability or adequacy of the candidates to the square to which they aspire. Because it cannot be ignored that a magnificent judge can be a terrible manager of a court and that, therefore, there can be factors to consider that are not only merit or capacity and that should be taken into account such as, for example, bringing judges to the courts in different specialties. On the other hand, and beyond the internal confrontations that he reported, the controversy to which we referred - which since 1985 follows the election of the members of the judiciary - also has systemic manifestation in the frequent blockades that have occurred in this Congress and in the Senate - and it must be said clearly - when the People's Party is in the opposition, as it happens today, always justified with the screen that the election of the members of the judiciary violates the separation of powers, however, as has already been shown in this session, never repaired when it has had the opportunity to have sufficient parliamentary majority. A situation of blockade also justified at present, as stated in the consideration, in the indirect illegitimacy of the coalition government through the illegitimacy of the aims that are said to be pursued by one of its partners, which is that of the destruction of the General Council itself to impose on the judges a monocolor government, thus violating its own independence, which is hardly credible since the agents of this regime change will need, as a fifth column, the judges and magistrates of the General Council and the Third Chamber of the Supreme, which is quite unlikely to us. The ultimate reason for the blockade is more spurious, as it is not recognizing the democratic legitimacy of the governmental partner of the PSOE, claiming to this one the political impossible of its rupture. At the same time as he calls for this, there is no relief in agreeing with political forces such as VOX, who accused the Constitutional Court, during the consideration of this bill, of complicity, in his opinion, with the institutional coup that is being perpetrated by the Government of the State, by this House and by its governing bodies, which certainly does not cease to be a capital folly, and this is seriously disturbing, apart from public opinion, in its perception of the institutions and of the reality of things. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already pointed out on many occasions that political power is involved in the various judicial models of our environment, either in judicial appointments or in the bodies that appoint them and govern the judiciary. That is why we do not share those amendments of the whole which propose to return to the system of election of members of judicial origin exclusively by judges and magistrates, that is, the 1980 model. We believe that maintaining parliamentary appointment does not undermine the best guarantee of their independence, nor is that a constitutional requirement, as the Constitutional Court itself has stated. In addition, the General Council is a body of constitutional dimension with no doubt significance, and it is therefore not to be considered inconsistent from the counterweights of any constitutional model and of the social and democratic rule of law to compensate for the power given to judges, who are the majority in the General Council, with the counterweight involved in parliamentary designation. Our model is also shared with the judicial career through proposals of judicial vowels that raise the House for appointment. Finally, I would like to say that the unjustifiable blockade of the renewal of the General Council cannot be built without first making all possible efforts, and some more, to overcome this serious anomaly. He said that this unjustifiable blockade of express reforms in Jordan cannot be erected, without reflecting on the desirability and opportunity of having the reports and opinions of bodies that fulfil a purpose of preventive legal certainty, because the alteration of the structures of the General Council is not the best way to deal with the problems that have arisen, but it cannot serve as an alibi for those who are dedicated to playing them with the justifiable trappings that have exposed us in the debate of taking into consideration the proposal of law, which has given rise to the amendments of the whole that we are now debating and that we will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u178	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u179	President, ladies and gentlemen of the right, I would like to begin by acknowledging that there are arguments to defend the modification of the voting model of the General Council of the Judiciary. There are also arguments to defend the opposite, in our view many more. But what is indefensible is the current situation: a government with the expired mandate, which has an absolute majority that is that of 2013, which continues to rule as if nothing despite the fact that there have been many elections, against the mandate of the Constitution and the ballot box. Today, as Mr Bal recalled, he has made appointments, illegitimate appointments because he is an illegitimate government, because he has broken with the principle of democratic legitimacy. In their amendments there is no reference to that, they are pure filibusterism. You pose a model change, but as long as that doesn't happen, the current model has to work. They can't block it. They don't say anything about what powers a government has to have in place. The Government in office of the Executive or of this House has limited powers and for a very short period of time. The Congress, if it does not invite a president within two months, has to dissolve and call for new elections. It is not the case in any country in Europe that there is a government in office without limited powers. That's a democratic anomaly. You, in your amendments today, come to talk about other things, to another debate. They're talking about the politicization of justice. And you say that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is like when you come here to talk about anti-corruption; you, who have had a minister, a chief prosecutor and an anti-corruption prosecutor who have been repudiated by this House; you, who have been described as a criminal organization by the courts and the police; you, who have been accused of using state structures, the cloacas, to cover up their corruption; you, who have been convicted of being financed unlawfully and illegally; and now you come to talk about justice being depoliticized, when you have politicized it like no one else? From Gallardón, with the 2013 reform; in fact, already before. Whenever they have had the opportunity, they have made reforms that have intensified such politicization. That's why Rajoy's famous message: Be strong, we do what we can! Because it really is a matter of survival for you. What happens now is not new; it has happened on other occasions. It happened in the Republic, it happened also with Zapatero. They then had the government of the judges kidnapped for two years because they did not want certain reforms to come forward, for example, l'statut d'autonomia and, therefore, the conflict with Catalonia. The fundamental problem is that you do not accept democratic alternation and believe that power is yours and, when you lose the elections, you will become entangled in the judiciary. That's the underlying reason for this blockade and not another one. Be honest, acknowledge that there is that behind your amendments. There is no Podemos, Pablo Iglesias and not even Bildu; what there is is the Kitchen case or the gifted master case. Or is it believed that if Mrs. Cifuentes had been beaten, like Mr. Married, last week she had been sitting on the bench of the defendants? Or what's the same thing, wouldn't Mr. Married be sitting on the bench of the defendants if he wasn't beaten? We're talking about that. This is a right-wing conflict with democracy, with this Congress, not with Unidad Podemos, not even with the government. Are you imagining that the government, the executive branch, did the same thing? Can you imagine that when the term ends, in 2023, no elections are called and the government is kidnapped until you break up with VOX? Well, that's what you're doing. And they have the nerve, like Mr Bal, to talk about assaulting democracy, or like Mr Smith, who is not here now, must be erasing feminist murals in Madrid. When yesterday I read the amendments, the twenty-five pages, I imagined Mr Smith writing them disguised as a bison helmet, drawing inspiration from Trump and talking about the assault on democracy. I cannot address Mr Smith because he is not - he has made his speech and has left - but today I have found him more moderate than the spokesman for Citizens. Today, the cowardly right has looked more like that of VOX than that of Citizens. You've screamed even less than Mr. Bal. Well, when I read the amendments, I thought about that, that you have a considerable mess. I'll make it clear to you. Franco was an assault on democracy, no matter how much Mr Smith said that Franco was voting. What has emerged from the ballot box is what is happening in democracy. The basis of democracy is popular sovereignty and the principle of institutional renewal is what legitimizes it. When you interrupt the renewal of governments, like the government of the judiciary, you are breaking with the democratic principle. We already know what the extreme right does when it achieves power, we have seen it in other European countries - in Poland, Hungary and the United States - and that is why-final, president - there are two options: one, assuming that the government of judges will not be renewed until the right-wing wins a general election and has a majority in this Congress, and the other, assuming our obligation as Congress, as democrats, and adapting the law to the constitutional mandate. That is what we are going to do and, therefore, once these amendments have been tabled in their entirety, I again call for your support for the rest of the democratic forces in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you what this debate is about, because it seems that some have been confused. It is a proposal for a law to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary, to -listen, listen!- the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary in office. We talked about this, in office - they have heard well - because another does not know, but it has been two years with the expired mandate. And they come here, gentlemen of the right, as if they had not broken a plate, as if this were not with you, and what really happens is that the PP blocks and, as bad as it weighs, politicizes justice. Yes, yes, he makes gestures, but they politicize, which means using an extremely irregular situation for political purposes. You - I repeat, you - deliberately politicize and with the help of a judicial sector - say - escorted to the right to a constitutional body. I have to admit that they have curled up with their amendments today. By the way, you talk a lot about legislative technique, bill and so on. Legislative technique is yours, which have tabled two amendments to the article that are of suppression, in an unprecedented parliamentary fraud in this House. Also - I don't know if Mr Cuevillas is here - he talks about legislative technique. It will be that of the Government of Catalonia, which intends to suspend the elections by decree of vice-presidency. That would also be a very curious legislative technique. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must not avoid the main debate. What is clearly unheard of and inconceivable to the other two powers of the State, the political and judicial rights believe it to be normalized. With his stubborn defense of the indefensible they contribute to the destabilization of our constitutional architecture. Ladies and gentlemen, your positions in this House are well known not only in terms of political connivance with irregular situations that may be conducive to them, as is the case, but also as some debates in this House. You are specialists in tightening the handbrake of history. They act as a retardant of progress, they have done so in numerous laws, the last, the Law of Euthanasia. By the way, on this occasion it is true that Citizens voted in favour. That is why it is difficult for me, Mr de Citizens, to see you so kind, so well and so at ease with the ultra-right in matters in which I am convinced that you play more of a role of partisan government harassment than of concrete analysis of what is proposed here. By the way, you have done a class of law; I see you ready to follow in the footsteps of your former leader and be, if you wish, PP's attorney shortly. [[Applauds]] Liberals, it is unheard of that you do not even mention attempts to interfere with the legislative sovereignty of this Parliament. Conservatives, it is unheard of that they are patch patriots in the eye according to which article of the Constitution is concerned. Liberals and Conservatives, I am convinced that when you look back in the future, the image you will see of your blockade and of supporting the most radical theses of this Parliament will not make you proud. Gentlemen of the right not besieged, if the incumbent executive could appoint high offices without limit, you would put the cry in heaven. If the Legislature in office could legislate without limit, you would put the cry in heaven. What is the reason, then, for not supporting a reform aimed at regulating these same conditions and limits that the Executive and the Legislature have in the Third Power, the Judiciary? I tell you, your only interest is to erode the government and, again, politicize justice. I repeat: to erode the government. I am no longer criticizing, that this is legitimate and necessary in democracy, but you are making a patrimonialist use of the institutions, an erosion and harassment that we see also, unfortunately - today we have seen with Mr Rojas' intervention - in the management of the pandemic. I said that in my first speech in this Chamber and I think it will be good to repeat it today. One does not choose when a pandemic arrives, nor does one choose when a tsunami or earthquake occurs, but one does choose what to do, what words it uses, what comparisons it uses, what agreements it is willing to reach, what fakes it gives for good or helps to extend, what tweet, what it cuts, what it benefits, and with whom it associates; in short, what shovel it uses to hide its inability. By the way, they were talking about the government, perhaps it would have to snow in this Chamber to see the head of the opposition here. [[Applauds]] But, well, ladies and gentlemen, the fragility of democracies, even the most consolidated, is a fact. Three weeks ago we saw him live in the temple of democracy in the United States, when the mob, sheltered and dazzled by the Presidency, stormed the Capitol. The line is therefore very thin. It begins by calling an illegitimate, murderous government, as one who does not give importance to words. We start by denying scientific evidence; we start by harassing deputies in their seats; we start by doubting the legitimacy of the elections or their suspension, which is all there is in life; we start by doubting our courts, and then we lose control over what can happen. Because, ladies and gentlemen, words matter and, facts, even more. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is crucial on what is the concept of institutional architecture: if we think it is good that the loss of power, the loss of the parliamentary majority of the government enables us to block renewals, disregarding the constitutional mandate, or it is accepted that the transitions of power in a rule of law, democratic and social, like ours, are always accompanied by firm commitments of institutional normality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very unliberal to justify a blockade such as that suffered by the General Council of the Judiciary, and it not only harms the blocker, but also those who profile themselves in the face of this situation. Populism has many faces, and this is one of them. I'm finishing up. Much has been said in this House about whether this debate should be held here. So much! It is a debate that must not only be held, but that we are obliged to have. The legislator, you and we, have an obligation to legislate with the common good as our guide. It is not the case in this country and at the moment to steal Parliament from these debates. The sovereignty of this Parliament lies in the use of our constitutional, legal and regulatory powers. For all that, Madam President, my group will vote against all the amendments. I quote you in the paper for a constructive debate on the reform of the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Laws: Royal Decree-Law 38/2020 of 29 December, adopting measures to adapt to the situation of third State of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland following the end of the transitional period provided for in the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community of 31 January 2020. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 105 plus 221 telematics votes, 326; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u184	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; 64 plus 185 telematics votes, 249; 40 plus 54 telematics votes, 94; abstentions, 1 plus 4 telematics votes, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u185	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 36/2020 OF 30 DECEMBER, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE MODERNIZATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOVERY, TRANSFORMATION AND RESILENCE PLAN. [[File number130/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u186	Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 64 plus 106 telematics votes, 170; against, 40 plus 86 telematics votes, 126; abstentions, 1 plus 51 telematics votes, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u187	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u188	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 35/2020, OF 22 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE TOURIST SECTOR, HOSTELLERY AND TRADE AND IN TRIBUTARY MATTERS. [[File number 130/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u189	Royal Decree-Law 35/2020 of 22 December on urgent measures to support the tourism sector, hospitality and trade and tax matters. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 105 plus 183 telematics votes, 288; against, 5 telematics votes; abstentions, 54 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u190	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 105 plus 240 telematics votes, 345; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u191	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 37/2020, OF 22 DECEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES TO COMBAT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS IN THE FIELD OF LIVING AND TRANSPORT. [[File number 130/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u192	Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 of 22 December on urgent measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability in the field of housing and transport. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 65 plus 133 telematics votes, 198; against, 40 plus 106 telematics votes, 146; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u193	The royal decree-law is validated. We have asked for this royal decree-law to be dealt with through the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 105 plus 239 telematics votes, 344; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u194	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 39/2020 OF 29 DECEMBER, OF FINANCIAL MEASURES OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SUPPORT AND OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SENTENCES. [[File number 130/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u195	Royal Decree-Law 39/2020 of 29 December on financial measures for social and economic support and enforcement of sentences. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 105 plus 209 telematics votes, 314; against, 17 telematics votes; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u196	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 105 plus 235 telematics votes, 340; against, 5 telematics votes; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u197	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u198	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary in office. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal of Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judicial Power, for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judicial Power in office, submitted by the Parliamentary Group VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 242 telematics votes, 347; 1 plus 67 telematics votes, 68; 104 plus 174 telematics votes, 278; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u199	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 1 plus 8 telematics votes, 9; against, 103 plus 220 telematics votes, 323; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u200	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for a little silence, please. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 40 plus 63 telematics votes, 103; against, 65 plus 179 telematics votes, 244; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u201	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group to the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 243 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 40 plus 65 telematics votes, 105; against, 65 plus 177 telematics votes, 242; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-01-28-CD210128.u202	The amendment to the whole alternative text was rejected. Good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was six and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
