ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u1	The meeting was called to order. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with the full debate of the proposal of the Murcia Regional Assembly for the reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Murcia Region. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, whom I welcome to this House, as well as the entire Murcian delegation that accompanies us. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Diego Conesa Alcaraz has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin with the recognition and express thanks to all the people, including many socialist comrades, who for many years have done their best to ensure that this fundamental norm for the Murcia Region is being debated here today, at the seat of national sovereignty. In the Socialist Party of the Murcia Region we have always been committed to updating the status of autonomy; many years and a great deal of commitment to reach a total consensus at the end of the last parliamentary term with the People's Party, Citizens and Podemos, a unanimous consensus voted in the Regional Assembly on April 1, 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a comprehensive reform of the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia thirty-nine years later. It is a necessary reform due to the enormous social and economic transformation, but above all competitive from 1982 to the present. Above all, it is a necessary reform for the economic, social, political and also environmental challenges that we must face as a community, as a region of Europe that assumes its values. From our party we defend and promote the development of this new status of autonomy because it is a status of progress for the Region of Murcia, a status for the region for the next thirty years. It is an ambitious status in new rights and freedoms of citizenship: the right to effective equality between men and women; the right of persons with disabilities or in a situation of dependency; the right to comprehensive protection against gender-based violence; the right to sexual orientation; the right to water as a right of citizenship but also as a right and guarantee of adequate water security at a fair price to meet present and future needs; water to drink and live on criteria of sustainability and solidarity in accordance with the Constitution and the laws; rights in relation to the environment, where the public authorities of the Region of Murcia must ensure the protection and protection of the environment, landscape and terrestrial and maritime biodiversity, in particular of the Mar Menor; the right to access to renewable energy sources, new technologies and culture; the right to democratic memory, in which the regional public authorities must ensure that historical memory becomes a permanent symbol of identity, multiculturality, tolerance, dignity with democratic values, rejection of totalitarianism and recognition of all those who have suffered persecution; the rights and guarantees for all people who sustain the environment on a daily basis, must have in the Region of Murie, as well as citizens's basic income, must have, as well as well as well as citizens's. Freedoms, rights, duties, agreements and basic consensus in 2019 from an entire region that we will defend and push for and for which we call for the support of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a statute for the next thirty years, where our fundamental autonomous law shields us from populist blindness and unsustainable economic, fiscal or environmental drifts; a European road map aligned with the rest of Spain; a bet on the forty-five municipalities of the region and their legitimate aspirations, including those specific to Cartagena. To carry out this roadmap and bet we urgently need more fiscal co-responsibility from all autonomous communities to improve our autonomous funding as soon as possible. Like the Valencian Community, we have been devastated since 2002 by the disastrous management, at that time, of transfers of education and, above all, of health care, and we cannot wait any longer. Today we are defending before our national Parliament something more than a reform of the status of autonomy; this comprehensive reform reflects the essence of what is really the Region of Murcia, as well as the just aspirations of all the people who live in it. This afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we demand before all the Spanish and Spanish that the Region of Murcia is not the caricature that transcends our borders, despite the shameful political, social and environmental spectacles that we have suffered in recent years and months. We are a society made up of good people, honest, tolerant and supportive, who turn to the people who need it most and who reject violence without hesitation. We are a land of co-existence proud of its diversity. Our story is the story of a sum of cultures, a story that is still being written today. We are a land, forever, with many needs, but with enormous potential and qualities to be a land of progress, of men and women who want to continue living in their region and who deserve real equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u3	Mr. Conesa, you have to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u4	All these principles are reflected in the reform of our statute and we therefore call for their support. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Conesa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also to present the initiative, you have the word don Joaquín Segado Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the seat of national sovereignty with a reform of the status of autonomy in which no one loses and we all win, a reform that reflects the reality of the land on which we live today. It is a courageous, ambitious status in which any citizen of our region can be seen and felt represented. It is a statute that recognizes our values and traditions, what we really are; that protects our Minor Sea; that protects the rights of families; respect for our traditions and our culture, or the legislative capital of Cartagena. It is a statute that shields as a right the water we need, guaranteeing and establishing as fundamental the Tajo-Segura transfer, which has been drinking for forty-two years the two and a half million Spaniards we live in the Levante and feeding more than 300,000 people every year in the agri-food sector and which, today, still, someone intends to close. Every drop of water in our land becomes employment, every drop of water becomes prosperity, every drop of water becomes our land a new opportunity for the future of hundreds of thousands of people. It is a reform that demands the funding that we have for justice, which we have failed to provide and which needs to be corrected. It is not fair for some regions to receive more funds than others to provide the same services. It is necessary to solve this problem immediately, which punishes year after year the million and a half of Spaniards we live in the Region of Murcia. This under-financing has been acknowledged by the Murcia Region and the necessary compensation mechanisms are envisaged to ensure that this funding is fairer. This new statute supports the tax reduction policy that we have been pursuing for years in the Murcia Region and expressly prohibits budget laws from creating or modifying taxes. The reform reinforces the commitment of the Region of Murcia to the unity of Spain, to our rule of law and to constitutional principles, guarantees freedom in education - one of our flags -, strengthens the freeness of compulsory education and establishes the freeness of textbooks in that period. The representatives of popular sovereignty in the Region of Murcia reached this great agreement by disposing of any political or ideological differences that separated them and putting before the partisan interest the general interest, the well-being of one and a half million citizens. This new status of autonomy is the result of a sincere will of agreement, a sincere will of pact, unanimous agreement of all the political groups that at the time formed the Regional Assembly; an exemplary consensus that we hope will not be tarnished during its processing in this House by distorting the letter and the spirit of this statutory reform; let no less be used for this purpose, to distort that spirit, the votes of those parties that do not believe in Spain, which intend to break national unity and which are so far away from the interests of the Murcia Region. Out of respect for the million and a half citizens of the region and their legitimate political representatives, we ask all parties that this admirable consensus in the region should not be broken, that there should be no votes added that have nothing to do with our land to break it, that there should be no votes added to those who do not believe in Spain and that they do not care what happens in our region, that there should be no votes added here to change the votes that are not held there. If they do, they will show that they still do not understand the message that society sends them every day, they will show that they continue to look for their only interest when citizens ask us for heights of sight and ask us for generosity. That demonstration would only be the prelude to a new baton in front of its voters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Segado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, in order to present the initiative as well, he has the word "Maria Marín Martínez".
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we appear in this House to request, on behalf of the people of the Murcia Region, the processing of this project that reformes the status of my region, of the Murcia Region, and adapts it to the common sense of our society and undoubtedly to the challenges presented to us by the twenty-first century. This draft statute is much more social, more feminist, more ecological and much more respectful of ecology and the environment, also with sexual diversity and with the rights of LGBTI people, but it is that after a decade of social struggles it could not be otherwise. Therefore, this afternoon I want my first thanks no doubt to the people of the Region of Murcia. A decade ago we flooded the squares of indignation, but also of hope, in 2014 we filled Madrid with dignity and every 8 March we are hundreds of thousands of feminist women that we push in the streets without doubt what has already been this fourth wave of housing. We were also, ladies and gentlemen, crowds in Cartagena raising our voice in front of the Ecocidio del Mar Menor and in Murcia have been the more than thirty years of struggle of the tens, of the thousands of neighbors and neighbors of my region, who have managed to bury the tracks of the train and have prevented in this way the city of Murcia from leaving in two. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the peoples who write history. We Members only sign and ratify, but it is the people who write history. It is also true, and I have to say this, that this statute still has room for improvement. As a cartegenera that I am, of course it is not the statute that I would like, as it still does not recognize the historical and cultural singularity of a millennial city like Cartagena. We cartageners and cartageners don't ask for more, but I assure you we're not going to settle for less either. The Statute of the Murcia Region should also include in golden letters the name of our natural parks, thus shielding the rights of our environment, providing their protection and of course including the Sea Minor among them. The Mar Menor agonizes, ill-treated by years of agro-industry dumping, the pressure of the brick and a government of the Murcia Region that has been totally complicit. It will cost a great deal to reverse this situation, ladies and gentlemen, but it is not too late to start doing things right and we must start today with this statute. If the Mar Menor is a unique jewel, we ask from this rostrum to have the highest environmental protection, which is recognition as a regional park, greater legal recognition of its natural values. Although, as I say, this statute has room for improvement, I thank from this rostrum all the deputies and regional deputies of the IX Legislature for their efforts, also the deputies and deputies who, like José Antonio Pujante in previous Legislatures, have already begun the path of this statutory reform. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same today about some and some of the current Members of our Legislature and of course the Government of the Murcia Region. My people, the Region of Murcia, is an honest people, is a working people, is a Dedinamite people, but it suffers today from the most corrupt government of this country, a government that has led our region to be news unfortunately day and day too, whether for the theft of vaccines, for the censorship in the classrooms, for the violation of women's rights, for political transfuguism or for all the nonsense of the far right. If the Paris Commune resisted forty days, the Canton of Cartagena and Antonete Gálvez resisted one hundred and eighty, ladies, and a century and a half later the flag of dignity continues to fly in the Fort of Galles and in the Cross of the Miravete. That's how Master Torrano sang it and that's how I'm going to conclude my words today in this rostrum: All things die / but feeling doesn't, / and after so many years / now Region is made. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Marin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to welcome and welcome the representatives of Murcia who are accompanying us today and who have defended from this very rostrum the proposal for a comprehensive reform of the autonomous status of their community, of the Region of Murcia. I would like to express to you very sincerely the honour I feel for being the representative of my parliamentary group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, in this House to defend our vote, in the affirmative, of course, on your proposal. I would like to especially greet the Senator of Citizens, spokesman for my group in the Upper House, Miguel Sánchez, who can also boast of being one of the parents of this new statute of autonomy, as deputy and spokesman of Citizens on April 1, 2019 at the Regional Assembly of Murcia, on the day of its approval there. Know that for me, for an Alicante from the Vega Baja del Segura, from Orihuela, just twenty kilometers of Murcian land, it is a pleasure to talk about Murcia because of the family and affective ties that unite me with your region, where I have lived perhaps the most important years of my life, in which I had the opportunity to complete university studies or where I have done things that remain forever in memory and in the heart and that are part of what one is, such as marrying the one who shares my life since then or seeing my three children born. Today I keep many of the best friends you can have there. As you see, he who speaks to you, even being a proud Alicante, is also someone who rhymes batianism for his pores. That is why I recognize that it is a privilege to be here today, at this moment. With this, the sixth proposal for reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia since its initial promulgation in June 1982 comes to Congress, the statutory norm of an autonomous community that tomorrow will turn thirty-nine years old. The comprehensive reform of Murcia's Statute of Autonomy comes to this House for adoption as an organic law following the previous modifications carried out by the same way in 1991, 1994, 1998 or 2013. Finally, just a few months ago, in the same year 2021, another reform of this statute entered into force, the most important of which has so far been for my party, for Citizens. With the reform promulgated by Organic Law 1/2021 of 15 February last year, one of the demands that for my party, for Citizens, were most important when it came to setting up a government in the Region of Murcia, to give it more transparency, more equality, more regeneration, was fulfilled - and I must say that not without difficulties or delays. And it is that, unfortunately, there are not few obstacles today in Spain to fight corruption. So, for example, every time the draft comprehensive anti-corruption law of Citizens has come here, the other formations, of whatever sign, have always had excuses not to approve. That it is difficult to fight corruption in Spain has been demonstrated by almost all parties in this Chamber, such as, for example, when members of the People's Party protest, in a Commission of Inquiry such as the Kitchen case, that everything is an assembly; the same assembly that we see We can when a court condemns Isa Serra; or the same assembly, in short, when we continue to be unable to investigate the Neurona case in this Congress because PSOE and We can join forces to avoid that Commission of Inquiry. We are not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that it is so difficult for everyone to talk about eliminating political outbursts and privileges and that he is only able to do so Citizens by means of autonomous statutes such as the Batian, which contains in his new text that modification of the autonomous norm already reached only a few months ago. Because we, Citizens, do defend ending the privileges for politicians, whatever color they are and have the ideas they have; we defend it and we do it where we have the opportunity. However, it is good news that autonomy - even if it has to be thanks to Citizens and with bipartisanism dragging their feet - progress in terms of regeneration. It does not need to stop me from detailing to what extent there have been all-coloured governments - also in the case of Murcia - that have been conceived by the governments as cortijos. And that is why I cannot fail to recall that this work and this latent desire for democratic regeneration in the anti-transfuguism pact, which has also been signed by the main parties that today sit before this rostrum, has already concluded everything that has to be concluded on the current government of the Murcia Region, a government whose priorities are far from the demands that Citizens have now imposed two years ago and whose fruits are now also in this vote that makes Murcia progress in the area of regeneration. Few clarifications are necessary, especially before those who simply ignore knowingly what they have signed or before those who promote and reward those who influence these behaviors qualified as transfuguism. I insist, I do not say, on the pact that we renewed a few months ago between various forces in this Chamber. But we would do no good to all the Batians by tarnishing a debate such as today's by talking alone and exclusively about the practices of successive governments in the region. The Spanish know that in Citizens we will always defend that there are no privileges, that public institutions are not private courts and that the territories are not property of the political sign that governs them. We are more of changing things than of regret, and in that sense, precisely, it worked Citizens to give the Region of Murcia a new status. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to honour the work of our fellow citizens, who today have the opportunity to speak in this House to make the demands shared by all of them heard, a work which highlights the importance of the agreement when it comes to the general interest, the unanimous agreement which has brought this proposal here and today. The comprehensive reform of the statute of autonomy that is brought to Congress today confirms the Region of Murcia at the highest possible level of self-government, raising to the statutory rank competences proper to a modern community, committed to the unity of Spain and to the constitutional system that supports us. Likewise, it asserts this plural and diverse Spain, collects and guarantees the social rights of the bats within and outside its territory, leaves to its will the own territorial administrative organization of its region, protects basic social rights such as education, health, work, housing, different forms of family, equality between men and women and demands - as in so many areas of Spain - adequate and fair funding. Perhaps all of this explains why some today, with arguments that are treacherous and rancid, will oppose this statutory reform, which advances in rights and freedoms and adapts the highest standard of Murcian autonomy to the feeling of the twenty-first century. Moreover, it claims for the Batians the solidarity of the rest of Spain that has been for years not only the impulse of its own development, but also the source of wealth for a whole country, with a very high quality agricultural sector efficient in the use of its resources and that it demands security and legal stability for the state infrastructures that serve the Batians and all the Spaniards, such as the Tajo-Segura transfer, but that, at the same time, it assumes the need to investigate and work for desalination also as an alternative to the needs of Murcia, because we assume that we are already faced with unavoidable challenges such as climate change and we must reverse errors in environmental management, as has happened in the Sea Minor. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome is the new Statute of the Murcia Region, whose comprehensive reform my party will support. I would particularly like to recall the work done by previous autonomous Members, Senators today, such as Miguel Sánchez, whom I have already mentioned, or our current regional Members Ana Martínez or Juan José Molina, together with so many Councillors who have worked so hard to establish this statute. For them, our appreciation for their dignity and loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u11	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u12	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Assembly of the Murcia Region for their presentation here primarily and also for their work in reaching this point. Our Group More Country-Greens Equo will support, as it could not otherwise be, the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. But let me tell you that today is an important day because, although we usually receive and have recently received very bad news in democratic terms from the Region of Murcia, we have received a lot of friction, a lot of tension and a lot of uncertainty, the reality is that, despite all this, this debate gives us the opportunity to speak in positive terms both of the work that was carried out and of the unanimity that they were able to achieve to look to the future with new rights and to continue the statute that was adopted in 1982. We will certainly hear - and we have heard already - discordant voices, but toxicity cannot erase the fact that this new charter of rights that make up this proposed statute was an example of positive political dialogue and a victory of ideas in the face of sectarianism expressed in other spaces today in the Region of Murcia. A job that will undoubtedly be important to act as a democratic brake against the threats, noise or involution that continues to pose us day by day the extreme right in Murcia and elsewhere. And it is very difficult and inexplicable to be outside the framework of the new statute, unless a pre-constitutional model, precisely on behalf of the Constitution, is to be defended, in which it is claimed that the Region of Murcia plays a subsidiary or secondary role in the face of authoritarian and dangerous centralism that denies the Batians demand, work and build together a better future. Our country, after almost forty years of development of the state of autonomy - contemplated development, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in our Constitution - has been approaching, changing, improving the legal frameworks. The proposal that comes to us today does more than modernise and update a status of autonomy; from our point of view, it aligns or wants to align the Region of Murcia with the future, with modernity, with the protection of individual and collective rights and with the protection of its important natural and cultural space. The present text, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates publicly and collectively the will and confidence that, despite discrepancies and differentiated issues that we could raise as improvements that could be incorporated into the debate in this statute, reality places us in a framework of hope for progress and in no case retreat. Believe me that this, with what is heard and possibly heard in this House, is already a very important step. It is an integral reform of the statute that comes from the assembly, where it was adopted unanimously, with much debate, with much participation - that is, before the extreme right enters the Parliament of Murcia - and whose consideration must now be approved in Congress. A reform that I would like to highlight - although you have already done so - your most important axes. It advances at higher levels of self-government and decentralization, recognizing in the Constitution that it protects it but without renouncing its own capacities as a region, as a citizen of Murcia; without renouncing its capacities and that it recognizes its history and democratic memory, and that it advances in the need for funding. It introduces the updating of rights already contemplated in our laws, but that, when reflected specifically in the statutes, and in this case in the status of autonomy, it grants a high and important value of protection today essential in the face of many negationist discourses. Effective equality between men and women; the fight against macho violence; recognition and respect for gender identity and non-discrimination will be statutoryly protected, and that is an important step. It also introduces environmental rights, landscape protection and biodiversity, which is essential both in a general climate emergency situation and that we are living as well as specifically emergency in the region itself and in the Minor Sea, one of its most relevant environmental values. It broadens the look and demand for social rights based on care, dignity, respect, the fight against poverty or equal opportunities and knows or understands or translates that equality of opportunity is much better protected by a public education bet and a health bet. As Oscar Urralburu said and insisted on in the final debate of the Region of Murcia, Murcia asks us to live up to what citizens ask us to do: let us talk about the future. I conclude by thanking the rapporteurs for their work before and today's and believe that in us they will have the commitment to work in line with the aspirations of the Murcia Region to complete the process with the best possible status, a status that must serve as a development for the Murcia Region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon also to the representatives of the Regional Assembly who are with us this afternoon. We discussed a new reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia which, as has already been said from this rostrum, was a draft statute approved by the assembly unanimously on April 1, 2019. For just over two years and yet, at this time, many things have gone to worse in the Murcia Region. These days, studying this project, I had a feeling that some of those who signed it didn't just believe it too much. Just check some of the articles contained in this project and contrast it with the reality of the Murcia Region and the policies that the Regional Government of López Miras is deploying. For example, article 11 of the Statute provides for the right to equal and non-discriminatory access to publicly funded centres. However, the educational policies of the Government of the Murcia Region have made us the fifth autonomous community with more ghetto institutes, while the boycott of the Lomlou and the measures it collects precisely to reduce school segregation is called. The same article 11 also states that the education system of the Murcia Region will be based on values such as equality between men and women, solidarity, cultural diversity or political pluralism, but the Government of the Murcia Region has been the first and only one in Spain to impose parental censorship in classrooms to shield the prejudices of a minority against democratic values. Article 12 of the draft statute recognizes the right to equal access to the services and benefits of the public health system. But we have all seen - we saw it in a program recently - how this right systematically denies women in the Murcia Region who want or have to interrupt their pregnancy. [[Applauds]] The women of the Murcia Region have the same rights as the rest of the Spanish and cannot depend on any fundamentalist lobby. From here we want to tell you one thing: you are not alone and we will fight for your rights to be guaranteed. On the other hand, article 15 of the Statute recognizes the right to work and defends measures to prevent harassment, exploitation or ill-treatment in the workplace and, however, the Government of the Murcia Region shouted in heaven when Minister Yolanda Díez announced more inspections in the field, inspections that have uncovered genuine cases of labour slavery. I'm on it. Article 21 of this Statute enshrines the right to enjoy natural heritage, landscape and biodiversity in the Murcia Region. Let it be told to the neighbours and neighbours of the Mar Menor, who have been mobilizing against this environmental disaster for years in the face of the inaction of a regional government bought by the brick lobby and the multinationals of agro-industry. Article 25 of this statute states that the public authorities will ensure the knowledge and maintenance of the historical memory, but the regional government has not only for many years failed to comply with the Historical Memory Act, but continues to seek confrontation, as has been seen recently with the controversy surrounding Corvera airport. Article 27 of this statute recognizes the rights of foreigners to full respect, but during this pandemic, unfortunately, President López Miras has publicly pointed out immigrants as guilty in the transmission of the coronavirus. Thus, in the middle of the third wave, the parties supporting the regional government created commissions to investigate the socio-sanitary consequences of the arrival of pateras, but opposed any investigation into the management of residences. That is called institutionalized racism, no more or less. [[Applauds]] One last mention: Article 29 of this statute includes among its guiding principles the promotion of transparency. Well, in the Murcia Region, four months later, we still don't know how many public offices have gone up to get immunized before time. In Murcia vaccines have been stolen from the most vulnerable, ladies and gentlemen, not to mention those wasaps where a deputy of the People's Party, Teodoro García, asks the president of the autonomous community to expedite the operation of a family member. That's also called corruption. At this point, therefore, the question is obvious: was the People's Party believed this draft statute when it signed it? Or what has changed since April 1, 2019? If we look at the picture of our institutions, there is a difference: the irruption of the ultra-right VOX. In Europe they were aware of the risk and put a health cord on the far right. In the Murcia Region, however, the López Miras People's Party has put a red carpet on them and put them into the government. That is why we see how the supposed progressive consensus that brought this new status has been sacrificed every day on the altar of the ultra agenda. And we're gonna see it right now. After I speak, a lordship of VOX will come to tell us that this status is ideological, that having more rights is a thing of progressive dictatorships. And you are right, because every time there has been a progress in rights in this country it has been despite you. You and the People's Party have been voting against divorce, voluntary termination of pregnancy, equal marriage or the right to a dignified death for forty years, and today you will also vote against this statute, because you cannot conceal your allergy to democratic rights. This status is not perfect, we know, more guarantees are needed in the face of institutionalized corruption; the historic singularity of Cartagena must also have greater recognition. This status, therefore, can and should be improved, but, in our view, it is an objective advance in the face of those who want to take us back to the darkest past. That's why, Unite Podemos is going to vote in favour of its processing. Finally, I would like to address the people of the Murcia Region. The rights and advancements of this statute do not give them to anyone, nor do they fall from heaven. They are the result of a cycle of struggles that began in the squares and that has been supported by thousands of feminist women, pensioners, ecologists, activists for the right to housing and tide workers for public services in the Murcia Region. You and you know better than anyone that rights are conquered every day or lost. What we are dealing with here today does not cease to be a role that can be amended, changed or, worse still, ignored. Therefore, from this democratic rostrum I wanted to ask you not to loosen and to continue pushing the change in the Region of Murcia. Because the Region of Murcia is not doomed to be a sort of spiritual reserve for ultras or corrupt. The Murcia Region can be a worthwhile community project. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, we have announced our refusal to proceed with this new text of the Statute of Murcia and I would like first of all to remind you that my party represents almost 30% of the province's electoral body and that this is therefore a consensual reform by an assembly that does not represent the political choice of almost a third of the Batians. [[Applauds]] The only consensus that exists here is the progressive consensus, aimed at turning Spain into a realm of taifas and following the dictates of the globalist agenda and the corrupt regional oligarchies of which the PP is a sad example. An oligarchy that, in order to maintain its privileges and influence, does not hesitate to form a Frankenstein government with all known transfugue and with gentlemen expelled from VOX, Mr Serna, expelled from VOX!, whom they have rewarded nothing less than with the Education Council, being Murcia in the tail car of the PISA report and even though the graced one has the same experience in educational management as as as coach of Real Madrid. [[Laughter]] You put anything in the coin so as to keep meddling in power. At this stage, instead of Murcia Region Day, you should celebrate the day of transfugue pride. [[Laughter and applause]] The Murcian lordships of the PP and the PSOE, what remains of Citizens and the Lord of Podemos, who is no longer there for having been purged by Mr. Iglesias, have drawn up a statute that is nothing more than a superficial washing of an inefficient, expensive and splashed institution of cases of corruption, whose existence they intend to justify by basing in its preamble the regionalist or separatist sandals of other autonomous communities, alluding to a supposed hypostasized identity that would justify the absurd concept of calling self-government what is nothing more than the management of transfers from the State. In this way, they include Murcia in that completely absurd federalizing project of quarting national sovereignty into seventeen feuds which, apparently, are self-sufficient, self-governing and even autonomous, among which historical bonds of unity are replaced by artificial bonds of solidarity between different, which you de facto assume already separated. [[Applauds]] They appeal to certain regional cultural features, as if these differential features could form a different identity from the Spanish one, which is one of the most grotesque traps of separatisms, in which our lost and irresponsible Murtian parliamentarians now also fall. Because the identity of any person or institution cannot be separated from its historical course, it cannot be isolated from its history, in which that identity is being configured. The personal or institutional identity is not given in illo tempore and apart from its own becoming, and that course, that becoming of Murcia and the rest of the Spanish regions is marked by its belonging to Spain. You appeal to a metaphysical identity, established outside of real history and founded self is not known whether in the Rh, as Sabino Arana or Arzallus said, or in culture, as Mr Prat de la Riba and the Catalan supremacists present here said. And when they agree to indicate a defined non-substantial identity in this way, it turns out that they prefer to speak of Murcia as a European region, obviating Spain and leaving aside the patriotism of the vast majority of the Batians, regardless of the party. Until now, Murcia has always been a proud province to be Spanish, the terrible songs of identity mermaids that you now bring to this status have not entered. And this, which is understandable to make it United We can, the enemy of freedom, of the common and allied sense of all the enemies of Spain, do not understand much that the People's Party does, which in its center establishes an equidistance between the rupture of Spain and the constitutional precepts, playing two decks, as has been customary in this party, that the same is opposed in the Vega Baja del Segura to the linguistic immersion in Valencian that supports this Galician immersion in the Galicia of Feijóo. [[Applauds]] In this way, they camouflage the Historical Memory Act as a democratic memory and include it as a statutory rule in article 25 and, at the same time, suffer its harmful consequences, when, protected in this law that you intend to include in the Statute, the Government forbids you to call Juan de la Cerva at the airport, after a ridiculous report prepared by a pseudohistorian in the service of governmental ideology. They say, without any packaging, that the powers of the Regional Assembly emanate from the Murcian people and from the Constitution, in another stumbling block maneuver, since the Constitution clearly states that sovereignty resides in the Spanish people as a whole, and, in any case, those powers of the Regional Assembly are not based on all the people living in Murcia, but, in any case, on the same constitutional order, which in its articles 148 and 149 establishes the order and meaning of the powers transferred. And what about your socialist lordships, you, who with your votes prevented the National Hydrological Plan, who by the mouth of your Ministry of the Environment tell us the bats that the transfers are neither ecofeminist nor resilient incompatible with the 2030 Agenda nor the 2050 Spain project! Well, you, with your friends from the PP, who with 186 deputies forgot about the National Hydrological Plan and who in Castilla-La Mancha call for the end of the transfer while in Murcia you express yourself in their favour, while the Socialist Government warns that we have to settle with our own resources, include article 26, which aims to legally shield the Tajo-Segura transfer, when that is not the competence of an autonomous community because it influences the rest of the communities, in this case in Castilla-La Mancha; an article that is a real toast to the sun. This solemn declaration, in addition to being useless, reveals that you use statutory rules to make demagogy and try to stay in power with deception. When this autumn or any year the ramblas are again overflowing with trades, crops and farms, surely families who see their homes, their savings and their lives disappear will be comforted knowing that this status has been made with a gender perspective and that thanks to the innumerable ideological chiringuites financed by the regional government Murtian students will receive a very modern sex education, although they continue to be pitiful in understanding, reading and calculus. And it is that today's People's Party is complicit in the ideology of this extravagant left. [[Applauds]] Moreover, this statute, adopted with night and lightness, is an example of legislative colossal, aimed at including ideological precepts that should be completely alien to a statutory norm. From a formal point of view, it's as absurd as if they told us that in Murcia...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u17	Mr. Robles, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u18	I'm on my way. ... shall be conducted in accordance with traffic signals. From a material point of view, it is the observation that you all assume the progressive ideology and that only VOX remains to defend the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Robles. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to sound boring and a little less melodramatic than the previous speech, I would like to draw my words back to those of a few months ago, when we debated in the House a timely amendment of the Statute of the Region of Murcia and we said that this amendment should be understood as a preamble to a comprehensive reform text on which the parliamentary procedure begins today; a text that integrates, cohesives and strengthens the regional identity and responds to what the society of the Region of Murcia is demanding at the moment. The statutes of autonomy subordinated to the Constitution are the main guarantee of a government closer to the citizens; they are rules that establish the legal framework of autonomous self-government and its consolidation depends to a large extent on the existence of a framework that allows economic and social cohesion. In an autonomous state, its periodic reform is essential in order to conform to reality. This amendment responds to these principles. It has been unanimously adopted in the Regional Assembly after several years of seeking consensus. It is a statute for all and for all, a legal framework for the citizens of the community that has been developed among all parties and with civil society. It has the majority support of society. That is why, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we believe that if amendments are made to the Courts - there is every legitimacy to do so - they should be adopted with a consensus similar to what was achieved. We do not think it would make any sense for unanimity to be broken, and our will will be to do so. The statute was drawn up thinking of the citizens of the Region of Murcia, but with a deep sense of loyalty to the whole of Spain. In our community, a very large majority feel very mortician, Cartageneros, Lorquinos, but participants in the project of Spain, vibrate with the successes of the region and want the collective success of Spain. The statute does not represent for anyone a confrontational element, not even a differentiation, but a framework for bringing politics closer to the citizens, an instrument to improve the quality of life and to seek solutions closer to real problems. Therefore, after thirty-eight years of experience, competencies, funding model or problems such as water are addressed. The Murcia Region, today, and much more so after the 2008 financial crisis and the pandemic, faces very important social and economic challenges for which a new statutory framework can help to work in a more useful way at the service of our land and citizens. From the Region of Murcia a new statute has been proposed, which is born with the firm will to work loyally with the rest of the autonomous communities, being fully loyal to the Constitution and seeking to contribute to making Spain stronger and with greater opportunities. When standards respond to reality, they become effective instruments and benefit citizens. Incorporating rights developed since the last reform, consolidating competences, is the most efficient and effective way towards a regional administration that improves the life of citizens. This reform aims to be a faithful reflection of the changes that the region has been making in recent years. But, of course, without wanting to be more than anyone else, we do not want to have less instruments than the rest to work for the good of our land. Therefore, the text, with the utmost respect for the competences of the State, reflects the need for urgent measures to address the historical shortfall in funding of basic services received by citizens. Recognizing the under-financing of the Murcia Region, quantifying and arbitrating compensatory measures has become, after the pandemic, an urgent and necessary objective. That the citizens of Murcia are receiving an amount per inhabitant for education, health or social care services, which is half that in other autonomous communities makes no sense. Of course, other criteria must be taken into account: territory, depopulation, dispersion, but without neglecting the essential criterion, and with the health care of the last few months we have seen it more visible: the population, each of the citizens, each of the citizens of the Region of Murcia. The statute, in its article 19, and without wishing to enter into controversy with any other region, contains the right to water, both for individuals and for economic and social development. The Segura river basin has a water structural deficit and Spain has a huge surplus. That is why Indalecio Prieto has already laid the first stone of the transfer and, since then, all the parties in the Murcia Region have demanded water for all, and politicians from all sectors have worked on water solidarity initiatives. Only for strategic parliamentary reasons did the Socialist Party stop a project in progress that could have been definitive and entangled with Minister Borrell's idea of basin interconnection, and now, for dogmatic reasons of the Socialist Party, an essential project, which is the current transfer, is being questioned. The text also incorporates the assumption of new competences, such as those of coasts, to make the region more competitive and easier to manage our municipalities, leaving the door open to assume the long-awaited competences of justice. The region needs a new status of autonomy, which, learning from the experience of four decades, will enable it to have a legal framework that will provide instruments to ensure the economic and social development of the region, provide opportunities for all people, protect our environment, make growth sustainable and improve social and territorial stability. The citizens of Murcia feel part of this great country, Spain, and at the same time know that their best contribution is to make their region bigger. Therefore, our group with the greatest consensus wants to approve this reform of the Statute of the Region of Murcia, which reflects its autonomy, expresses its essence and traditions and hopes for a more prosperous and supportive land with higher levels of freedom for citizens; a statute of autonomy for the twenty-first century and for the twenty-first century. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soto Burillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet the delegation of Members of the Murcia Regional Assembly, which is accompanying us today on such an important day for our land. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to be able to defend the proposal to reform the new Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, a land open to the world, welcoming and always, always, respectful of diversity and which, in these difficult moments, looks at the hope of a new time. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 May, thirty-nine years had passed since this House, with 258 votes in favour, 5 against and 18 abstentions, adopted the first Statute of Autonomy for the Region of Murcia as an organic law. Days later, on 9 June, the rule would be published in the State Official Gazette, and - happy by chance - tomorrow is 9 June, so I take the opportunity to congratulate in advance all the bats and all the bats on the day of our Region. [[Applauds]] It was then approved in 1982, which would undoubtedly be a legal work of progress, a faithful reflection of the identity and sense of a community that saw its traditions, its cultural heritage and its rich heritage protected; a basic norm to improve the standard of living of citizens and at the same time ensure coexistence. Thus began a period full of illusion in the protection of a young democracy. In the words of the Moroccan socialist Hernández Ros, president of the Regional Council, Murcia was on the threshold of a time of progress and progress. Ladies and gentlemen, the region of Murcia is no longer the same as forty years ago. There is a new social, economic and cultural reality, with new demands for a mature, more mature society, to which we must give answers of present and future. It is now, almost four decades later, when the General Courts re-dialogue on a new Statute for the Region of Murcia; a reform that modernises and updates the current statutory framework with full respect for the Constitution and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a text that has been dialogued, participated and agreed. What we are debating today is for the socialists the basic institutional norm of the Region of Murcia for the 21st century; a new statute that strengthens the self-government of our Region, to advance in new competences and to recognize new principles and new rights; a reform that contributes to the development of the State of Autonomy in Spain, a sign of the identity of a plural, diverse and rich country in its complexity no matter how many people try to deny this reality. We are faced not only with an opportunity, but also with the need for a new statute that will bet on democratic regeneration and progress in a region that is lagging behind in social services. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who oppose this reform, this new statute. And they oppose it because it promotes real and effective equality between women and men, because it is feminist, because it strengthens public education and health, because it demands access to water and sanitation as a human right, recognizes the Tajo-Segura transfer as fundamental to our development along with desalination, protects our Mar Menor, protects people with disabilities, women victims of macho violence and people who suffer discrimination because of their sexual orientation or identity. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what have you come to this Parliament for? With your vote against you you want to put an end to all these premises that underpin coexistence, and you also do so using hatred, lies and demagogy. [[Applauds]] We must see what democracy hurts them and how little they care about the Murcia Region and this country! How little they care! And ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have heard some statements that did not come to light in the debate of something as important as a basic norm, but I would like to remind you of what Almeida called the Teo effect, whether it is now to stick to public health or not to respect the women who want to abort. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be allowed by the Socialist Group. But here we have come to something more serious, to what unites us. Do you know when we have achieved the greatest progress for democracy? When there has been dialogue, dialogue and dialogue to reach agreements. Do not be dragged by VOX even if you feel the temptation on your appointment in Columbus. Comply with the agreements, including the Anti-Transfuguism Pact, including the Regional Water Pact, and support this new status in favour of the general interest of the Murcia Region and the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are committed to working in this House, together with the rest of the political groups, so that the Murcia Region has a legal work of progress for the twenty-first century. History supports us with more than one hundred and forty years of journey, more than one hundred in this Parliament, with firm steps and none lost, with a sense of responsibility, a sense of state, a sense of region, and always in favour of coexistence and progress. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much to Mr Conesa, Mr Segado and Mrs Marín for joining us, and to the entire delegation of the Murcia Region. This debate ends here.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u24	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the status of the artist. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Agirrextea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Culture, through its different artistic manifestations, is a basic pillar of society and one of the engines of its development. However, the artistic and cultural world is a heterogeneous sector composed of a multitude of actors who share a number of common features such as job insecurity, intermittentness or fiscal particularities. In this respect, the existing legal regulations, and on more than one occasion the absence of them, have clearly proved inadequate or inadequate to deal with the various problems affecting this sector, a situation which has been aggravated by the pandemic and the subsequent economic crisis. In this sense, the approval of an artist's statute, long demanded by the sector, has been the subject of attention by this House since several legislatures. Thus, in the plenary session of February 2, 2017, the Congress of Deputies agreed to the creation of a subcommission within the Culture Commission for the elaboration of an artist's statute. Following the establishment of this subcommission, extensive work was initiated with the collaboration of various actors, collectives and organizations in the world of culture in general. Finally, the subcommission issued a report, which thus begins its general considerations: In this LXII Legislature, the Congress of Deputies has done something unprecedented: to recognize the specificity of the work of creators, artists and professionals of culture approving the constitution of a subcommission on the subject. This recognition must be a source of satisfaction from the outset. The subcommission considers that the epochs are not marked only by political changes, as they are also characterized by the cultural heritage they leave behind. With this laudable goal, which we all share in the subcommission, it was bet that the different people, activities and moments of the cultural process entered the statute and we emphasize that whoever creates the work must be formed and investigated and that whoever designs the stage, who illuminates it, and so on, all of them, must have space and consideration. Although they were artists and cultural professionals, it was not the subcommission's task to define what art is or who the artist is, but it was the subcommission's task to define how and how far the activities necessary for the general cultural process can be recognized and promoted. The report he issued sought to establish this basic ground, with obligations and opportunities and with recommendations that served as a legislative agenda for social progress in the area of rights and obligations. This report makes proposals and recommendations to try to solve the various problems that were identified and specified in tax matters, in the area of labour protection and social security and, lastly, in the compatibility of the collection of public benefits with income for intellectual property rights. All these recommendations were included in the report and agreed unanimously in this House on 6 September 2018. It's been almost three years and we still have no status as an artist; it's a sad reality. Moreover, since then, the economic situation and the situation in general has undergone major changes not only at the political level, but also at the health level and, as I said, at the economic level. The crisis resulting from COVID-19 has particularly affected sectors such as culture and has aggravated the problems it already suffered, as well as creating new ones. It is therefore pertinent, urgent and necessary that what this House has agreed on and demanded of the Government sees the light at once, and we cannot say that three months is short, because it is not three months, but three years and three months. Or are we still at zero point? I hope not for the sake of all and all who depend on it. In Euskadi, the Basque Government has already begun to do so, it has already begun to work on the competences it possesses because in those which it does not have, which are of the State, nothing can be done, but at least the cultural sector in Euskadi knows that the Basque Government is working to ensure that they are endowed with that status, that corpus that they need to carry out their work. This group has not wanted to forget this commitment made by this House and it would be respectful and responsible for the government to respond to this dual demand, that of the cultural sector and that of this House. What else does it take to give an answer? What is the government waiting for? When are you really going to commit? Or are there internal, inter-ministerial difficulties preventing action in line with established recommendations? If so, they should not hide. In the end, since there is no greater obligation than the one that marks the calendar, let us set the date of delivery, because, if not, we fear that this issue will be eternalized ad graecas calendars. Culture is a right that society has, a right to enjoy it, but so that culture as a result enriching and pleasurable is a reality, it is previously a work, and it is a productive sector and in many cases an industry. All this is culture and is inseparable. Therefore, there cannot be a gap of abnormality or dysfunction both in the workplace and in the social and fiscal sectors. We can't want a good result under bad conditions. We cannot understand cultural creation as a dissociated ether from its creators, its conditions, its obstacles or its difficulties. It is our duty as legislators, but above all as citizens who have our cultural rights, to respond to our cultural obligations because we owe it to them and to them, to actors, actresses, painters, letters, musicians, illuminators, writers, sculptors, illustrators, arrangers, decorators, directors and so many people who live and believe. Therefore, we urge the government to approve and present in three months the status of the artist who collects the recommendations and proposals put forward by this House in June 2018 with the aim of solving the problems that are affecting the cultural sector. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mrs García Puig, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u27	Very good afternoon. It seems that we have come out of this pandemic and that we have finally begun to see the end of these hard months, and we have come out as a society with many debts, with human debts, with a huge debt to those who take care of our health putting their own lives at risk, but also a huge debt to those who took care of our soul, our thought, our voice, a debt to artists and cultural professionals without whose work these months had turned out to be even harder if it fits. It is very difficult to define culture, many times we ask ourselves, and I liked the words I read to the poet Laura Casielles, who says: 'Culture is the breath in the lock and a way to open the door'. Well, to those who have made us breathe during this confinement precariousness drowns them. The cultural sector, which had not yet recovered from the 2008 crisis, is again hit hard with this pandemic and this health crisis and, as the poet Laura Casielles also says, culture is also figures. There are 7,000 families who live by the trade of the foci, the catwalks and the inks. We're late for those families. That statute should have been approved a long time ago. It wasn't possible, now there's no excuse. The status of the artist, as we said, brings together measures to end the specific precariousness of cultural works and to make our cultural ecosystem sustainable, to make it sustainable in its diversity, allowing this oxygen that Laura Casielles was talking about. So that this can be done, so that a right such as the right to culture, widely recognized in the Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, can be fulfilled, so that this cultural ecosystem can be accessible in its diversity, cannot be put into precariousness. Therefore, and as the former Member of this House Eduardo Maura said, who was one of the driving forces behind this status of the artist, the struggle for the sustainability of the culture and the lives of those who dedicate themselves to it becomes a matter of state and citizenship. Therefore, because this is a matter of state, for our group this work to combat precariousness in culture is one of the fundamental axes of our parliamentary work. And another key focus of our work in cultural policy is the demand for gender equality in the cultural sphere. That is why we have tabled an amendment which will enrich this proposal in this respect. Last October, the Observatory for Gender Equality in the field of Culture presented a study, a report showing that cultural power remains one of the major obstacles still for women and an area of power still inaccessible. In addition, it shows the wage gap within the cultural sphere and how powerful glass ceilings are in this field. Just one thing that should make us blush with shame: the leadership positions of museums, theatres and other high-level cultural institutions under the Ministry of Culture are 77% occupied by men and only 22% occupied by women. This data is even more serious when we go to the faculties where we study careers that have to do with the cultural sphere, for example in Fine Arts, where the majority of students are women, 60% of women and 40% of men. I would like to finish by asking a question to this House, but also a question to society. It is a question that formulates Remedios Zafra in this book entitled Fragiles: Letters on anxiety and hope in the new culture. Remedios Zafra is one of the great thinkers on culture in our country and has also studied the subject of precariousness in the cultural sphere. Well, Remedios Zafra asks this question: It seems to me that if all the precarious people I know, but also all the non-precarious people who in different ways collaborate in the precariousness of others, if all those who had the desire to work with meaning without turning their life into a competition, if they could devote their time to research, classes, works and projects that mobilize them without their bureaucratic breakdown, preparatory deployment, supplemented duplication, precarious contract, administrative silence or imposed announcement occupy the whole of their lives, how many discoveries would we have had? How much valuable production compared to rapid and empty works that pile up? How much anxiety is relieved? Can you imagine? Well, that's what the artist's status is about, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u28	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u29	The corporal. You will imagine a culture without a precarious contract, without bureaucratic labyrinths, without administrative silence. Let's imagine and act as well. We will therefore support this initiative and hope that you will have all the House's consensus that this matter deserves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u31	With your permission. The PNV presents us with a non-legislative proposal to urge the Minister of Culture to complete the status of the artist. VOX has submitted another non-legislative proposal in the same direction since December 2020; read it, which is much more worked. So much so that this difference clearly reflects, like a clarinet, the intention of the PNV to give the Government a warning about transfer times and other conflicts that lead to nationalist obsessions, not a real concern about the situation of artists. Spain, our Spain tortured by many of the national archetypes and involved numerous times in unholy destinations, has, however, been secularly blessed by the art and talent of its people, to the point of having a cultural heritage that objectively does not correspond to the geographical or demographic importance that delimits us today. And that despite the elevating character of many of our compatriots, who have taken to the front, in fratricidal struggles, good part of our heritage, which, curiously, seem not to yearn for the promoters of democratic memory. Spain, often exhausted, has always been prolific and has taken refuge in its pain to give birth to a new work of art, catartica, which has ended up justifying with much greater justification the imperfect society that gave it shelter. There are plenty of examples, just strolling through the galleries of the Prado to feel the society of the Golden Century and the 18th century and to have a benevolent opinion about the monarchy. It's my turn, here and now, to remember that works of art are made by artists. After twenty-five years as a sculptor and some of the works I am proud of, I remember the first days of the second year of the faculty, and what my head teacher, Don Pedro Terrón, told me: Less than 1.5% of those you study here will be able to live from your work. Faced with an unstoppable vocation of our artists, we have a society that is not all that sensitive to beauty. Many are called and few are chosen. This society in general is immersed in a stunned feism that does not contribute to the fullness and dignity of man. Being an artist has a difficult fit in an economicist society. According to 2017 data, 47 % of artists in Spain received less than 8000 euros for their work and less than 4 % paid more than 40 000. European artists do not have very different data. The difference is that during the years I lived in Germany, the state helped me with half the share of the Künstlersozialkasse - social security for artists, so that we understand each other -; the IRPF stretch was quite small and I was recognized expenses that here Treasury simply does not admit and, of course, did not subject me to four tax inspections. It was a much more humane deal. [[Applauds]] I remember how I went as a student to one of Arc's first samples, I saw Queen Sofia born in 1992 and my father tell me that he studied medicine there. We have great museums, catalogues and restorations with budgets that remove the hiccups, corporate responsibility and cultural work, but everything resembles me in 2001: an odyssey of space, a perfectly sterile environment with HAL in charge and the whole culture of humanity wandering silently through the universe; dead authors, but duly catalogued. City to our authors while they're alive. The scandal that meant that a successful author, in fact, could not retire for fear of the Treasury ruining it and claiming copyright seems to be solved. Due to digitization, today we are worse than in the Golden Century and the Quixote of Avellaneda in relation to the protection of copyright. Why can companies in this world without virgin lands not recognize the intellectual rights of our creators? This mature society is adorned with originality while other aesthetic values are ignored: virtuosity, composition, craft, rhythm. Everything is subordinated, from the vanguard to the novelty. This minister has inherited an agreement on the status of the artist unanimously and seventy agreed measures. This could be called a state pact; in order to solve the fringes, we have had three years of fringes. We may not be alien to this annoyance either, as before touching power it demanded loudly and none of these GNPs would be needed if they had a word. I remember the dignity of the illicit goat: 'I am not from a village of oxen,/that I am from a village that seizes / lion deposits,/ eagle parades/and bull ranges/with pride in auction'. Like St. Augustine, he has been able to interpret in an unparalleled way:...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u32	Mr. Requejo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u33	I'll be right there. 'Lately I loved you, so old and so new beauty, late I loved you!'. I wish you, artists of the world, that your many paths lead everyone to wonder, which becomes admiration and unspeakable joy. John Paul II to all artists. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Requejo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Cruz-Guzmán García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u35	Thank you, Madam President. The endless story, the day of the marmot or the desert crossing? Either of these titles serves us to narrate what is being done to process the artist's status. Three years ago all the political groups that formed this House did a great deal of work, that of achieving unanimous approval of seventy-five measures that would improve the quality of the work of the more than seven hundred thousand professionals in the field of culture. There was a need for labour, tax and training measures for a sector with its own identity, marked by intermittentness and a weak business structure. What was received as a great advance and a democratic example has been made by this Sánchez government one of the great legislative frustrations, and is that Sánchez does not feel comfortable with debate or consensus, prefers to rule decrees after decrees to add half a hundred. As much as Mr Uribes talks about the status of the artist on the occasions he visits this House does not believe in him. He claims it won't be a document as such. We understand that it means that it will not be a law but a set of amendments to pre-existing laws. But it will have to be made up of a document, such as this, which contains the recommendations that we have agreed on by all political groups, the Socialist Group as well as all cultural sectors. [[shows a document]] The Government's obligation is to turn the recommendations into law. In his first appearance the minister announced to us his broad legislative agenda, from a new law of sport to the culmination of this status of the artist, and for this he promised an interministerial table, so varied the measures. But we've been waiting for what's going on in the legislature and it hasn't been able to call yet. For when? By 2050? The legislative inactivity in the field of culture is certainly alarming: two months without debate in the Committee on Culture; we do not have the draft of the Lady, which had as its deadline yesterday to have been approved by this House; we do not know anything about the law on aid to the cultural sector. If there is a crisis in the government, as is already being said, we will be alert to the new list of ministers to see if Mr Uribes is there, because otherwise, because of his activity it is impossible to know. He had a golden opportunity to process Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 as a bill. It could have taken immediate measures, such as allowing specific trade unions to provide occupational training. It could put order in the chaos of the CNAE, which prevents access to aid to many cultural sectors. It may not limit the social expenditure of management entities. It could make it possible to make retirement compatible with one-off income. Why miss the talent of Concha Velasco or the talent of El Brujo or the pleasure of rereading a novel by Javier Marias? Many of the measures collected would allow to fight against the submerged economy and give breath to the artists, with the deserved security of unforeseen events that any worker deserves. But, as I told you, this minister does not believe in the status of the artist, and proof of this is component 24 sent to Brussels, where the destination of the scarce European funds for the cultural field is collected: not even 0.8 %. This document defines the budget applied for the status of the artist, and the total amount is zero euros. Tell me what the artist's status will be if you don't have a budget. I am going to say this, in the same way as the Observatory for Equality of the Ministry of Culture, to which Mr Uribes listens deafly, despite the requests for funding for its operation by all the associations which make up it and which work altruistically and which our parliamentary group joins. He knows that our group has always been willing to work for the statute, loyally, seeking to be effective and agile. We have been patient, but cultural professionals can't wait any longer, and the sad thing is that, meeting after meeting, they repeat the same thing to us: it's what we expected from this government!That's what we expected from this minister! And it's that culture doesn't trust the minister or Sanchez, like Spain. Uribes has managed to create the shadow of doubt about any promise he can make about the status of the artist. We therefore ask you to hold the first inter-ministerial meeting before the end of June and urge you to be able to develop a real timetable for implementing the measures we have collected. All else will be to write the script of a film that will remain, as Mr. Uribes has done with the status of the artist, at the bottom of a drawer. I can only thank the PNV for bringing this GNP to the House. I would also like to thank all the cultural sectors, the protagonists and the authors of this statute, whom I ask for their greater involvement in demanding that what we have already agreed in this House be carried out firmly. Their future and that of Spanish culture are at stake. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Valle de Iscar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u37	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The Socialist Group, three years after the adoption by this House of the report of the Sub-Commission for the elaboration of a Statute for the Artist, takes advantage of the opportunity given us by this non-law proposal of the EAJ-PNV Group to show our absolute commitment to this road map, which I recall was adopted unanimously by the groups. By the way, how easy it is always for the right when the PSOE is in opposition to reach large country agreements. It is in our political culture that citizens' interests are put before simple electoral strategies. I also want to be accountable for what has happened in these three years. I think that thinking that this has been a linear time, in which nothing has happened, is a little short of the truth. In these three years we have had an intense political life, with a motion of censure that led Pedro Sánchez to the presidency of the Government, two subsequent general elections and a global pandemic, which has logically upset the priorities of the Government, prioritizing in its action the safeguarding of health, the social protection of people and the economy. It should be remembered that some contributions included in this text have been seeing the light at this time, such as, for example, in the Royal Decree 26/2018, only six months after the motion of censure, changes in the IRPF and in the company tax or the reduction of VAT, yes, that which you have raised in astronomical quantities to the world of culture; in the reform of the Royal Decree 302/2019, where the collection of pensions of the general regime with copyrights are made compatible for our creators, or the recent extension of these same rights contained in the last General Budgets of the State also for retirees of the passive classes. Our bet is so firm and clear in its implementation, as the minister has said several times in parliamentary office, that it has been included as one of the ten lever policies within the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Specifically, component 24 talks about the development of the artist's Statute. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a commitment, not only to the citizenry and to this House but also to our European partners. Have no doubt we're going to do it. We are faced with one of the most important legislative projects that seek to respond to the urgent needs of the sector, recognizing its own characteristics, such as, for example, the intermittentness of work or the temporary irregularity in obtaining income. All of these people need a tax with tailor-made social protection, following a basic principle of equality, which is to deal unequally with situations that are unequal to the rest of the workers. We are talking about a sector where there is also the gender gap between men and women, where minors work, and this has to be regulated, where professional careers are short by their very nature, where there are unresolved aspects of maternity. We also aim to end precariousness and ensure that these people at the end of their working lives have decent pensions. And what else have we been doing so far? We have recovered the Ministry of Culture, yes, that which you treated as a surname or as the back door of any other ministry. We have provided him with funds, in these last General Budgets of the State they reach almost 1000 million euros, which will make him a serious and coordinated actor in order to lead the status of the artist. It is an injection of money for the whole sector that will alleviate certain consequences of the pandemic and the disinvestment that you have made in the People's Party for years and years to culture. We will not forget that they reduced the budget for culture by 30% each year. I don't know if you're PSOE. Sorry, not PSOE, for sure. I don't know if it's old PP or new PP. If it's the new PP I understand that all these things don't go with you, but the people of the old PP will perfectly understand that cluster of cuts and that precariousness. This led to the study of the situation of artists and came to conclusions, after years and years of disinvestment by their party in public policies, especially in cultural policies. I hope it's not a we're going to change everything so we don't change anything, famous phrase of Luciano Visconti's movie, and that in the end we keep doing the same thing. I believe that there is a broad and strong commitment to culture, and we will work for it. This same month the interministerial commission will meet, we will take the first steps and I am sure that, with the support of all, we will have a great status of the artist, well deserved by the sector and so important for all of us and all of us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Basque Group is proposing an initiative to return to this Chamber one of those issues which remains stagnant and dormant when it falls within the executive domain, although its debate within the parliamentary framework has led to a very broad political consensus. On this occasion it is a status of the artist which reflects the recommendations, answers and proposals put forward in this House three years ago, product of the report drawn up and approved for this purpose by a subcommittee set up within the Committee on Culture. We are talking about an area which, in addition to an impact on society of extraordinary importance, has a negligible contribution to the national GDP, of the order of 3.2%, and on which tens of thousands of jobs turn, which, in turn, induce a great deal of work. That report, as has been recalled, was subsequently approved by the plenary at the beginning of September 2018 in the XII Legislature, and collected numerous proposals, overwhelmingly supported, to present solutions to different problems around the cultural worker, whose activity, and even more so in extraordinary circumstances such as the COVID-19 pandemic, is subject to great instability. And what did the government of progress, that of the record of receipt of light and that of the rise of taxes to mansalva to develop the status of the committed artist so long ago? For something imperceptible, it would be said that just a mini-series of emergency measures of fiscal nature through a royal decree-law that was validated in the final weeks of the XII Legislature and other ephemerals that have served as an excuse to the Ministry of Culture not to take on the commission received in the Congress of Deputies nor to realize the content of the proposals in favor of creativity and artistic culture. That is why there is scepticism and discredit in the management of the Government in this area as well. That is why we find ourselves here this afternoon urging the Government to take action, once and for all, to present a status of the artist in which the seventy-five sections of the conclusions of a parliamentary subcommittee which worked very intensively during the year and a half, in which numerous representatives of different cultural sectors participated, and which collected a lot of documentation of great value in order to finish an excellent work, which was also given a very broad social recognition and a deposit of trust, to which the Government of Pedro Sánchez has not been up to or down; it has simply not been. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine you all know that, once this initiative has been included in the agenda of this plenary session, the Minister of Culture, Mr Rodríguez Uribes - to whom I suppose another firm candidate for the crisis of the blue bank, who in Moncloa have had the kindness to announce in advance for that of stability - has been propagating himself in the last few days publicly announcing to right-handed and sinister a rain of millions; what I say rain!, a laugh of which are time: 325 in cultural re-evaluation; 200 million more for the audiovisual industry; another drop of EUR 500 million or so, in combination with Economy, Industry and Foreign Affairs. A year and a half of this legislature has been lost in order to be able to advance the status of the artist, and the Government has finally given itself up. Mr Agirretxea, I congratulate you, because with your initiative it seems that this is moving. We will see, however, how much money and sound there is in the publications and in the multi-millionaire propaganda of this troll government with the performing arts and with the world of creativity and culture to complete the parliamentary commission, just as the different sectors are emerging. In short, we are faced with a proposal that is not clear, concrete and concise and that is in the only effective line to urge the Government to be very agile in solving the problems that are affecting the cultural sector. You should not fall, Mr Basque Group spokesman, into the mermaid songs which have been presented, by amendment, by the Socialist Group and by the United Nations, We can, on the alimon, to prolong, under the pretext of the gender struggle in the cultural sphere, the stay in the drawer of the oblivion of an artist's status which should already be developed long ago. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u41	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. It has already been said that the Plenary of this Congress unanimously approved, in September 2018, the report made by a subcommittee that provided guidelines for the elaboration of an artist's statute. It was indeed welcomed and hoped for by the sector. It was a hopeful road map, with seventy-five points to combat the specific precariousness of cultural and artistic works. Some of the measures included in this report have actually been implemented through two royal decrees. One of them was the compatibility of the perception of retirement with the collection of copyright, and there is some more measure already mentioned, but not much more; moreover, this measure on the collection of copyright, which responded to the recommendations made in the report, has had a very partial, very limited scope, because it left out retired persons with non-contributory pension, i.e. the vast majority of artists and artists. So it cannot be said that the journey was neither fruitful nor exemplary. Little progress has been made, and the reality is that today the status of the artist does not exist, not even posed as an outline. All there is is that set of recommendations that were drawn up and brought about unanimity among the groups of the Congress. It's worth remembering, because sometimes we talk and talk in the media as if the artist's status existed, and it's not. That's why it's urgent to get it started. We know that the three-month period may not be sufficient time for this, because it involves work that affects quite a few ministries up to seven ministries would be concerned and it is these that have to implement the respective measures. But to start the way you have to take the first step and start it up. We all know that the artist's ecosystem is fragile, unequal, mostly made up of small businesses, plagued by difficulties in access to benefits and labour rights, which in other areas are of course, and that it is subject to a vulnerability that has become more than evident in these pandemic times. Temporality, intermittence, heterogeneity, being a project-based sector, uncertainty about the results of the creation process or the fact that the creative process is not taken into account are the difficulties that surround the artistic profession and also those that hinder the development of the legislative framework. In short, creators deliver their full dedication in exchange for mere subsistence in the vast majority of cases. In any case, it is true that the status of the artist is on the agenda of this Government. It is included in the reforms presented by the Ministry of Culture for the processing of European funds. Minister Uribes has been saying-right is that for too long already - that will be the milestone that marks this legislature. Finally, it is said that palace things go slowly, but it could be said that those of Congress go backwards, especially when it comes to rights, as is the case, because we talk about rights, and especially when there is a general consensus to give them a course. If it's all for and it's not moving forward, then we're facing a clear setback. So we agree with what the GNP is proposing, also that we must do it as quickly as possible. In addition, we believe that it is urgent to do so, because our autonomous communities will need to complement this status in order to adapt it to the peculiarity and uniqueness of Basque art, Basque artists and Basque artists. Therefore, one more point should be added to the Commission's recommendations, not to forget it, because, otherwise, the cultural conception of plurinationality as a cross-cutting principle would be relegated, and it must also be taken into account. For all these reasons, we shall vote in favour. Of course, it also needs to integrate a gender perspective. It is necessary and urgent to treat artistic professionals as they are, a sector to be taken into account and to have their rights recognized. It is simply this, and we must do so urgently. Practically everything is to be done. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u43	Thank you, President. The reform that gave rise to the most consensus in recent legislatures returns to Congress because it is still abandoned. The key question is why. They're throwing balloons out today. Today the PSOE and Podemos will say that it is very important, that they care a lot about culture, that they love culture, they will make appointments, they will tell us the last play or film they have seen and they will do some contortionism exercise to try to avoid the reality that the Vasco Nationalist Party brings with this PNL, to which I am grateful that it has brought this matter here. It seems to me that they are going to vote in favour, but I am already telling you that in three months I do not think that what I am going to list here will be done and that it says the status of the artist. I think they'll put it more in the 2050 Agenda than in the next three months. The Socialist Group has grown up as the main achievement of a Ministry of Culture, which has reopened the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and it is true, but they have also made a Ministry of Consumer Affairs, and we already know what these ministries are for. [[The Lord]] It was the last ministry that brought a royal decree, due to the pressure of the sector in the face of the pandemic and the situation of cultural workers. It is a very inactive ministry, a ministry that brings us practically nothing. The report was voted unanimously, and there were very important issues, some of which I am going to tell you here, and tell me which is not perfectly suitable for cultural workers. A large package of measures to modernise the taxation of cultural workers. Everyone knows that cultural work goes beyond public representation, beyond interpretation, that there are essays, papers, writing. We call for recognition of this period as well. This was requested in the report of the presentation of the status of the artist. In addition, cultural work has difficulty in taxing. Taxation must be facilitated, since it is many workers who have to supplement their activity with another job, with another source of income, and are income of a different nature. They should therefore be made easier to put forward their respective powers. Of course, social coverage must also be ensured for these periods of physical preparation, sometimes with serious risks, which we know occur in many artistic activities. The IRPF Regulation, for example, is another important proposal that brings the artist's status when it talks about the rents obtained in a notoriously irregular way over time. These are those which take place in periods, for example, of two years and which take place at a given time. These incomes tax 70% on a list of substances in the form of numerus clausus which is covered by the IRPF Regulation. It does not cover income obtained either by creators or by rights derived from intellectual property. The statute has solutions for all this. But it also provides for the deduction of expenses in training, in instruments, working tools, lockers, stage materials, which are deductible the expenses in promotion, fees, in commissions received by representatives and agents, all expenses that in all other professions are deductible. Why are they not deductible in cultural-related professions? In addition, there are now too many cultural workers who have disputes with the Treasury. Doesn't this circumstance draw your attention, that there are permanent workers in the cultural sector in tax trials? Don't you realize that we're not a tax-attractive country for creators? It is true that we have everything else, because Spain is the epicenter of the world in culture in many subjects. In addition to all this I say to you in the area of taxation and social security, it is important to stress that another matter which also takes the status as the main point to develop is the fight against the false autonomous, who proliferate in this area. The subcommission's report contains formulas and recommendations for the fight against self-employed fakes, the main one being to make the special regime of self-employed workers more flexible in this area, so that you can discharge yourself on the days when your activity as an artist takes place. These issues need to be addressed now. The world of culture cannot afford political instability. We are very late, and this House runs the risk of falling into a greater discredit for not pushing the necessary reforms, especially Spain, for not caring for its artists, writers, musicians, magicians, actors and a magnificent and long et cetera that builds day by day the heritage that will remain forever and for future generations in Spain. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I begin by announcing that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, because we share the sense and urgency that the initiative presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group expresses. Ladies and gentlemen, when in 2018 this House unanimously approved the recommendations resulting from the Sub-Commission on a Status of the Artist, it did so with the conviction that we would soon see the light. We must confess that some of us had hope, because a few months after the adoption of the statute and after a change of government Mr Guirao presented a first royal decree that already incorporated some impact measures; there were few, they were the easy ones, in fact, but they already gave a feeling that it was starting to work. It has rained a lot since then, so much so that I would swear that, beyond Mr Agirretxea, Mr Díaz and myself, there is no one left from that subcommittee in this House. With which, someone must start working. You said, "It's just that a lot of things have happened in those three years. Yes, a lot has happened, especially in the last year. I will tell you one thing: in the last year and a half, the Ministry of Education, which has also been the victim of all the things that have happened, has passed an educational reform; the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which has also been the victim, like everyone else, of the pandemic that we have all suffered, has passed an ecological transition law; the Ministry of Social Rights has passed a child protection law, and the question is what the Minister of Culture has done all this time. You know what he did? When the crisis began, he came out and said: First life and then cinema. Which is certainly an aperitif of what we expected the following days: that he would do nothing to wait for the others to save lives. It would have been well, Your Honor, that while the others saved lives the Minister of Culture would have protected culture; he would have begun to draft the initiatives and the real decrees that must be drafted so that the status of artist, who has a consensus like he has none of the initiatives that I have quoted before they have been approved in this House, could begin to walk. That is why I recommend that you start working; that you recommend to the Minister that he start drawing up the measures that are written and that have consensus, because you know that when he gets to this House they will be approved because the work is done by the entities, by the sector and by the parliamentary groups, by everyone, ladies and gentlemen, less by the Ministry of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor again; in this case, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u47	Thank you, President. 'For dissolving we are still in the trench and our weapons are the words'; unfortunately we are still in the trench and our weapons are the words. This phrase was pronounced in 1980 by the poet and playwright Joan Oliver, known as Pere Quart, who, persecuted during the Civil War for defending Catalan culture from the Institution of the Catalan Lletres, was exiled to France and then to South America. When he returned to Catalonia he was imprisoned by Francoism, but the repression did not silence him, but gave him strength and his words traveled in the music of Llach, Raimon or Serrat. The circumstances are different - indeed - but a few days after the 35th anniversary of the death of Pere Quart the artists are somehow still in the trench of precariousness and today this Parliament must turn the words into weapons that rise up in defense of all forms of art. The work of the status of the artist is going on for too many acts: since the creation of the subcommission in 2017, passing through the unanimous approval of the report in the Committee on Culture in 2018 or its arrival at this plenary session with some points such as the one that ended the incompatibility of retirement with the collection of copyright revenues; many chapters but still far from the descent of the curtain despite the fact that there is a great consensus for a happy ending. The status of the artist has been an urgent issue for this government for years and, look, when the urgency is postponed, there is a great risk that it will become a drama, even more so if a pandemic is added to the screenplay that has aggravated to despair the situation of many artists, actors, musicians and professionals of the performing arts. For the staging of the statute there are many actors of distribution, beyond the Ministry of Culture and Sport, are the ministries with competences such as Finance, Social Security, Labour and Economic Affairs, but we must not forget that here the main actor is the artist. So since Junts we voted in favour of the PNV proposal to present and approve the artist's status in three months on the basis of the 2018 text, a text that recognizes the artist's heterogeneity and the great diversity of groups that must be included under his protection. Art is important, so much so that Federico García Lorca said: I, if I were hungry and crippled on the street, would not ask for a bread, but for half a bread and a book; perhaps today, this one.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. This of being the last to intervene at one point has its hangicap and is that practically all the things we wanted to say have been said. It is clear that we have been in this debate on the status of the artist for a long time. Since that distant January 2018 in which the working document of the subcommission for the status of the artist was unanimously approved - was my colleague Xavi Eritja -, more than three years have passed and has progressed very little, very little, and we have debated much, until I think we have debated too much, because we have approved PNL in commission unanimously, we have questioned the minister, the minister has made many appearances in which he told us that this interministerial working group was about to be set up with the aim of drafting the status of the artist. It's been three years and we don't have the status of an artist. It has been a year and a half since the beginning of this parliamentary term and we do not have the approved document on the table. And there is a majority going beyond the majority of the investiture; I suppose this GNP will be adopted unanimously. Therefore, we have the historic opportunity to approve this status of the artist. We see a lot of frustration in the sector. We have gone from that illusion from three years ago to a lot of frustration, because they see many debates, they see many quotes from artists, films, books, but few facts. We need to move from words to facts. This must be the legislature of the status of the artist, said the minister of culture - he has said in several appearances - and we hope so. By Republican Esquerra it will not remain; we have said so many times, we will vote in favour and we will help whenever necessary to make this status of the artist a reality. They are no longer worth excuses, said the spokesman of En Comú Pomem: we are leaving the pandemic, no longer worth the excuse of the pandemic. It is no longer worth that we first save lives and then save cinema; that of: first the most important and then the culture. When we talk about culture, when we go up here or in committee When we talk about the cultural sector, it seems that we are talking about something ethereal, an ethereal entity, and behind the cultural sector and behind culture there are many precarious workers. It is a sector that was already fragile, it was already precarious before the COVID crisis, and it is even more fragile today. We are in front of precarious workers, small self-employed, small businesses struggling to reach the end of the month. We will therefore vote in favour of this GNP, whether it is voted on in the terms in which it has been presented by the Basque Nationalist Party or whether it is voted on in the terms of the amendment of the PSOE and of the Union Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u50	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u51	Yes, Mr. President. We accept the joint amendment by Podemos and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u52	All right. Thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO ESTABLISHING A TRUE PLAN OF DIRECT AID THAT SHALL BE DISTRIBUTED EQUATATIVELY IN ALL NATIONAL TERRITORY AND IS DIRECTED TO ALL AUTONEOMS AND ENTERPRISES AFFECTED BY THE PANDEMIA CAUSED BY COVID-19. [[File number 162/000636]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u53	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group to create a genuine direct aid plan that is distributed equitably throughout the national territory and is aimed at all self-employed and entrepreneurs affected by the pandemic caused by COVID-19. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u54	Since the first state of unconstitutional alarm was decreed, many businesses and self-employed people have seen the billing of their businesses gradually fall; it fell so much that many have had to close after years of struggle, of hours dedicated to their businesses and rations to their families, of personal indebtedness risking their assets; closing their source of income is the closure to their present and to their future, to their workers and to their children. Yes, there is a virus of Chinese origin, but it turns out that this government, supported by separatists, communists, florets, and kneeling before the coups, is directly responsible for these closures and for the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing as a result of their policies; it is the government that is talking today about dialogue with criminals. Dialogue? Why don't they talk to the self-employed and the entrepreneurs, who don't get help? Why don't you talk to those who are in the queues of hunger, those who have abandoned? They don't talk to them, maybe because they're not able to look them in the eye or maybe because they can't guarantee their armchairs. It is the Government that has kidnapped us with curfews, that of perimeter closures, restrictions and prohibitions, which speaks of direct aid that does not receive either SMEs or self-governing. The mismanagement of this government is a hoteler who kills himself, is the anguish of a travel agent, a taxi driver, an artist, a trader, a bus driver, a dancer, a fairer and that of many Spaniards who do not know how to pay their debts and taxes. The hoteliers in Malaga tell me: they're ruining us. This unplanned government again abandons us in Europe by not asking for aid for the tourism sector. VOX said that in March last year in our program Protect Spain: employment and liquidity. Do you remember? And we talked about the plant, but the plant has already dried up. The Spanish are victims of a serious crisis and what has the Government done? In December, nine months after the start of the pandemic, the Decree-Law 35/2020, which offers indebtedness and postponement, measures far removed from those adopted by the rest of the countries and which were considered insufficient by organizations such as the Association of Self-Employed Workers, Hosteleria Spain and the Spanish Confederation of Travel Agencies. One year after the health crisis, it published the discriminatory Decree-Law 5/2021 - which would allow aid to only 95 of the 538 CNAE - with such requirements and conditions that will make it practically impossible to obtain access to them, that it does not achieve an equitable distribution among the regions that have suffered the most from the health crisis, that it unprotects a part of the Spanish industry and that it despises the transport of goods, hairdressers, aesthetic centers, decorative shops, self-schools, regulated educational centers, souvenir shops, workshops, active tourism companies. They also approve Decree-Law 6/2021, which, among other issues, delegates to autonomous bodies the capacity to decide which sectors will be eligible for aid; a new abandonment of functions, a new chaos and discrimination with first- and second-rate self-employed and entrepreneurs, depending on which community they operate in. Aid does not come, but it does raise taxes. I was outraged by a shopkeeper from the Algeciras supply market: I look forward to the next bill of light because my refrigerator works 24 hours a day and for me there is no time valley. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the practical reality should be that any company in any sector that has seen its income lost may be eligible for aid, such aid which has been claiming more than a year, without leaving out of it self-employed workers and entrepreneurs with newly created businesses who, like any company in their early years, have suffered losses in the first years of life, and therefore are not less viable. For a SME there is no money, but for the government's friendly airlines, which have been in loss for years, or for the new official cars, for that there is money. [[Applauds]] Socialists? We'll see what your priorities are. The direct aid plan drawn up by the Government has not met the economic reality or the needs of the Spanish business fabric, and thousands of self-employed people and entrepreneurs live in a situation of uncertainty in which they do not know whether they will be able to lift their blinds tomorrow and continue their activity. That is why, once again, VOX brings to this House a non-legislative proposal to defend the interests of the self-employed, SMEs, businesses and workers, because the best social policy is employment - yes, the best social policy is employment - and because we do not want the Spanish poor and dependent. [[applause]] We therefore urge the Government to take the necessary steps to amend Decree-Law 5/2021: to increase the amount, to eliminate Annex I, which unjustifiably discriminated against, and to establish more flexible requirements for the concept of a viable company that can qualify for such aid. Sánchez, stops selling Spain to coup, stops destroying and creates a real plan of direct aid that is distributed equitably throughout the national territory and aimed at all self-employed and entrepreneurs. [[Applauds]] Because they can't anymore; it's that they don't seem to listen to them, it's that they don't seem to empathize with them, it's that they don't seem to meet with them; the later they do, more business closure, more job loss, more ruin and misery, more hopelessness. VOX says it loud and clear: all work is essential. Do not abandon the workers, the entrepreneurs, the self-employed; do not abandon the young; do not abandon our elders. And know that they want bread, don't crumble; and know that VOX will continue to fight and fight for each of the Spaniards every day of our lives and every initiative we register in Congress and in each of the institutions in which we have a presence. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Firstly, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In order for something to be distributed first it has to exist and it is clear that in this matter of aid to the self-employed and to small entrepreneurs the Government has done as in almost everything else: the holder does, even decrees are passed in the Congress where the financial amounts appear, but then they do not reach the recipients. It has happened with this, it has happened with the municipalities and it continues to happen, and with many other things. But the fixing of the government with the self-employed is worth studying, because I believe that it was the collective that was most attacked during this pandemic, the ones that have suffered the most and of course the least concerned by the government. There is nothing more to see than that not only do they not get the aid, they have not only had to have the business closed, but they have been taxed and they are also threatened with the increase in contributions - then there is another item on the agenda that speaks expressly about this -. Therefore, a group that has been explicitly and implicitly crushed by the Government. And all that stuff is being added up. I do not know if when the government meets they give an award to which they attack more, in this case to the self-employed. As I said, it has happened with the quotations and now we see it also with the price of light. It is clear that it is one of the groups that suffer the most from this rise in light, that it seemed that it would never exist and that when some parties came to the government it would end, and one of the most attacked because they cannot discriminate by slots; of course, I believe that they cannot be asked that, or even so, because some ministers already say, like the Minister of Ecological Transition himself, that from ten in the evening to eight in the morning they are not so bad hours to do things either. So, just like what you're saying is that it's the schedule that the self-employed have to carry out. In short, as I say, a punished group. At this point, I believe that one could ask that one of those members of the government, of those ministers and ministers who have the government absolutely unoccupied, devote time to this collective, to self-employed and small entrepreneurs, before the president ends up throwing them away, as it seems to be happening in the coming days. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u58	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, this isn't even surprising anymore. Using sensitive elements, doing so to distort their characteristics, making an easy critique to get an immediate political revenue is, among other things, one of the most obvious characteristics of populism, and that is what happens again. The VOX Parliamentary Group - and not clearly, but simply loudly - brings us a new fascicle of discourses supposedly aligned with sectors affected by the crisis using its most striking elements in a partial and biased way and obviating other equally transcendent characteristics if they are contemplated from another perspective, such as that of the general interest and public utility. Surely 7 billion is not enough for the self-employed, but it is quite an important precision. It is, among other things, the measure of the effort that this government can possibly make as a State, and that is something that must be taken into account when talking about any kind of aid, when talking about any kind of policy; one thing is to want and another thing is power. No association representing the sector, ATA or Uatae or any minority or others are ever to be considered satisfied with the degree of involvement or the amount of the aid envisaged, but this is logical in an entity that does not have to have a different perspective than that of its partners' interests. But, from there, when it comes to a political initiative, if it is done with a perspective - I understand that the appropriate one - of general interest, of public benefit - and it is supposed that a political party is an entity of public benefit - it is up to it not only to specify measures, but quantities, conditions. How much are we talking about? Who's it made up of? With what requirements? What is meant by this is to feed into a fictitious debate, without taking into account that there are other characteristics to be specified, as, for example, it does when it calls for the incorporation of aid into sectors or activity codes which for different reasons are excluded, mention, in this case, with which we might agree. In our view, the aid to self-employed persons in successive royal decree-laws and the measure we have pointed out deserve a positive assessment, without prejudice to the need for improvements in order to ensure that no sector of activity is helpless. It is not so much a question of taking care of sectors as of taking care of self-employed persons, of taking care of businesses, of taking care of specific activities which, apart from their cataloguing or the code of activity in which they are framed, deserve the attention of the State, either in the form of aid, or in the form of any other measure, but precisely because the impact of COVID on its specific businesses is to be shown. Whatever their characteristics and whatever the causes of the downsizing of their business, all self-employed people, if they have had losses linked to the pandemic, should be able to access the aid. PNL never tries to do anything like that. So, as you can imagine, you are not going to have our support in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u60	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Three months have passed since the validation of the direct aid decree; three months later we continue to debate this issue while the autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises have not seen a euro; nor a euro. 25% of Spanish SMEs need urgent financial aid and could not survive in the summer if they do not receive it as soon as possible. And here we continue to debate, because of the incompetence of this government in designing a mechanism for access and distribution of aid. That's 700,000 companies on the edge. I have said this repeatedly from this rostrum, they arrived late and arrived badly, because this decree was already born wounded by death. Why do something agile and simple when we can complicate it from the government, right? The truth is that the Government has never believed in direct aid to recover the economy, self-governing and business because this Government has never believed in private initiative, in the personal and property sacrifice of citizens who create jobs and wealth. This afternoon we discussed this initiative, which Mrs Rueda has been devoutly defending with good intention, which, however, does not bring more than many leaflets, many graphics, but no concrete measures, nor a single proposal. However, we will vote in favour of the initiative because Citizens have been constantly defending and denouncing the mistakes of this mechanism since it was approved and validated. The first mistake is to establish first hand the distribution of aid by sector, an exclusionary criterion that generates inequality, when, as we asked them in their day - and this Member personally asked the Economic Vice-President - would have sufficed with a single criterion, that of invoicing, without the need to distinguish between sectors; with the criterion and the invoicing filter it could have been excluded those companies that do not meet the criteria of special impact on the grounds of pandemic. And I want to give you an example: a pharmacy office near a hotel or a campsite in a tourist area, with this mechanism, with the mechanism devised by the government, has no access to the aids, and you will already tell me what you are going to sell or the billing of a pharmacy near the hotel or a campsite in a tourist area. He might also have to be entitled to this aid, but with this mechanism devised by the Government he will not receive it. The second mistake of these two government decrees is that they leave the management of the funds to the autonomous communities and it is these that set the level of aid according to the amount received, creating again more inequality between companies in the same sector located in different territories. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these aids, as I have repeatedly said in this rostrum, should have been articulated from the state level, with homogeneous and comparable criteria, to ensure that all companies under the same economic conditions receive the same treatment, regardless of their tax domicile. Moreover - and this latter defect was also brought to the economic vice president in person - the mechanism imposes a huge administrative burden on the autonomous communities, a burden that many communities cannot face because they do not have the personal means, the human resources to carry out this, not less detail than, as I told them, I brought to the attention of the economic vice president. In short, three regrettable mistakes that have made today, three months later, our small and medium-sized enterprises and our self-employed have not seen a euro. The two royal decrees of the Government are a flight forward; a flight forward to stay in Moncloa for longer. This is not what the Spaniards deserve, it is not what our autonomous people and our economy deserve, because the Spaniards deserve a government and some representatives at their level and not that they put sticks on the wheels. We will continue to work for them, to offer the alternative they deserve, because there is another way to do things and that's what we do in Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have here a proposal by VOX, the People's Party's crutch party, and I have to admit that we can agree, even if it seems impossible, with some of its proposals. We agree that aid should be increased or that such aid should not be linked to that classification of codes, which in many cases has been an impediment to many companies receiving aid. But I must admit that it contrasts sharply with the profuse presentation of reasons with proposals which are scarce and very poorly defined. They're now asking for 7 billion. And why 7,000 and not 10,000 or 12,000 or 20,000? You ask...! Why do they now ask for 7 billion and in March voted against those 11 billion? Although they disagreed in the processing, they were ultimately 11 billion. Who would manage those funds? The ministry? Autonomous communities? On what criteria? Look, works are love and not good reasons. In Madrid, a government in which you are the crutch of the People's Party, you have lost 600 million in aid to self-employed people, SMEs and businesses because Mrs Ayuso was interested in an electoral advance. And VOX said something? Nothing, to his things, to promote hatred of unaccompanied minors, to parental censorship, to immigrants, to those who do not think like them, in short, to do those things that he likes to do to VOX. You really don't care about the self-employed or the SMEs or anything, you care about those things and you also benefit whenever you can the powerful and... - I fucked up... but yes - I fucked up the most humble.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u63	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u64	In short, that is VOX, supporter of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u65	Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u66	Thank you very much, President. We, even if it seems a lie to you, do not agree with your motion as a result of questioning, because asking for more money is fine, but what are you asking? It concerns all self-employed persons, all activities and throughout the Spanish territory equally. With this we do not agree, because the impact on the activities of the self-employed has not been identical in the Basque Country, Andalusia or Catalonia, because the measures restricting economic activity have not been exactly the same. Apart from making a motion as a result of questioning and staying well here and being able to distribute the videos on social networks - which I am sure they are interested in and in which I must also say that they have some success - will they have thought of amending the actual decree-law that is being dealt with as a bill because some groups take care to deal with it this way and because we ask the Government to rectify so that activities in different autonomous communities are dealt with differently because some had had an impact and some did not? Because doing politics is this. To make politics is to make politics useful. You come up to this rostrum and make an arena today in favour of the self-employed, as if the self-employed are very much concerned; and in the next week you will come and make an arena in favour of the unemployed young people with studies and who do not find work, and it will also seem that you are very much concerned; the next week you will come up here and make an arena in favour of the long-term unemployed who do not find work, and it will also seem that you defend them, but the unemployed, the self-employed, the young person who does not find work must know that VOX does not worry about their lack of work or their economic situation, no, VOX the only thing he wants is the self-employed, the unemployed, the sick on waiting lists to get votes to do the anti-politics, how much worse, better. This is the approach VOX is making. Yeah, and they're doing it everywhere. Do you know what's going on? That this kind of approach in politics has an expiry date.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u67	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos - Galicia in common, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u68	Good afternoon. You bring an initiative with a serious subject and with very little serious wording, first of all because based on press headlines and not on real data offered by the independent official bodies is very little serious and, further, because these employment data, the ERTE and the extraordinary benefits of autonomous and autonomous, those data that they do not want to use, completely disarticulate the account of the lack of aid, especially if compared to previous crises. You, VOX, have gone from boasting of being the first political party to call for the state of alarm on March 10, 2020 to be the flag against the state of alarm itself. Beyond that, it is true that, except for the support in the first extension of the state of alarm in the confinement, the vote of 25 March 2020, the five more extensions that took place that spring were met with their negative vote in this House, and it should be remembered that the first social shield, the ERTE, the extraordinary benefits for cessation of activity of autonomous and autonomous of those months depended on the extension of the state of alarm. That is, you did not vote only against the state of alarm, but voted against the exceptional income protection that saved more than a million and a half of the autonomous and autonomous at that time. While Social Security at the time paid up to EUR 3 780 000 in respect of this benefit to the practice of half a group of self-employed and self-employed persons, you voted against the successive validations of decrees of ERTE - please look at the Journal of Sessions and do not say that with your head - and of exceptional protection of self-employed and self-employed persons. Their concern about the situation of self-employed and self-employed is not credible, because their facts show that what they are saying in this GNP does not correspond to their actions. It is obvious that there are two ways of managing a crisis: one, which bets to leave no one behind, which makes real efforts to maintain employment and guarantee economic activity and the right to work, and the other, which bets to destroy employment and cut public services. I don't know about you, but I was autonomous during the financial crisis of the PP - VOX parent party - and then 551 000 autonomous and autonomous were lost. Between 2010 and 2017 1,824,700 jobs were destroyed, with 3,766,700 jobs stopped and stopped in Spain in 2017. They talk about the territorial distribution depending on the impact of the pandemic and it seems that using health criteria does not seem to them to be the most effective. See if health criteria were used that the autonomous community that received the most money - 2110 000 euros - was precisely the Community of Madrid. However, the management of the Community of Madrid was by no means an adequate management, and now communities such as Valencia are in a situation of greater recovery. In addition to the 16 billion, 13 500 out of 2021 and 7 billion for direct aid must be added. All this makes a total of 36.5 billion injected into the autonomous communities in the form of a transfer, which may not be enough, but if it had depended on you it would be nothing, because you have consistently voted against all this aid. [[Applauds]] And it should also be noted that all the criticism about the territorial division you do on the exhibition side and forget on the operative side. The effects of a GNP are laid down in the operative part. If you don't put anything on, maybe you were talking about other things. I am not going to go into the time I have left, because it does not give me time, to talk about other issues, such as the activities of the CNAE, but you should know, that you belong to the proposing group and that you have been defending in this forum, that this - that you did have some problems, and we can talk, among the examples you have put, about the fairers, that you do not have a CNAE code of your own - has been corrected in the following regulations and has remained in the hands of the autonomous communities to solve that situation, so it would already be. I say that for doing the exercises right when you bring them to the House. With regard to the pre-business solvency requirement for access to aid, yes, it is logical to have some criteria that lead to companies being solvents receiving such aid. They're inconcrete. In fact, they don't say where or how they're going to get that €7 billion out of direct aid. Some ideas in the time I have left: Are you going to reduce the debt? Are you going to reduce tax revenues through a tax cut? Are they going to reduce social security contributions, such as pensions, or are we perhaps surprised by a tax reform proposal that increases the contribution of high incomes or large companies?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u69	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u70	Hey, ladies, if that's the case, here we are. You're late and you're bad. Opportunism and patriotism are not the same, even if they rhyme.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u71	Your Honor, you must finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u72	You say you're patriots, but... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u73	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I rise on behalf of my group to establish a position with regard to the non-law proposal - Mr Bel, non-law proposal - of the VOX Group on Royal Decree 5/2021 on extraordinary support measures for corporate solvency. I will give you various data: 451 are the number of days that have passed until today since the declaration of the state of alarm in our country, from the day on which millions of companies and autonomous of this country were forced to shut down their businesses; 451 days. Another fact: zero is the total direct aid to the enterprises and self-employed that they have received from this country, that they have received from the Government of the nation; zero, in 451 days. That is the numerical summary, which does not admit answer, although we can expand and quantify it. To define the incompetence of this government, I must continue with numbers. Sánchez said the government will mobilise 200 billion euros with ICO credits. Do you remember him on his first televised 'Hello President'? 451 days later it mobilised 116,398 million, just under 59% of what was expected. He said he would pull out an investment line of EUR 40 billion backed by the ICO. Do you remember? - No, no, no, The same 'Hello President', rewind -. 451 days later EUR 2620 million was granted, 6.5% of the planned amount. These are the data on the incompetence and disconnection of a Government's mechanisms with the needs of its productive sector. So clear. You live in the world of marketing and advertising; businesses and our self-employed, who are out there fighting to survive, need other kinds of answers that you are not giving them. The data makes it very clear. And not only this, as we entered the crisis with obvious economic imbalances resulting from the failure in 2018 and 2019 of fiscal consolidation, with Sánchez's goal of turning doped on the elections, our muscle during the crisis has been much lower than that of the rest of European countries. We do not say this, says the European Central Bank, which estimates Spain's resources to help families and businesses during the pandemic at 1.3% of GDP, compared to 4.1% of the European average, less than the third. For every three euros invested in Europe to help businesses and self-employed people, less than one was invested here. These are the data, which leave no doubt either of their absolute absence of will to help them. For weeks, in this same Chamber and already in budgetary procedure, we ask you most of the groups that will create specific funds to help businesses and self-employed people who were going through the worst during the crisis. We told him and put him in black on white in amendments to those budgets, but no, they had no desire to do so or to approve anything. They have dedicated themselves to designing a wonderful 2050 while 89,351 companies disappear in 2021 compared to March 2020. While you were embracing dreams, in real life companies were suffering, employees - almost a million - are still in ERTE, with an increasing risk of becoming ERE. As they design an idyllic future, in the real present the Spaniards see how they raise their taxes and make their day to day a real fiscal expoliation, subjected to unprecedented asphyxiation. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, they passed a decree of EUR 7 billion of direct aid late and bad: late for what I have explained to them, because when they reacted there had already been a brutal damage to our economy, and bad for the scope, because it limited it to 95 headings, leaving out hundreds of thousands of companies and autonomouss who have suffered the cruelty of the crisis; because of the amount, because of the 72 billion that has lost the sector, aid is approved for less than 10%; because it does not tackle nuclear problems such as distinguishing between companies that are zombies and those that are not, and because they have left the distribution of aid to the autonomous communities, creating discrimination and with an arbitrary territorial division. For this reason, the decree is not the one that was needed, and on 8 June no one has yet charged a euro for that decree, no one. Having said that, in agreement with the entire content of the GNP, we must say, Mr de VOX, that amendments to this bill are still open. That is where we have to give the battle, that is where the People's Group is going to raise the best scope of its measures: in extending the amounts, the headings; in making as much as possible reach those who need this aid; in making the distribution more fair; in not excluding entrepreneurs with viable companies and having little losses in 2019. That's where we have to work...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u75	You must finish, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u76	...and where they're going to find this group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u77	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Taibo Monelos has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. The VOX Group presents this GNP on direct aid to firms in crisis as a result of the health pandemic, but when one studies carefully the proposed part it is completely empty of content and, moreover, it is pure demagogic. It has been told by absolutely all the groups that have passed through here. So what you are proposing is - I open quotes - 'increase the funds by EUR 7 billion in direct aid' - I close quotes - and there you are, so calm, with that one proposal. But do you believe, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that this is a serious approach? Firstly, the line is EUR 11 billion, not EUR 7000. However, I am sure that if the current direct aid line is 20 billion, you will continue to say that it is insufficient, and so you will continue and continue regardless of what amount the Spanish Government set. I'm sure they're partly right. Aid goes as far as it goes and never goes as far as 100 per cent of the business losses, but bringing this matter to the plenary of this House in the terms set out, at least, is not very serious. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, our country does not expect anything at all from the extreme right, that all it wants to do is crisscross and impose its single, large Spain where half of us are left, but I am sure that the Spaniards expected more from you: that you would be able to tie your shoulder a little bit instead of anchoring yourself to 'let Spain fall, that we will already lift it up'. A little bit of shrugging, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You guys... [[Rumors]] Yeah, don't get nervous. You went to Brussels to talk bad about Spain. [[Applauds]] You tried to put all possible sticks on the wheels for the sole purpose of harming the Spanish Government and thus scratching a handful of devotees, even though you knew that you were acting against national interests, and then, not content with it, you did everything possible to prevent European funds from being granted to us and managed. But what will the Spaniards expect from a People's Party that is anchored in how much worse for Spain, better for you? Go back to moderation and you'll find us there. Go back to Concordia Spain, where we will understand each other. Return to constitutional and democratic Spain and there we will reach agreements, great agreements of state, because Spain needs it, the citizens want it and the country deserves it, ladies and gentlemen, the country deserves it. [[Applauds]] Finally, I have the feeling that radicalism and extremism often prevent them from realizing reality. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I believe that much of that happens to you and that is what you are dragging to the People's Party. They're negators of most of everything. They deny the pandemic, climate change, gender-based violence; they deny the efforts being made by Spanish society, the Government of Spain or the European Union as a whole. Indeed, since the beginning of March last year, with the start of the pandemic, real government decrees-laws have been adopted to respond to this pandemic, real decrees such as those of the ERTE, with which we have protected millions of workers, today still more than 700 000; aid such as the grant for the cessation of activity for the self-employed; public guarantees of the ICO, which have mobilized today more than 120 billion euros in more than one million operations with enterprises and self-employed; the Fund for business solvency aid for strategic enterprises with more than 10 billion million or the Royal Decree-Law 35, of urgent measures to support the tourism sector, hospitality or trade, finally, a 2020 full of aid and measures of the Government of Spain that have mobilized, ladies and gentlemen, 20% of our country's gross domestic product, rather than the European average, however much they try to manipulate and make up the data, the greatest effort ever made in democracy by a government of the nation. And in 2021, ladies and gentlemen, the Government follows the same line, taking measures and working to solve this difficult situation, such as Royal Decree 5, of direct aid to the sectors most affected by the pandemic, which all autonomous communities can supplement with Decree-Law 6 and the CNAE codes they consider appropriate. I know this would hurt you, too. They deny Spain's autonomy, but that, ladies and gentlemen, is one of Spain's greatest. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 11 billion. Apart from these 7000, there are 3 billion to restructure ICO's debts and an additional 1 billion to capitalise on companies. And, to all this - yes, do not say no, Your Honor - in 2021 the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is added, which is an ambitious country project, the most ambitious in our history, to which I invite you to join and, of course, with it, to help your country, where the autonomous communities will end up receiving a total of 37.5 billion euros. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This year won't be easy, it's not being easy. We know, it's still very complicated, but news like these days, with the greatest reduction in unemployment data in our historical series, invite us to continue in the same line that we are working on and call us all with commitment to citizens, workers and businesses. And today they have the opportunity to prove, in front of the 'it's only left VOX' - that this goes to its side of the bench, it doesn't go to this one - that it already remains VOX, but alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u79	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u80	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the measures that the Government of Spain intends to promote to facilitate access to housing for young people. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out in the question that gives rise to this motion, the Spanish young people are one of the groups most affected by the economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19, and we must act urgently to ensure that this crisis does not further deepen the problems that our young people, ladies and gentlemen, have with us, problems which, if we do not solve, will become structural problems. The young people, as I have already recalled, during their formative phase suffer the consequences of forty years of reforms and educational counter-reforms, of forty years seeing how education has been used by the Socialist Party and the People's Party as a political weapon and not as a matter of state. These consequences are suffered by young people who have been the victims of school failure, but also those who have completed their compulsory studies, who have arrived and completed their vocational training, their university training. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that these people put all their efforts into being able to form themselves, enter the labour market and bring their talent to our society within their field, and we have turned our backs on them. These people, when they finish their training, as I have explained, find a labour market that does not have them, with huge barriers. The distance that separates the classrooms from the companies was and remains too great and, in the end, when these people get a job they get it in absolute precariousness. And we tell them, moreover, to persevere, which is theirs, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not theirs; what is theirs is to bring their talent, their will, their energy and, moreover, it is not theirs to endure precarious wages that prevent them from emancipating. When young people enter the labour market they cannot even leave their parents' home, they cannot become independent and, in the end, this results in a fall in birth, which comes later and later, with the risks that this poses to both mothers and babies who will be born. With this motion we want to focus on the problems young people have in accessing housing. I am just going to give you one thing: 85% of the young people's salary is dedicated to paying rent. Therefore, from Citizens we present a series of measures to facilitate access to housing for the youngest; measures that aim to generate consensus, sensible measures, and measures that have proved their effectiveness in other countries. Because what we cannot accept is to keep our arms crossed and not give solutions to housing problems or offer solutions that have been shown to be useless, such as limiting rental prices. We propose to increase the public park of rented houses. The public policies of the administrations in our country have so far focused on building homes for sale; homes that also lost their protection regime over decades, so that the State lost its assets and its fundamental tool to cool the market in areas with high prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is at the forefront of public rental housing throughout Europe. This tool is useful, because in addition in the European countries in which it has been launched it has made clear its success. We also propose that mechanisms for public-private collaboration be improved. We must improve these mechanisms between public administrations and owners to create an affordable housing park, which guarantees access to housing for those thousands of people in Spain who do not have the resources to access rental prices. This situation is particularly prevalent in cities such as Madrid, Barcelona or San Sebastián, where high demand and supply shortages have been driving prices up to the crisis of the COVID for years. We also propose a number of measures for the Government to include them in the new housing law. Although the adoption of a new housing bill is one of the measures that are agreed between the Socialist and United Party We can invest Pedro Sánchez, it is obvious that both parties maintain deep discrepancies about what is the regulation of rental prices. We believe that this issue should not obscure a serious and in-depth debate on how to ensure access to housing for the young population. Therefore, our proposals go through this project, for example, because all rental payments are made by traceable means, in order to end the submerged economy and improve the protection of both tenants and tenants. We also aim to increase transparency in rental prices, allowing tenants to first-hand know the economic burdens that landlords bear on the floor; which in the medium term should ensure a more symmetrical relationship between the parties. We also propose to end the bail that tenants give when signing the lease. This payment often represents a barrier to access to housing for those who also have more economic difficulties. At the same time, we want to establish compulsory insurance for rented flats with the aim of increasing the protection of tenants, ensuring and providing this security to tenants themselves. What we cannot do, ladies and gentlemen, is turn our backs on generations who have given us effort, dedication, work, for nothing. We have to tell the young people of Spain that their efforts, their work, their energy and above all their hopes are a priority for us. Young people can count on Citizens because we also believe that the hope of the young people of 2021 will be the strength of tomorrow's Spain. I therefore hope that a motion to improve one of the structural problems that we have in our country, namely access to housing, access to housing especially for young people, will be supported by this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u82	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, access to housing is a major problem in Spain, but not since the COVID, it has been an endemic evil for too many years now, and it is that the People's Party and the Socialists in its successive governments have not undertaken a housing policy that provides solutions. If we add that the unemployment rate of our young people stands at 37%, 20 percentage points above the European average, it turns out that they are the most affected in this matter, without undermining the number of families and older people struggling to access affordable housing on their income. In VOX we have been denouncing in this rostrum and in all the commissions the lack of social rental housing in Spain. We lack two and a half million social housing units to put ourselves on the EU average. [[Applauds]] In 2018, Minister Ábalos announced the construction of 20,000 housing units for social rent, of which today only 16% are in execution, in the rest they have not started with the land movement. And now it sends more and raises this figure to 100,000 homes, and that is how the Government of Bubble and Propaganda works. Citizens bring us a motion to speed up young people's access to housing. Curious that we were not supported by the GNP that we presented and discussed three weeks ago. [[Applauds]] The title of the motion is wonderful: Adoption of measures to facilitate access to housing for young people and the measures envisaged by the Government of Spain in the field of housing. But let's get to the bottom of the motion. First, they urge AIReF, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, to carry out an evaluation of the housing programme of the autonomous communities. The AIReF has to evaluate public policies. AIReF cannot be urged; the more independent and remote from the Government, the better. If so, the Government will have to urge the Autonomous Communities to carry out such an assessment. Our non-law proposal, which they did not support three weeks ago - do you remember, Lords of Citizens?-, reflects the incentives and bonuses for owners who add their homes to the rental park at a discounted price. Very well, but then, on the other hand, in a row, they penalize those who do not. Then please leave the owners free. [[Applauds]] They propose a system of credits by the State. Really? Are you really going to be the gentlemen of Citizens who bring the public bank of Podemos to this Congress? They're trying to force a non-payment insurance. Obliging, what a hateful and anti-liberal word! They propose to eliminate bail. Let's see, the bonds are used to deal with the payment of the wrecks that go beyond the wear and tear of the use of the house, and on many occasions it is not enough to deal with these repairs. And if not, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I place you to see how some ruined floors are left and the economic and personal damage that it entails to families, and it is not a smaller number. Whether or not public housing, the administrations are paid with Spanish tax money, and the Spanish tax money is sacred. [[Applauds]] Therefore, these homes have to be managed and cared for equally or better, if any, than those of private owners. I wonder if Mr. Bal has read this motion, because I have had to check several times whether it came from Citizens. I don't know if they've resorted to a Podemos advisor to draft their motion. Ladies and gentlemen, lack of access to housing is a major problem in our society, and more acutely for our young people. Stop short-term policies. This does deserve a state pact and not the prospect pact against the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u84	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u85	A state pact to reach the two and a half million homes we need to reach the European average alone. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u86	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to place ourselves all on the board of play in a legislature where the government is more likely to govern with its famous formula of playing with fear, rejection or hope of people than to solve our real problems. Having the opportunity to discuss issues that affect my generation is an opportunity and I hope that the Members of this House will take advantage of and choose the side of the board on which they are going to be placed, together with the young people and for our future, betting on serious measures to offer real solutions, or turning their backs by approving ridiculous initiatives from the responsible ministry such as the already famous yesterday Plan Ábalos for the bike and its 5 million euros for the whole of Spain. I like to always remember that young people, we come from wherever we come from, think what we think or believe in what we create, we always have the same problems. The smaller ones hold on their shoulders the heavy burden of the ideological education system and that in the last imposed reform has liquidated any prize to the effort; the adolescents wonder what path to follow, whether to study or work, and what choice will guarantee them a dignified life; the university students and students of vocational training, in a work environment between scholarship and scholarship, precarious contract after precarious contract, want to survive without resorting to the familial faucet; the young workers resist under the threat of ERW and ERW, and the young people without work, who are leaders of the eurozone, trying to survive. Know that all young people try to find out how our elders did it, how they did it, ladies and gentlemen, all of you to create a family and a home, and I say all of you because only 14 of the 350 Members are under the age of 30. And I ask with all my heart, because we don't fall in love later and we don't have the oldest children in Spain at the age of 31, nor did we become independent after the thirtieth in Spain with 32 for comfort, is that we have no other; and if nothing changes, this will also be the reality of our children. Citizens today bring a motion that for the Popular Group addresses one of the key problems in the lives of millions of Spanish youth, which is access to housing. We have already tabled an amendment to the text - which we hope will be accepted - which I will explain why it is important for all young people to know what we are proposing from the People's Party. The proposed text brings generalist measures to a very specific problem that avoids focusing on young people. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party wanted to make this clear. Firstly and in a complementary manner to the future State Housing Plan 2022-2025, urge AIReF to assess the tax incentives provided for in article 23 of Law 35/2006 to study their effectiveness, but specifically with regard to young people's access to housing. Also, include the budgetary resources necessary for the autonomous communities themselves to promote a programme of housing provision specifically for young people and to design a programme of loans linked to the rehabilitation of rented housing, but also specifically for young people and, as a fundamental aspect, to use the European funds of the Transformation, Recovery and Resilience Plan to establish a system of guarantees with State guarantee to promote mortgage credits for young people in the purchase of their first home. Secondly, we propose not to wait for the announced, but never seen, government housing bill - presumably pro-okupa, probably unconstitutional and zero focused on young people - but to amend directly the Urban Ley of Ley of Urban Ley to take the measures proposed by Citizens that, with nuances, seem reasonable to us. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has been fighting for these causes for a long time through various initiatives that we have been presenting. For example, the establishment of guarantees to cover the entry into the first house, postponement or reduction of VAT on the purchase of the first house, to arrange soft loans for young people with banking entities, to enhance young savings for the purchase of housing and tax subsidies, to establish tax incentives for the rental of young housing or to modify the inheritance and donation tax if the residential property is received by a young person. In short, it is a short-lived initiative, but all it is to try to tackle this problem so that young people can freely decide when to leave the family nest will always be welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u87	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u88	Thank you, President. Citizens bring us today a motion on housing and young people and we find it a very appropriate topic to talk about, but in the explanatory statement they allude to two arguments that we wanted to comment on in the beginning. First of all, they oppose price control of rents because they strain markets, they say. On June 4, an article in context compared the effects of the rental regulation law before and after the entry into force of the law to see if it was disincentived that the owners rented more flats or if there was a catastrophe, as announced by some neoliberal voices. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the tense market story and the story that if rents are regulated they are not going to be rented enough, is not true. The other element that you... [[Rumors]] Could you please keep quiet a little bit? Thank you. I see you don't care much about renting young people, but I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u89	Let me do it myself, if you don't mind. If you ask me, I'll tell the rest of the Members. I'm begging for silence in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u90	Thank you, President. The second argument you make at the beginning of the motion is that you set an example of the public policy of the Autonomous Community of Madrid. In fact, they're talking about stopping the owners. I do not know if you are referring, for example, to the illegal sale of official protective housing in 2018, which was revoked by a court in February of the same year. We do not know what you are referring to with this example of the Madrid Community, but what is clear is that this motion is neither in favour of young women nor in favour of small-scale owners. You are based on the neoliberal fiction that the market is regulated alone, the famous invisible hand. The story says that if no one does anything, the resources will be distributed fairly by the art of magic, by a kind of collective common sense of those who have more. This is a lie, and you know it. In fact, what happens is that, since there is no neutrality, if there is no external intervention of the institutions, the distribution of resources is unequal and always win the usual ones, which are not the small owners, are the big investment funds. And there is no cosmic force that orders the market fairly, but the market, when it is not ordered, is for the strongest. Who are the strongest? The abusers, in the case of housing we are talking about investment funds. Today, also in the press, in the same context, there was an article that said that only three investment funds in six transactions buy more than four hundred thousand homes from banks. And then, in addition, they go up the rents abusively to earn as much money as possible in the shortest possible time and, in addition, they use extortion techniques to expel neighbors and neighbors from their homes when they don't pay enough rent. Even in Catalonia we have seen how these same investment funds hire companies run by extreme right-wing people to throw people out of their homes. On the other side of photography, on the other side of the casino economy that you want from the housing, from this cosmic market, is the most vulnerable people, are the evictions, for example. Look, in Catalonia, 75% of evictions are already for rent and in the first quarter of 2021 alone there have been more than 2400 evictions. If we follow the geography of the Catalan countries, in the Valencia Country there were more than 4500 evictions in 2020 and in the islands there was an 80% increase in default and, of course, the following year more than 37% in evictions. This is a situation that we characterize as dystopic: a state in which people are thrown out of their homes because they cannot pay rent, so that some investment funds can earn even more money. And there are Members who speak of the invisible hand of the market and of not regulating the housing market so that resources are allocated fairly! Look, today the Catalan Parliament has re-registered part of Law 24/2015, which was laid down by the Constitutional Court and which guarantees access to housing. And it is that, before a high judiciary that legislates in favour of investment funds, before a Parliament that also votes in this regard and before a Spanish government that is neither in the housing sector nor expected, we prefer to talk about sovereignty and self-determination, because for us it does not go by flags, it will guarantee public policies for our people, it will build a country where no one is left homeless. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u91	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Giménez, you made a contextualization at the beginning of your speech with which the Basque sovereignist left - I sincerely say - could and fully agrees. I don't know if this gives you a problem if you go to Columbus on Sunday, but I had to say it. You have said that after forty years of reforms and educational counter-reforms the situation of youth is worse; you have said that the labour market expels them or precariouss them; you have said that meritocracy as such has become a trap because in the background they were only wanted as cheap labour and not as those skilled people who would have to take the country forward. And who will not agree with that, if that is the root cause of the precariousness of the young? The problem is that your initiative, once it lands, does so in a way that is not abstract, but very concrete and I would say that very much, very much on the part of always, on the same part on which you are escorted. You have given data that are true. You have spoken of the percentage which means, on a salary, what young people allocate to housing. It's 85%, I've seen 60%, but either of the two, even the lowest, is already full of worry. Allow me to give you more information so that you understand why I tell you that your initiative, after a correct contextualization, is out of focus. We could add more data, we could say that 26% of those under the age of 29 - as you said on your own initiative - have no property, compared to 54% who had it fifteen years ago. We could be more dramatic, we could talk about more than 64% of young people between the ages of 25 and 29 - this increases much more if we take 20 to 29 years - live with their parents. Fifteen years ago, the range or percentage of people between 25 and 29 years living with their parents was 50%, now it is 64%. Like I said, if we take the 20 to 29-year-old strip, it's even worse. You do not say so, but it should be noted that in the Spanish State there were 3.4 million empty houses in 2011, according to the latest study by the INE, the National Institute of Statistics. It seems that in 2021 there will be no possibility of collation because the Government has decided that this count, this calculation of empty housing, will not appear. But in any case, as I say, there were 3.4 million homes in 2011. There were 3,100 000 dwellings in 2001. There is therefore nothing to indicate that the progression does not lead to around 3 600 000 or 3 700 000. We could also talk about 40% youth unemployment, we could talk about 32% of young people who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and why not? We would have to talk about the 10,971 evictions that took place in the first quarter of 2021, when this Government said that no one was going to be evicted, many of them for unpaid mortgages. We would also have to talk about the comparison that could be made of a topic that seems to be very concerned about the right-wing bench, because they have brought it on many occasions, such as occupations. If there were 10,791 evictions, there were 791 occupations. That is the real picture of the jungle of the real estate market that young people and young people have to endure, a youth who lives through youth unemployment, job insecurity, lack of prospects and the delay in the age of emancipation, which puts them at the tail of the European Union, and the treatment they propose is, on the one hand, to continue to give resources to the owners - that is, the money of all we are going to give to the owners rather than to those who really need it, who seem to be those who cannot opt for housing - and, on the other hand, we are going to guarantee more market freedom. But what has happened in these forty years - which is what the Basque independenceist sovereignist left calls the transition with which it wants to end - that was not market freedom? If Adam Smith's apostles have done what they wanted!, even though to this day trusting in the theory of the invisible hand is more scientific than the ministry of the Most Holy Trinity. But what's happened? Has there been a socialist experience in this country? Has there been public intervention by the State and planning on the control of housing policy? Or the other way around? There has been a real estate market that has created a real estate bubble that has led to inflation of prices and has driven out the peripheries and the return to the homes of the parents of young people because, moreover, they have no wages with which to sustain access to housing. Given this reality, what you are asking us is aid for the owners and, apart from aid for the owners - and this is already a more hardcore version of the right - what we are asking ourselves is to liberalise the remaining soil and qualify it. That is to say, those who made money before hitting urban balls will win it again now with everyone's money. That's the magic answer of the right to fix these problems. I'm finishing up. Rather, the millennials or the nini were spoken of as those who neither studied nor worked. I believe that they are the ones who do not have decent work, have no decent life and do not have an autonomous life plan. You have to listen to them, and they say things like: how am I going to think of a relationship if I don't have money for a mattress, if I've assumed I won't have a retirement or a flat. There is a certainty, that our children will live worse than us and the myth that has fallen, that the social elevator is not such, but it is a social descendant. Faced with this, it is logical that we bet on greater public intervention, because everyone's money is for those who need it and not for those who speculate on a good that would have to be accessible to all. In the end, if not, young people will have to say what Eskorbuto said forty years ago: 'Where is the future that our old people forged?', because you are very clear that if this is not a country for young people, sooner or later, and I encourage you, they will reveal themselves and neither will it be a country for old people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u93	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Bariandaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main pillars of the rule of law is undoubtedly the one set out in Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which is, on the one hand, the right to decent and adequate housing and, on the other hand, the placement of the public authorities in order to give effect to that right, and, on the other hand, what it does is to point out as instruments to channel this policy the regulation of land and the participation of the community in the capitals generated by urban actions. The realization of this right is, in principle, attributed to the autonomous communities under article 148.1.3 (a) of the Constitution, in what they call the block of constitutionality, when it states that the autonomous communities are competent in the matter of 'territory planning, urban planning and housing', which gives them a decisive role in the realization of policies aimed not only at the satisfaction of the right to housing, but also at the social policy of avoiding the misery or consequences of the absence of such decent and adequate housing. It is also true that the State, through transversal titles, especially Article 149.1.3.a, has not hesitated to intervene in this matter, affecting in many cases the exercise of autonomous powers which it has emptied on many occasions of content. Without prejudice to the very unbiased rulings of the Constitutional Court, we believe that the exercise of these policies by the State can never justify excesses involving the exhaustion of autonomous powers in this matter. Well, the Citizens' motion sums up this philosophy with which we will never be able to agree. Thus, if we analyze its content, it turns out that it urges the State, through the AIReF, to make an evaluation of the housing programmes of the autonomous communities as if the control, control and evaluation of these policies could be the responsibility of the State and the AIReF, to which it is responsible only in budgetary matters. It completely omits the powers of the outside bodies over concerted taxes - IRPF and companies - and also aims to promote their evaluation and control. It seeks to establish, in place of the autonomous communities, the destination of fiscal measures in the area of housing and also of housing managed by the public administrations, the percentages of which it proposes to establish, and even that of the credits available to the autonomous communities for their housing policies. And to top it off, that proposal for a legislative pre-determination through the state housing bill of public housing policies; that is, the corseting of the autonomous communities. [[The lady]] Just by commenting on the case of Euskadi and Navarra, in Euskadi there is a housing law, the 3/2015, and a program, Bizigune, and in Navarra the Ten-Year Plan 2018-2028, in whose implementation are the consequences, the concretions of housing policies. One, housing is recognized as a subjective right. Two, a preferred option is made for rental housing. In fact, and by agreement of the Basque Parliament, only public rental housing is promoted. Three, there are specific housing programmes for young people but linked to the recognition or satisfaction of subjective law, not character or age. They also exist in relation to disadvantaged groups, for which a new type of accommodation is regulated, called endowments, intended for the temporary accommodation of persons with difficulty in accessing the legal occupation of a dwelling. In addition, it is allowed to establish a fee for empty housing and it must be the municipalities who will have to check the existence of this empty housing but also that of charging the fee, which - today the news appears - has been fixed at about 2 euros per square metre of empty and unoccupied housing. There are subsidies for the rehabilitation of empty housing that will be tax deductible. And with regard to bail, a register of leases has been established as bonds are deposited in housing delegations, allowing for the collection of reliable information from the rental market. Well, with this I simply intend to expose a specific case, that of Euskadi, and I imagine that other autonomous communities have their own specific cases, their own housing policies, because that is the question: the autonomous communities are major citizens and competent to exercise their own housing policies without anyone, nor the State, being legitimized to question no longer the validity or legitimacy of their policies, but the possibility that they may exercise their powers in accordance with their own vocation and interests. Mrs Giménez, implement your policies wherever you are governing, but what you cannot do is try to mediatize the competences of the autonomous communities through state legislation. Stop pretending to uniform where even the Constitution understands that policies must be tailored to the reality of each territory and therefore respect those of the autonomous communities in the area of housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u95	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u96	Thank you very much, President. It surprises VOX's virulence with this proposal of Citizens and sometimes contrasts with the condescension of other proposals of the People's Party. There is a study these days in which we debate whether our young people live better or worse than their parents and there are some particularly interesting data in a study that has been published. First, one that we all have in mind is that young people emancipate later. And second, and more importantly, young people now need seven years' pay to pay for a home, when their parents needed three years before. In housing it is evident that things have worsened and the pandemic has accelerated this process of fracture, inequality or generational or social gap and has brought forth feelings of helplessness, humiliation and resentment that sometimes want to take advantage of the extreme right. It is now indefatigable to undertake an ambitious policy and funding effort in the area of public housing, because in many cases we are late for other countries. Now, once neoliberal policies have proved useless, we have an opportunity to push forward an ambitious agenda that has to go through two things: buying public land to build public and rental housing. Without housing there is no future; without housing there is no birth, there are no children. I am therefore surprised by the statements made by the Banco de España this morning saying that the interprofessional minimum wage has prevented 100,000 jobs from being created. If the interprofessional minimum wage is not raised, how long will young people have to be? If it costs them now seven years, what will they have to be, fifteen, twenty?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u97	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u98	Your whole life to pay? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u100	Thank you, President. Mrs Giménez, unlike the previous motion for an inquiry, at least you, on a matter of concern, put on the table some concrete proposals for a solution. With some we disagree and others we understand that they can be developed. Indeed, in relation to housing policy and specifically for public rental housing, we know two things that cannot be done: do nothing and continue to do what has been done in recent years. This is by no means a solution. I have already said that we are not going to oppose this initiative, but we are looking forward to whether or not some of the amendments that have been tabled are being negotiated, because the truth is that some of these amendments are somewhat peculiar. In VOX, you are hurt by the possibility of insurance, but you understand that a bond is strictly necessary when one can replace the other. The truth is that the concept of VOX of liberalism is more like the Far West, and anything other than the Far West is no longer liberal. It's a rather strange and peculiar concept. In any case, regardless of whether or not this questionable motion is successful, which is very important for citizens, but it is not really of great parliamentary significance either, the Government must act, and it must do so now. And not because the groups that were part of the Government's constitution had agreed at the time, but because it is a necessity and we must be aware that, in the area of housing policy, solutions do not come from today to tomorrow, they are not implemented from today to next year. Many of these policies have an important maturity period. In any case - I do not see it now in the room and therefore I know it is wrong to name it - Mrs Vehí would say that in order to see the analysis of certain housing regulations or policies in Catalonia we should take a reasonable time and not contaminated by the effects of a pandemic crisis, which will surely also have some effect on the data she has given here.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u101	Mr. Bel, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u102	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u104	While youth unemployment reaches 37% in the Catalan countries, in addition to the difficult access of young people to unemployment benefit due to their lack of work experience, they are required impossible conditions to sign a rental contract, such as, for example, stability in employment over a period of years or abusive bonds. Do they want to allow young people access to housing? They demand that the State finance social rental housing for children under the age of thirty-five and prevent evictions without guaranteeing an alternative social rental proposal. In fact - the CUP commented -, even today Esquerra, Comuns, the CUP and Junts per Catalunya have recorded in the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal of law that advances in the same line. Ladies and gentlemen, when this comes to the vote, what are you going to do? Are they going to approve it? And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? While poverty among young workers exceeds 26% in the Spanish state, according to Incasòl, rent prices in Catalonia rose by an average of 300 euros between 2014 and 2019. Do they want to allow young people access to housing? Then, regulate the rental prices. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia it works, and to the facts we refer. The annual rental price has fallen by 4.8% in regulated municipalities, while it has increased by 1.2% in non-regulated municipalities. Moreover, in municipalities with regulated prices not only have contracts not decreased, but, above all, they have increased. Ladies and gentlemen, your lies are gradually unravelling with facts. By the way, the question here is how many excuses and lies the PSOE will need to continue to prevent the regulation of rental prices. While only two out of ten young people under the age of thirty-four have been emancipated and cannot live alone because they would account for 120% of their wages, the number of homeowners is increasingly reduced and empty housing has increased to the point that the Spanish State has 30 % of empty housing throughout the European Union. Do they want to allow young people access to housing? Work, then, to force banks to return the thousands of empty floors paid for by all citizens after the 2008 crisis to rescue the bank. If so progressive he claims to be the government, they will prove that now, unlike the last crisis, they will rescue the citizens by returning those floors of the Sareb that belong to him. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, today you have done the thorough exercise of simulating that you care about access to the housing of citizens without touching any of the benefits and privileges of companies or banks that play every day with the need of people. If for you housing is a market good, for us it is an inherent right to the human condition, and we will defend it to the last consequences. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about young people's homes and I think that we should talk about precariousness, precariousness not simply because we have an unstable contract, but as the way of life that is offered to the popular sectors and, in particular, to the young people of our country. The truth is that I feel very ashamed today because the Banco de España has again made its own: it does not tell us about banks, it does not tell us about the problems that financial institutions have, it has not done so all this time, it did not do so when the 2008 crisis came, but it turns out that it is very concerned because the minimum wage in our country, which does not reach 1000 euros, says it destroys employment. We must have very little shame, very little shame, to say this in a country like ours. What housing are we talking about, when people with the minimum wage charge less than a thousand 'pavos'? Really? And the governor of the Banco de España is allowed to say it in a report, and point it out, and write it down, and sign it. And you're not ashamed of yourself? The governor of the Banco de España would have to run it into caps for business, because it is businessable that the Banco de España allows itself the luxury of attacking the interests of the most vulnerable people in our country with wild manifestations like those that it has done in that report It businessable. [[Applauds]] Look, you can't blow and sip. Land liberalization cannot be called for and, at the same time, it cannot be said that it is in favour of the public housing park for rent. It's an insult, it's a joke, it's not taking people seriously. Talking about housing and talking about young people is talking about regulating rents, it's adapting rental prices to people's wages, it's understanding that it's the interest of society as a whole that people can access that right. Here comes a bill that tells us that the state has to solve the bank paper. It turns out that after the 2008 crisis, the Basel Accords said that lending 100 per cent of the value of housing was barbaric, firstly, because of the over-indebtedness and the problems it created for people and, secondly, because it was a systemic problem for the financial system, that it had been barbaric and could not be repeated again. Solution? Ana Patricia Botín has already given it to us: that between the state and that they approve of that 20% that they lack. We're in barbarity. Are we going to play the bubble again? Are we gonna go back to playing inflating prices? Are we going to give people back to the debt overhang? Really? Have we seen what the structure of the labour market is? Have we seen the process of wage devaluation that has taken place at this time? I think it's about going in the opposite direction. It is a joke, indeed, that the Citizen Group is telling us that they are in favour of social housing policy, when they are in the City Hall of Madrid and what they are proposing is the protection of the right to housing for those who charge between 32,200 and 88,200 euros. It's a joke, isn't it? Is that what we're talking about? I think we should start talking about this seriously. I want to talk to our government partners. I think he's playing. And I think it's time to step on the accelerator. And I think it's time to step on the accelerator in favor of the popular sectors. And if vulture funds don't like it, fuck it, but it's time to defend the interests of the popular sectors. It is time to put the interests of the social majorities above Cerberus, above Lone Star, above Blackstone. We need, as soon as possible, price regulation and the determined drive of the public housing park for rent, and in this we believe that all public administrations must cooperate. We support the Catalan law in defense of the regulation of rental prices to prevent abusive prices and propose that the state law be umbrella against the initiatives of speculators, led by lawyer Rivera, who represents the People's Party in this resource of unconstitutionality against the interests of the popular sectors and in defense of the vulture funds. We and we believe that the housing law must be an umbrella to defend the right to housing and self-government of the different autonomous communities, and we urge the parliamentary democratic majority that supports this Government to push with force and determination to hold hands once and for all with speculators in this country. One cannot continue to think that speculators and our people can be protected at the same time. That the right, the extreme right or the mid-pensioners defend the interests of the speculators, but we conform once and for all a democratic majority with determination enough to lay hands once and for all on those who play with the lives of our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u107	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u108	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. In a House where too many times there is talk of matters which have nothing to do with the concerns of the citizenry, it is to be thanked, Mrs Giménez, that you have brought to debate a motion resulting from an inquiry into a matter of vital importance, such as access to housing for young people in Spain, an issue which has always been of concern and concern to socialists. Revitalizing housing policies is a necessity and a priority for this Government. Mrs Giménez, it is necessary to make an analysis of the housing policies that have been carried out in the past and in the present recent by the right-wing governments, of which you are partners in many territories. It is therefore essential to remember where we are going from. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Aznar Soil Law, which favoured urban speculation to the detriment of the working classes, followed by the absence of housing policies by the right-wing governments, with housing cuts of up to 60% and the abandonment of the public housing park, until the sale of social housing to speculative investment funds, this type of housing policies, promoted by the right-wing governments, has led our country to a widespread rise in housing prices, to the unprotection of tenants, to the explosion of the housing bubble, to the breakdown of the public housing park and to the biggest wave of evictions that Spanish society has experienced. And in the absence of housing policies of the past, what has this Government done to reverse this situation? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, has approved the General Budgets of the State which allocate the highest investment in housing in all history, in particular with an increase of 373 %. [[applause]] And it has also launched the Affordable Rent Housing Plan with an increase of 100,000 new homes for social rent and rent subsidies for young people of up to 900 euros per month. Efforts are also being made to incorporate tax reduction measures for rent for young people up to 70%, who will benefit young people between 18 and 35 years of age. And we have also extended the aid of 10,800 euros to young people for the purchase of housing in the cores of less than 5000 inhabitants and we have improved the stability of the tenant by extending the period of forced extension from three to five years. Not to mention the innumerable protective measures adopted in the face of the pandemic, because the aim of this Government is to facilitate access to decent and affordable housing, especially for young people. And I must point out that the Government is already working on some of the measures you propose in your motion, such as point 3. I would like to say that the implementation of EUR 1 billion of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism for the promotion of housing for social rental is already planned. Also in relation to item 1, it is planned to provide the State Housing Plan with 1443 million, of which a substantial part will be intended to mobilize private housing for affordable rent. Mrs Giménez, allow me to tell you that we do not share the aim of your motion, because its purpose is to benefit real estate owners and large housing owners, and it does not combat the problem of speculation or evictions or the need for housing or, ultimately, the structural difficulties in accessing housing faced by young people, and I am not referring to young people from well-off families, but to working-class young people, who, let me tell you, are the vast majority of young people in this country. In short, the State has an obligation to offer a vital project to youth, resulting in a more sustainable planet and a country in which they can access stable employment and decent and adequate housing. And for all that, Your Honor, we will vote no to your proposal and I assure you that we will continue to work for this to be the legislature...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u109	Mrs. Bravo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u110	... of the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u112	We are in negotiations with the People's Party and the amendments tabled by the VOX Group are not going to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u113	All right. Thank you very much. As soon as they have it, we thank them for sending it to us. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the state of our foreign policy. [[File number 173/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u114	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the state of our foreign policy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish to begin by showing my solidarity and appreciation with all the personnel of the Spanish foreign service, who have been on the front line in these times of coronavirus ; exemplary officials who have endured the indifference and insensitivity of the political leader of the ministry on their vaccination needs. [[applause]] It is a pity that, until the Minister has done so, they have not been given a solution to their right to health; they have left the Spaniards behind in this too. Ladies and gentlemen, on 26 May Mrs Laya tried to justify in this rostrum the shortcomings, the clumsiness, the mistakes and the disagreements of her foreign policy with a whole is going well and what does not work is the opposition's fault. In these two weeks everything that could get worse has done it. It's happened with the United States. President Biden continues to contact and close interviews with leaders on his European tour; unfortunately for Spain Mr Sánchez, as happened to Colonel García Márquez, has no one to write to him or call him or receive him. In addition, the threats of new tariffs against Spanish products have been extended to textiles and footwear; this is something we are concerned about and we need to know who is negotiating, what is negotiating and where is doing so. Let me help you, on many occasions we have reached consensus that has been important to our country; this has happened on issues relating to the European Union, on international missions such as Afghanistan and also on those that are taking place today in Africa. By the way, your Minister of Defence should appear immediately to report on the military commitments announced by Mr Sánchez in Libya. State policy must not only be programmed, it must first and foremost be exercised. Madam President, what has happened in the relationship with Morocco has been particularly serious. In recent days the dialectic escalation has increased. Pedro Sánchez himself on 31 May referred as an attack on the border to what happened days ago in the fence of Ceuta. This week we have known that Spain has been vetoed in Operation Pass of the Strait. The date of the high-level meeting is still not set, the Moroccan ambassador is still in her country and the commercial border with Melilla has been closed since 2018. The Ghali case has not been explained the entry nor has the exit been explained. All, moreover, with planes that were coming and going, without to date no one has given a reasonable and credible version; nor why was it attempted to hide their presence from Spanish public opinion and our Moroccan neighbours; one thing is discretion and another is deception. We also know from the news that there is no direct contact between the Moroccan and Spanish foreign ministries and that Mrs Laya is using the French minister as an intermediary. The situation is serious and this House should not remain absent. Always bear in mind that this group makes these assessments from institutional loyalty. I remind you that the President of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, has already shown the support of this party to the Government in all matters relating to the defence of national sovereignty and the Spanish borders. Recovering a neighbourhood policy, as we demand in the motion, is not an exaggeration, it is a common sense. They are in a hole and this initiative encourages them to stop digging, take advantage of the hand that we hold them. Since the beginning of the transition, there have been great foreign ministers such as Marcelino Oreja, Francisco Fernández Ordóñez, José Pedro Pérez-Llorca and Josep Piqué. The current title follows the wake of the Morán and Moratinos, in this way chaining errors whose links are Bolivia, Venezuela, Cuba and Gibraltar, in the latter case it has been done away with simply three centuries of foreign policy with regard to the contentious, not to mention a completely undrawn Ibero-American Summit, which is our main international asset, or the chaos in the internal management of the ministry with about thirty undesignated ambassadors, or the silence with regard to the persecution of the democratic opposition in Nicaragua; new evidence of the lack of criterion of the one who occupies the Palace of Santa Cruz. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, it makes no sense for you to want to attach yourselves to an amortised minister who is in the first post of departure in the planned ministerial crisis. Make time, take advantage of this extended hand that is gathered in the motion to reconduce a foreign policy that has broken not a few consensuses and whose road map is indescribable. The balance with Algeria, Morocco and the Saharawi people is not simple, but the crisis with the three at the same time is unheard of. To avoid it it was not necessary to have the diplomatic capacities of the Count of Gondomar, it was enough with a little humility to let himself be advised. Foreign policy is also a reflection of domestic policy. That is why our European partners are looking at us today astonishment and disbelief. It is difficult to be influential or defend our interests in a coherent way when a government minister compares the 1-O coups with Nelson Mandela, forgetting that it was his comrades of the PSC, those of the PP of Catalonia and those of Citizens who suffered the apartheid of the days of September 6 and 7 when the rights of the opposition were undermined. [[Applauds]] What message is being sent today to our European partners, who supported us at all times during the coup challenge? What do you think our partners think when they hear Mr. Sánchez himself talk about the agreement of pardons and label justice in our Supreme Court as vindictive? Retrieve the letter of legality and stop cheating on Junqueras' letter. Do not forget that we suffered a coup because the State refused to negotiate politically the breakdown of national unity. Don't give it to an agonizing government for a breath of political oxygen. Leave that path to the precipice and regain the defense of the rule of law, which I remind you is also important for receiving the Next Generation funds. Come on over and let's go to Europe together and ask that Ceuta and Melilla have the benefits of the status that gives consideration to ultra-peripheral territories. And since they have been entangled with planes, from Delcy to Ghali, use this landing strip that we offer in the form of a motion to regain the sense of state in foreign policy. They're still in time to rectify. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party presents this motion, as a result of its urgent appeal to Minister González Laya, for the facts referred to by the diplomatic crisis with Morocco, which has resulted in the unprecedented migratory pressure experienced on 17 May in Ceuta and, to a lesser extent, in Melilla. A few weeks ago, the Moroccan Government decided to lift its control of the borders separating Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, further encouraging its own civilians to flock to the Spanish cities. This caused the capacity of the Spanish borders to be repeatedly exceeded. We still remember that civilian guard holding that child at sea because he was alone. This situation, as admitted by the Moroccan Government itself, was due to the decision of the Government of Spain to host, for humanitarian reasons, the leader of the Frente Polisario in a hospital in La Rioja for a very serious COVID-19 clinical picture. However, for the Government of Morocco, this decision was an affront to its aspirations to exercise sovereignty over Western Sahara; a claim contrary to international law, but which in recent months had obtained the support of the United States in exchange for Morocco's recognition of Israel and its establishment of diplomatic relations with the Middle East country. This fact again showed Spain's inability to respond to events like this. In its motion, the Group of the European People's Party makes a broader review of the Spanish foreign political situation, not simply in this fact. However, on reaching the proposal part, the proposals envisaged are vague generalities without any real orientation, phrases of the type: working to regain influence, defend the interests of Spain, but does not contain any concrete political orientation proposal. Others of the proposals can be somewhat more concrete, they make more sense, but they are a copy and glue of non-law proposals, of initiatives discussed in the Foreign Committee in Congress; moreover, they have not even stopped to consider the amendments that we put forward by other groups and bring them to this non-law proposal. But, let us not be fooled, this motion is a faithful reflection of the foreign policy carried out by the People's Party and the Socialist Party for most of the past forty years: lack of a real strategy that responds to Spain's interest, unrelated actions without any logical coherence and inability to adapt to the foreign policy of the twenty-first century by always clinging to empty phrases and actions of the past. Let us not be fooled, we have a Government that renounces to defend and promote the most basic fundamental rights and freedoms such as freedom of expression, equal opportunities or the right to political participation, and also renounces to do so in our brotherly continent, Latin America, where we see how, despite what we might think ten years ago, dictators tyrants are becoming stronger and gaining ground in democracy. On the other hand, we have the People's Party, whose conservative attitude comes to such an extent that it is unable to promote any kind of action or change in our foreign policy to meet the needs of the twenty-first century; in fact, it had the opportunity with this motion and has missed it. It's an empty notion, it's a motion with no content. In addition, both the Government and the People's Party have shown that they have no respect for foreign service professionals; thus, the People's Party does not even make any mention in the motion for this motion. This is mainly because the People's Party and the Socialist Party have used foreign service to appoint political ambassadors to pay party favors to the detriment of career diplomats. As a liberal party, our commitment is Spanish foreign action, which is based on three principles: the defence of freedom and equal opportunities, the promotion of open and tolerant societies and the impetus of open economies. This translates into a number of initiatives that are subject to a number of very important pillars. That is why we have tabled an amendment which, if it is not adopted, if they do not accept it, we cannot support this motion. What do we want? At the geographical level, exercising more decisive leadership in the European Union, taking advantage of the fact that we are now the fourth power of the bloc, strengthening our relationship with America. In addition, from the point of view of foreign service professionals, we want to ensure that all ambassador appointments are made on objective and transparent criteria of merit and capacity, as well as to improve their situation and the recognition and experience of the efforts of professionals working abroad. For all this, if we are not accepted by this amendment, which gives concrete measures to a quality foreign policy that Spain should already be pursuing, we cannot support this motion. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Certainly, the text of the motion is ironic because it says: state of the foreign policy of Spain. Do we really have foreign policy as a country at this time? There is one thing I do not agree with you; I have a lot of legislatures here and all the Foreign Ministers of both the PSOE and the People's Party have been impeccable. The spokespersons have had an impeccable communication in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, if there were any incidents calling us over the telephone. There has been no political colour and we have had great consensus in foreign policy, and I am referring to the European one, but also to Latin America and Africa, even on confidential issues. This minister has been a year and more disasters in a year have not been able to happen, but not only with regard to Latin America, because we had to play the role in Europe to lead the position with Venezuela, and because of those contradictions, that neutrality, those speeches, we are not. We have lost our role as interlocutors in Cuba and Latin America. We have allowed to establish the animosity against the Spaniards with a story about the conquest that is deteriorating the cultural relations and image of this country throughout Latin America and in the United States on many issues regarding the history that Spain played in Latin America. And let's not talk about Europe anymore. We're not. Once I had to intervene - I want to tell you as an anecdote - because I said the minister was like Wally. Those with kids know who Wally is, that you have to look for Wally. And where was the minister? Because I was in Canada when I had to be in London, I was in Malta as long as I had to be in Morocco, I didn't know where I was at times of major crises. I still remember, when the markets were closed by the COVID, that this Member, through German consulates, had to get Spaniards out of a certain area because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was neither there nor expected. Not in others. In Venezuela, for example, it worked very well, and in some other places. But at least we could be treated and give a response of time, of information, which certainly was not political at the time. Now we have three topics. Africa, Morocco. We denounce the issue of media with Morocco, and it has been left to be done. The subject of immigration - not just from Ceuta or the Canary Islands - was told to be by the COVID. Neither the summit was suspended by the COVID nor the non-refoulement of the Canary Islands had anything to do with the COVID. The proof is that 10,000 women of fruit are now returning to Morocco. Europe, Frontex, saying that they could not move to the peninsula, which was Europe's decision. Europe and the Commissioners denying the Government of Spain. And now, with the subject of tourism, instead of being in London to try that Balearics and the Canary Islands, before the decision of a week ago, will be excluded, because we have an incidence of 30 per 100,000 inhabitants, where was the minister? Do you know that? I don't know. And then, knowing what the Moroccan Government is like, which is diplomacy - which does not have this minister, because if you ask a minister for something to be diplomatic - at the worst time of the crisis with Morocco it is dedicated to giving interviews in newspapers, on radios and on televisions and I, who am not diplomatic or professional in the area, when I read them I said: tate, it has annoyed her even more. And what happened happened. What do you mean, this was the legal thing? There is an important problem with Morocco, which is the border with Spain, and it is an important partner in anti-terrorism policy, it is an important partner also in the Canary Islands, but we need to have diplomatic action. And let us no longer talk about the policies of excluding in foreign policy the head of State, which is an element that this country has and that must be put at the service of the country. I think your time is up, and I'm not gonna make wood from the fallen tree. As you do not ask for reprobation, I never vote for the reprobations, but I must say that it has been the longest and worst year in the history of this country in foreign policy. The only time Mrs González Laya called me on the direct phone was to insult me - the first time I hung a phone to a minister, I say it here - because he had offended me for something I had said before. The only time he called me was for that. And when I told him why he wasn't explaining to me...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u120	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u121	... He said, "You're no one to explain anything to you." Let him eat it. The worst minister. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u123	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mr. Hispan, you haven't herniated with this motion, have you? They bring us a motion that goes on the recovery of the influence and credibility of Spain abroad, and seeing it this way means that you are proud of your past, of those feats and those feats in foreign politics. Making a little memory, we can remember that war of Perejil in 2002, or that agreement of the Azores and the invasion of Iraq a year later, or what to say about the tension with Gibraltar when Mr. García-Margallo said that "recreation is over" in August 2013. But, without going only to these exploits, it is also a fact that, during the years of the Rajoy government, if in anything highlights Spain abroad it was in that it reduced the cooperation to development and, therefore, lost a certain role that it had acquired. On the other hand, we had all the embassies, even consulates, making propaganda, when not pressing, like Erdogán, with the Catalan question in all the chancelleries. A phrase that the foreign ministers often like very much, be it Mr García-Margallo, but also Mrs González Laya, is that of Spain is back. Mrs González Laya added the Spain is here to stay. But my big question is, where? Where'd they go back? Because, look, we are independentists and it is true that Spain's foreign policy is not ours, but it is also true that, as citizens of this state, as European citizens, we advocate a foreign policy of consensus, that supports multilateralism, that does not interfere, that supports dialogue for the resolution of conflicts and, of course, solidarity with States and peoples throughout the world. In these complex times, in an interconnected world in which there are different crises, such as the climate crisis, we are also in the midst of a global pandemic, and what I am surprised about your proposal is that you make no mention beyond pointing out that Mr. Brahim Ghali suffered from COVID-19. Don't you have any proposals at this time to solve a global pandemic? They focus on three axes their areas of influence or action. It is curious that the Asia-Pacific area is left, but starting with Europe, I am surprised that your greatest concern in Europe is that Spanish presidents can be elected in agencies or that these agencies are in Spain. Let's say yours isn't a Schuman plan, let's say it's Spanish nationalism. Then they tell us about the Next Generation funds, when the surprising thing is, now that transparency is coming, that last year Mrs Lastra was abhorrent to them that you were going around Europe pushing Member States to make those funds conditional on the Spanish state. It is curious that they only bring this to the European level. On America, it is true that on the United States of America they make a detailed plan of everything they request, but what about the other 192 States members of the United Nations? Don't you care? Don't you have any priorities? In the face of Latin America, let human rights be defended in what you call dictatorships. And the dictablandas: Colombia, Honduras, Brazil? They don't care. Is that your top priority for Latin America? Then they end the Mediterranean. They talk a little bit about the stick and the carrot, they ask to strengthen the police presence and restore the relationship with Morocco. What about Western Sahara? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Or do they support what Mr García-Margallo says, that the position must be reconsidered in front of Western Sahara? Is that what they support? Or what about migration? For having fences higher than those that Mr Trump put on the border with Mexico will not solve this humanitarian drama until there are legal channels for migration. I ended, Madam President, by saying that it does not take independence to see that this motion is completely empty and that it has no substantive proposal. They say the role of Spain is blurred. Either way, but it's that, besides, you paint it in black and white. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that those who cover a great deal are not too tight. Of course, this motion wants to cover too much from very broad territorial areas of foreign action, failed appointments - apparently some of them - or the distribution of European funds, etc. His motion makes statements as if nothing had changed, and there are things that have changed, for example, with regard to the United States. True, with this new administration, the United States is back, but exactly how is it back? Who do you want to be back with? How exactly will the Biden Administration be positioned? I don't think we know yet, but of course, so far, his gestures have not been friendly with Spain. If Morocco has dared to make some moves it has been because it counted on not having a bad word from the American administration, among other things, it has not taken back Trump's last-minute decision regarding the Sahara. You say: send to the Foreign Affairs Committee as a matter of urgency a plan to strengthen relations with the United States. Do you really have to look so needy? Shouldn't we wait a little bit? I mean, when they haven't even appointed an ambassador, is Spain really so needed in relations with the United States? For other things you have more dignity and more Spanish pride. I am surprised, I am surprised by this urgency from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As far as Morocco is concerned, what you are doing here is a simple critical account with the Government: things that have gone on criticizing that the Government has done them wrong. But, with regard to the other side, I do not see a single criticism at all. Does this really have to be brought here? Will the chancelleries, also in Morocco, be seeing it, should we bring the differences with regard to external relations here on such a hot and delicate issue? So, you should also ask yourself, because nothing is said in your text, is it that Spain has no responsibilities over the Sahara? Is it not Spain's responsibility to have left the Sahara and its inhabitants as it was left behind? Are there no resolutions of international law that speak of the Sahara, that do not recognize Moroccan sovereignty over the territory? Is there nothing wrong with a country that handles migration flows as it wants? Suddenly more pateras, suddenly less pateras. Is there nothing wrong with a country that moves its maritime borders unilaterally without consulting, without warning? With a regime that uses children for political purposes? He uses children for political purposes! It is a country with a poor economic state, a country that apparently wants to migrate en masse to Europe - and that is something to think about - a country that brings its citizens back to other countries, to the European Union, from farthest places, which is going to cost them more when they return to their country, simply for political reasons. To harm your citizens for political reasons, to have the country in the state that is after having also received many millions from the European Union..., and there are still tremendous social differences in that country. I believe that this use of citizens from Morocco is very critical. It criticizes the Venezuelan regime, and quite rightly - I support them absolutely in that - but no criticism of the Moroccan regime? What is the quintessence of democracy? Are you not using mechanisms that are not acceptable in international relations? Of course, Morocco is a key country, on security issues, on migration issues, also in economic relations in the Mediterranean. He's a neighbor. But let us act with realism, realism for all. Realism is to know that it is a neighbor, not the permanent partner and with good intentions of always, and to know that there are responsibilities that cannot be left behind and that must be faced. I'm on my way. Mr. Hispan said: Let yourself be helped. I was telling the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u126	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u127	I'm done, I said, and I'm done, really. Is this notion really the way to help? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u129	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are putting forward a motion concerning the foreign policy of the Kingdom of Spain on three fronts, the order of which I shall try to follow in my speech. With regard to Europe, we fully agree with the mismanagement of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. Obviously, the appearances of ministers in some Commission is not to participate; nor is it to participate to know the Plan Spain It can at the same time as the press; nor is it to be able to windows for proposals to be presented, and neither have we taken into account the SMEs, the autonomous communities or the municipalities, which are the ones who know the reality best. That's what we agreed on. [[The Lord]] Also in relation to Europe, you urge us to defend Spain's interests in the institutions of the European Union. Are these interests defended when there are Spaniards in charge? Doesn't this violate the principle of independence? You are also talking about defending Spanish interests. Well, the European Union project is a common project, it would be defending the interests of the whole European Union, from our point of view. And to defend Spain's interests in the institutions is to control, I do not know whether or not, the Court of Justice, for example, so that it does not issue provisions with precautionary measures returning immunity to MEPs Comin, Puigdemont and Ponsatí? Will Spain in this case respect the free movement of MEPs? I think this is for everyone. Is Spain a member or not of the European Union? Because free movement is all over the territory of the twenty-seven. In your motion, speaking of Europe, you refer only to the European Union. We are missing another international organization, which is the Council of Europe, because you will know that last week we had a report from the Council of Europe. In view of this report, the reaction of the Government of Spain has been, at least, surprising, because the press release says that the report endorses the action of the Government of Spain in relation to Catalan political prisoners and, then, if the note is read, it is said that the Government of Spain makes a general criticism of the report, and it is said that the report is based on a wrong approach. So it is not clear to us - and I look at the ladies and gentlemen of the party that supports the Government - whether or not the report really supports Spain's action in relation to political prisoners. Because what the report does tell us is that political prisoners should not be required to refuse convictions in order to have a more favourable prison regime; that those who sympathize with prisoners and exiles should not be punished; that the crime of embezzlement should be properly applied; that all those involved in the trial of one October should be withdrawn; that extradition proceedings should be abandoned; that prisoners should be pardoned or released, among others. With regard to point two, the transatlantic link, you speak here, among other things, of promoting the rule of law, respect for human rights in Latin America. Here we go back to what we have told you many times in commissions: preach with the example. You cannot be leaders or pretend to explain what a rule of law is when you do not respect it internally. Third axis. North African and Mediterranean relations. Here one of the points is to urge to strengthen the presence of security forces and bodies at the border. Is this the solution? People affected, where are they? The rights of these people, where are they? Why do these people leave their countries and risk their lives, where is it? Is the solution they propose always repression? Don't you know how to contribute anything positive? In conclusion, you say that the Kingdom of Spain has become an unreliable actor in Europe. I guess all over the world. What would Spain be like if it were a State that respected the rule of law internally, a State without dictatorial vestiges, a State without political prisoners or exiles or reprisals, a State without convictions for exercising freedom of expression, a State that did not appear in the report of the Council of Europe with Turkey or in a report of the arbitrary detention group of the United Nations? What would Spain be like? Have they considered that if Spain were not this its international image would improve and, consequently, the state of its foreign policy? Plant it all you, and perhaps the foreign policy, image, relevance, influence, credibility and authority of your country will improve. As you said, Mr Hispan, foreign policy is the reflection of internal affairs. Hence the credibility of his kingdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u131	Thank you. We are tired of seeing how all you are concerned about is the image of the Spanish State abroad. They are not aware of how the decisions of their governments - of both governments - to maintain and boost their businesses impact the lives of millions of people. It hurts to see how your arms business to keep the southern border fortified causes thousands of people to be willing to cross the border without guarantees of human security. Because no, the problem is not to welcome the leader of the Frente Polisario for health reasons. The problem is that their Governments have been sending arms to the Moroccan monarch for years in exchange for protecting their borders, silent about human rights violations in Western Sahara or the Rif in exchange for Morocco's silence on human rights violations at the border. It hurts to see the uncomfortable silence of the Spanish Government in the face of repression to demobilize unemployment in Colombia. More than a month ago, unemployment began and there has not yet been a sad stance on the part of the Government. How many more people should die? How many more people must end up being retaliated so that all of you, who are present in this House, are concerned about the guarantee of human rights in Colombia? In fact, just yesterday we knew that the Emeritus King - whom you, by the way, do not want to investigate and whose corruption you can no longer even cover - negotiated to send military assistance to the United States so that it could attack Colombia militarily, kill in Colombia. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, it was his partner Aznar who sent it. What's the matter, they don't even dare comment on this? It also hurts to see how the PSOE superimposes its financial and arms business with the Erdogan government over its relations with its socialist comrades in Turkish territory. It is exhausting to see how they do not even have the decency to demand an end to criminalization and repression towards the Kurdish movement and the third political force of the Turkish parliament, the HDP. It is exhausting to see how certain economic interests are put forward above human dignity. What are we going to tell PP, when you've done the same thing for years? It hurts to see how your arms business is ending the lives of thousands of people in Yemen. Saudi ships are constantly arriving to collect Spanish weapons and then use it in the Yemeni war, and no one, however committed to it in the royal decree, is investigating the end use of this weapon. Moreover, the licenses that go to Saudi Arabia are not being denied either, when they know exactly where they are going to end up. But, of all this, you do not think, because too many dirty games in which you are involved would come to light. It hurts to see, although not surprising, that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have the indecency to vote against the report of the Assembly of the Council of Europe calling for the release of political prisoners - yes, political, both Catalan and Turkish -. And it is tiring to see, as Mrs Illamola has already said, that once the report has been adopted, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs lies publicly so as not to accept that in its own State the Government commits human rights violations. I suppose you gentlemen of the PP don't want to talk about this either. I would simply tell them to stop selling themselves like saints, because after so many years that no longer hangs. Review everything they have done for years in the Government and ask for explanations from their predecessors. That would certainly be much more useful than all his speeches as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u133	Good afternoon, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. President. We are debating here today a motion for a follow-up call by the Group of the European People's Party on foreign policy and international policy. If we talk about international policy, foreign policy, our parliamentary group believes that on a day like today what we have to do, firstly, is to congratulate the people of Peru on the democratic example given this weekend and, secondly, beyond ideological positions, I believe that all democrats have to salute that a rural teacher, Pedro Castillo, will be the next president of Peru, that a rural teacher has democratically defeated a dictator's daughter in the ballot box and, moreover, condemned for corruption. [[Applauds]] And, of course, beyond celebrating - as our parliamentary group is celebrating - the consolidation of the cycle of progressive and democratic governments in Latin America, despite the reactionary international that the right-wing ladies and gentlemen are trying to feed, I believe that the group of Democrats in our country must commit itself so that the new time that opens up in Peru, after many years of neoliberalism and corruption, is a time of democracy and that we support the political changes that will follow. But let's go to the motion. Other parliamentary groups have said this: it does not cease to be surprising or almost comic that the People's Party will bring us a motion to talk, precisely, about what they have not done when they have ruled, which is basically to be active in foreign policy. One wonders, moreover, which People's Party brings this motion. Will the People's Party inherit Mr. Mariano Rajoy, who mocked the fact that he did not deal with what was happening in Syria but in Soria? Will it be the People's Party, and this is already more serious, that put a convicted man now in jail for corruption, Mr. Rodrigo Rato, managing director of the International Monetary Fund? Or is it perhaps the People's Party - they have also told you today - of Mr Aznar and the FAES, of the comedy of Perejil and, above all, of the tragedy of the war in Iraq? How can a People's Party and a right that has always been so servile and subaltern in foreign policy tell us today what this government has to do in international politics? [[Applauds]] When, moreover, the most prominent - and several groups said - of his curriculum vitae in external action is a war; a war based on a lie, with a balance of more than six hundred thousand dead, and which has left, moreover, a devastated country and, above all, a geopolitical territory much more unstable than when Mr Blair, Mr Aznar and Mr Bush decided to start a war, and Mr Aznar lied in this House to all the Spaniards. That is your balance in foreign policy, Mr. Hispan, basically inaction, subalternity and something that they really like, getting into conflict and sanctions; they love sanctions. That is his main recipe for international politics. Look, it is precisely those conflicts and wars that you have supported and that others like you have initiated on the international scene the main ones responsible for the reality of migration and refugees that we now live in Europe and on our shores. Or do you think that what is happening, that the migratory reality, for example, on our border with Morocco has nothing to do with and has no direct connection with the wars of foreign policies such as yours, which have set on fire regions such as the Middle East, such as North Africa, such as the Caucasus, such as Syria, such as Iraq or how Afghanistan? Of course it has to do, ladies and gentlemen. And you tell us, in order to solve this situation, about three issues. First, you tell us about defending Spain's interests in Europe, when you spent the whole summer allied with other countries to defend foreign interests against those of this country. Then they tell us about the transatlantic link. With a transatlantic link, I suppose you mean to support, as you did with Mr Trump, all those initiatives, even if they are of interference, even if they are coups, even if they go against international treaties and human rights, in Latin America. I have already ended with two recommendations, two requests, for the right of this country in foreign policy. First, an easy one - they have already told you -: get on the side of the Democrats in Colombia. From here I make a call for solidarity with the Colombian people. Let the aggression of the Government and the paramilitaries in Colombia cease. [[Applauds]] And, secondly, once again stand on the side of justice and ask for the freedom of Juana Ruiz, a Spanish citizen, a health worker, irregularly detained by Israel in Palestine. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u134	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, no pictures can be taken within the Chamber, so please do not do so again. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Let's keep going. Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u135	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make it clear that international relations between countries, whether bilateral or multilateral, are based on interests. There are no permanent friends, there are permanent interests, and the Government should know that. The problem is that this social-communist government is lost and dispersed in ideologies progress and is not clear or unclear about what really interests Spain and the Spanish. We're not doing well in foreign policy either, and believe me, I'm sorry. The last Ibero-American Summit highlighted the serious deterioration that this Government is causing in the leadership of Spain and, above all, the loss of credibility in the defence of human rights, as shown, among others, I will quote Venezuela. We had a huge responsibility in defending that brother country and what they have achieved is that no one in the European Union follows Spain on the Venezuelan issue, because no one understands the government's political relations with the Maduro regime. On one side, that of Podemos, weighs the accusation of having been financed by the Bolivarian regime and, on the other, the Socialist Party, weighs the finding of finding its former president Zapatero dedicated to whitening the criminal regime of Maduro. The meeting between Delcy Rodríguez and Minister Ábalos in the T4 of Barajas and not receiving Sánchez a Guaidó in Moncloa were two episodes that revealed the lack of credibility and coherence of the current Spanish Government in its relations with Venezuela. It is very difficult to explain to the Spaniards that the aid that has not been received by Spanish SMEs has been received by a bankrupt airline, whose main shareholders have close links with chavismo. As far as the European Union is concerned, Spain must assert its sovereignty in matters as important to our nation as, inter alia, respect for and consideration for our justice and the issue of international trade agreements with non-Community third countries, which, particularly in the agricultural sector, are seriously damaging the economy of this sector, the survival of the rural world in order to avoid empty Spain and our cultures and traditions. There are those who accuse us of being Eurosceptic, and that is false; what we are is self-demanding, which is completely different. [[Applauds]] As far as our relations with the United States are concerned, these should not be guided in the short, medium and long term by the fact that our leaders fall better or worse. The United States is a country with a consolidated democracy, a friend of Spain and an ally of Europe at all times. In spite of this Government's havoc with the new Biden Administration, the reality is that, after four and a half months, he has not called Sanchez. He hasn't called yet. Spain has lost influence on the international scene, and this has been reflected in the failure of all attempts to place Spanish ministers in key positions in international organizations or in the candidatures of Spanish cities for the headquarters of some of them. Brexit is a golden opportunity to claim Spain's legitimate aspirations over Gibraltar. For the time being, we know that Gibraltar is going to continue its opaque and criminal activities, which are enormously damaging to the Spanish fiscal system and the economy of the area. In addition, Spain gains virtually nothing, while the United Kingdom, which has never been a Schengen territory, maintains a colony in Spanish territory that will allow it to enjoy that advantage that it did not previously have. As for Morocco, the unprecedented crisis was announced because of the mismanagement of the crisis by the Spanish Government, which had always denied hostilities with Morocco. Morocco has taken advantage of the weakness of the Government to make a demonstration of strength that shows how far it can go if its unreal claims and demands are not accepted. Morocco thus materializes a strategy of territorial expansion, invasion and extortion of the Kingdom of Spain with hostile actions on our borders, reminding me of the Green March in the Sahara, whose previous invasion I lived live with my parachute flag in 1975. Morocco is a blackmail and shows the lack of gratitude with Spain, which for many years has been helping it with all kinds of millionaire resources. That is why - and it has ended - the Government should give a strong response to the Kingdom of Morocco by implementing countermeasures in the diplomatic, economic and security fields with the unbridled support of the European Union, leaving itself on warm cloths and showing the Alawite Kingdom that it cannot be played with the security and sovereignty of the Kingdom of Spain. And remember, Morocco and the rest of the international issues with Spain are not played. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Hispan, we cannot be more irresponsible, we cannot act more irresponsiblely. You come here today with a motion as a result of the interpellation presented, with a millimeter opportunity and perfectly designed, regarding the situation experienced with Morocco. Instead of showing the Spanish Government a rapport position, they are once again trying to draw political results. [[Applauds]] That is the height of the People's Party in Spain, this People's Party. The people's party has her face, and I'm going to tell her why. In 2002, José Ruiz Rodríguez Zapatero, secretary general and leader of the opposition, showed all support and support for the People's Party government in the situation experienced with the islet of Perejil. In other realities, the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have stood firm in defending our country's interests. You don't, you never do, because you have the maximum of the worst going to Spain you're going to go to the People's Party. But it's not like that. But let's talk about Morocco. We are going to talk about Morocco without compromise, because you present this under the umbrella of foreign policy, but you want to talk about Morocco. Let's talk about Morocco. The situation in Morocco... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u138	One second, Your Honor. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. The conflict with Morocco responds to the Government of Morocco's maximum irresponsibility, playing with people to pressure and coerce Spain and the European Union. They are constantly repeating Spain's weak influence on the international or European level, but they are forgetting something. Is that little influence, for example, because the High Representative, Vice-President of the European Commission, Josep Borrell, is today the most responsible for international policy in Europe? Has that not been the merit of the action of the government, of the presence of President Sánchez at the European Council? That's what you don't say, because you don't care. In addition, they put the game of pardon and other things that interest them, because they think that with these campaigns to collect signatures they will be fine. Be responsible, think about territorial integrity, because what has been lived in Morocco and with Morocco is an attack on the territorial integrity of our country. You have no sense of state. Foreign policy is state policy, and we do not trust or take into account the People's Party at all because it is never up to it; when it is expected, it is never up to it. They have no remedy, neither in foreign policy nor in internal policy. They say that foreign policy is the reflection of internal policy. Do you want to cooperate? Do you want to tie your shoulder? Let us begin with the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, for example. If you have so much effort to help the Spanish Government and to project Spain's image abroad, stop taking a walk through the Council of Europe to call into question that Spain is a social and democratic state of law and to torpedo the 750 billion Euro Recovery Plan that the European Commission is presenting to access capital markets and that the 27 can take on the great challenge of getting out of the current situation of blockade. That is what the People's Party or its leader does, that a week before what he lived in Ceuta meets with an ultranationalist party that supports the liberation of Ceuta and Melilla. Is that the responsibility of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] That same leader who hits his chest here talking about the Catholic Kings and the oldest nation in Europe is the one who plays against the interests of our country. That is the real People's Party - the real People's Party - which does not think of Spain but of the People's Party. That's the real reality you draw. And I give you a piece of information, as you are filled with words about Latin America or Venezuela, because in this parliamentary term, which has shaped our country's foreign policy on Venezuela: seven years of government of the People's Party, aid for international protection 23; in three years of government of the Socialist Party and now in coalition, 77 000 aid for international protection only with Venezuela. Where are the data? Where's the worry? Let us stop using countries to do politics in Spain and act responsibly. They are well aware of the work of the High Representative, both with the United States and Latin America, and of the presence and role of the President of the Government in the European Council. That's the reality you don't want to see, because you don't care. They are not interested in Spain being projected. You should read - I recommend it, Mr Hispan - the report of the Elcano Royal Institute, which talks about the image of Spain abroad after the pandemic, and which is in a very good position. Be responsible, think about Spain, work for Spain and don't be so demagogue. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u140	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u141	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u142	Thank you. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in connection with the assessments of the autonomists. [[File number 173/000080]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u143	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government in relation to the contributions of the self-employed. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The VOX Parliamentary Group presents this motion as a result of urgent questioning to the Government to which we obtained the non-response of the Minister of Social Security, who dedicated himself to criticizing VOX's economic programme, to insinuating that we confuse social contributions with taxes and, ultimately, to lying about the non-agreements reached with the autonomous. The purpose of this motion is nothing but to improve the present and future situation of the self-employed and, therefore, of much of the Spanish productive fabric. That is why we are calling for the support of the rest of the groups in this House to be successful. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative has no colour and no ideology. It is a set of measures that anyone who has worked on his own knows that they are aimed at allowing the survival of the self-employed, the entrepreneur, the self-employed, who takes risks to carry out a business with his own resources, to which he dedicates 365 days of the year and which is an example of effort, without vacation or days of leave; courageous people who devote all their time to seeing his dreams flourish, at the risk of losing everything on many occasions. These dreams, these longings are transformed into added value for the whole economy and society; they generate new jobs for more families seeking to pay their payrolls, social contributions and life projects with consequent responsibility. I therefore insist, ladies and gentlemen, that this initiative provides sufficient tools for the self-employed in the fiscal, administrative and labour fields, so that they continue to contribute to economic growth, to the generation of value and wealth, which are the fundamental pillars to make Spain a better country, without queues of hunger, without unemployment and without the drama that we experience every time the rest of the world sneezes, because every time the Spanish economy makes it sick like no other. There are many reforms that Spain should carry out and VOX has proposed innumerable initiatives aimed at achieving these structural changes in the economic sphere, fundamental to be a dynamic, competitive, respectable and respected country within and outside our borders. But no government, with or without an absolute majority, has implemented the complete and necessary reforms so that, for example, Spanish entrepreneurs do not decide to move their headquarters to other countries or to attract lasting investment in time; nor to avoid the flight of capital, the result of unbearable tax systems and which cause special damage to those who have less disposable income: yes, to workers and to Spain that is early. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, early morning Spain is precisely that of the autonomous, early morning to pay taxes on all the parliaments of the autonomous communities, the megastructure of companies and public foundations and all the plugs of the ruling political class, not to mention those who go out to the streets to blow up shops when they fail to win the elections. [[applause]] The measures we are talking about begin because the Government withdraws the plan put forward for the reform of the contributions of self-employed workers - which seems to have already done so - and these measures have been rejected by self-employed people themselves because they consider that plan unfair and confiscatory. And the rest, up to eleven measures as a whole, aims to give flexibility to the system so that the self-employed can keep up with their contributions to the pace of their performance. Ladies and gentlemen of the party that supports the government, the VOX Parliamentary Group has come to propose in a spirit of governance, a time that will come, but today, despite the fact that we are the only critical and frontal opposition with which you have met, we have also come to make serious proposals such as those of this motion - yes, serious - so that you do not get wrong in your disgovernment with Podemos and other partners that you strike to mention. Although, with your attitude, you seem to believe that we govern and when you intervene in this rostrum your ministers oppose VOX; the government opposes the opposition. I understand that they see us in that role, logically, but stop making mistakes and tell their ministers to start ruling for the Spaniards and not against the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] If we do not establish a legal and fiscal framework that favours the maintenance and impulse of the autonomous and of the whole productive fabric, Spain will never be the country that deserves to be. The drift that today leads Spain with you to the leadership, with your parliamentary support of Spain's fracture, inevitably leads us to a poor and vulnerable society, to the dawn of a ruling political class. We believe that the best way to manage a country is by providing its factors of production with an environment that is flexible, agile and competitive; just the opposite of what the Government does: a general increase in taxes on all incomes; a rise in light; aid based on greater indebtedness to the self-employed, who will not be able to pay; a levy of autonomous quotas on those to whom the Government forbids them to work, and all for what? For to increase the number of advisors and raise their salary, to make long films of science fiction - Spain 2050-, to multiply the number of ministers and ministerial offices, to water with public money the televisions and companies of the environment of the Government of Venezuela, to approve a minimum vital income that does not reach all and to approve aid to some autonomous, who still do not know if they will arrive some day. We want the approval of this initiative to become a tribute to all those who have suffered so much and who have lost so much, and who have contributed so much to our society, in these months and always: to the fairers, hosteliers, merchants, transporters, taxi drivers, farmers, hairdressers, actors, singers, bullfighters, academies, gymnasiums and a long list of brave people we want to say that you are not alone, because only VOX is left. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u146	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-six years of self-government is taking my mother. Twenty-six years paying monthly the quota of the self-employed; twenty-six years. A few years before I came to politics I was working as an autonomous and I want to thank my colleague Maria Muñoz for allowing me to be the voice of Citizens today who defend the autonomous in this intervention. We all know some autonomous well, I'm sure many of you also have autonomous family members, and we know you're all-terrainers. They seem to have some kind of immunity from diseases and from the long days they have to start every day knowing that yesterday's work only serves them to a very limited extent. Therefore, we must work to ensure that they are not seen in a vulnerable situation when they reach retirement, when they are parents, or when they have to leave because of an accident or an occupational disease. I myself have been with a staggered leg developing my job because I couldn't afford not to charge for that service. [[The lady]] Regrettably, the self-employed sector is a precarious sector, which traditionally enjoys fewer rights than the self-employed. In fact, the current debate about the contribution on the real income of self-employed people is not new, it has always been accompanied by a great controversy as there are conflicting interests: on the one hand, whether or not the contributions of self-employed people are linked to their real income and, on the other hand, whether the rights of the collective that has always been characterized by insufficient social protection in the event of unemployment, accident, sick leave or retirement are increased. The current situation leads to significant breakdowns in the disposable income of families at times of change in the employment situation; however, this situation does not legitimize this Government to use self-employed workers as a source of income without more, with contributions that far exceed the contributions made by self-employed workers. Lords of the Government, self-employed people are not an automatic cashier; however, with regard to the measures they take for self-employed people, they are often unwise. At a time like the present one, when the self-employed have been one of the groups most affected by the pandemic since 1.5 million of them have been affected by benefits, this measure can put an end to many of them, converted by this Government into that, simply and simply an automatic cashier to express. It seems obvious to say that any action in this area must be supported by a great consensus, a consensus that, given its relevance and the different positions that remain, must be addressed in order to achieve a solution based on dialogue; that is, both the Government and the rest of the parliamentary forces must make a negotiation exercise with the associations of the sector because the solution, whatever it is, must be lasting. But this is an agreement that the Government has not wanted to reach so far because, again, it has preferred to opt for unilateral patches and routes rather than to defend an eternally damaged collective. We must be aware that our self-employed do not need tax increases but less bureaucracy and more direct aid, less taxes and less quotas. That is why we demand that the Government sit down and negotiate with all the actors, associations and political parties to reach a comprehensive agreement to resolve the problems mentioned here. Our proposal is to curb this reform of autonomous contributions until the Government finds a consensus solution with associations and parliamentary groups avoiding putting the economy of many autonomous people at risk at a time when we are still far from fully recovering activity. And, of course, this is all about forming a negotiating table - which we have introduced as an amendment to the text proposed by VOX - in which the associations of self-employed persons are represented and which addresses the problem of the lack of protection suffered by these self-employed persons. In addition, we have introduced amendments to the minimum contribution quota for those who do not reach the inter-branch minimum wage, also for those who contribute under the general scheme and who are obliged to contribute under that quota to self-employed persons. There are some exceptions, for example, in the first paragraph, where measures are taken in relation to social contributions and it is established that they can be voluntarily accepted for contributions from the age of 48. With the exception of those exceptions, we believe that it is a motion that can help the self-governing, who now more than ever need real measures, measures that are not a rope more about the circumstances and economic crisis they are experiencing. That is why we will support this motion, which has also incorporated our amendments, because we believe that it is now more than ever that they need a party like Citizens. We'll always be with the self-employed. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u148	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Parliamentary Group we will always be in favour of how many measures help and support the self-employed; it goes in our DNA. We are the party that has most relied on the autonomous, we have demonstrated it when we were the Government of Spain and now we have also demonstrated it in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities where we govern by approving tax cuts and direct aid. It serves as an example of my land, Andalusia, for the first time with a government of the People's Party, and is a leader in the number of self-employed and entrepreneurs. To the proposer group I would like to say that we are in favour of most of the points of the motion, but our group is a party of government and what this group proposes or votes is part of a responsible programme of government that we will soon realize with Pablo Casado as president of the government. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to the motion that we are debating for a good proposal to succeed, according to what the self-employed really need today, and we are glad that we have reached a good agreement. Point 1 of the motion loses its meaning because the disastrous plan of the Government for the reform of autonomous contributions has already been withdrawn, and it has been withdrawn thanks to the pressure of many political groups led by the People's Party, but above all because of the rejection of all representative autonomous organizations. The proposal for contributions submitted by the Government of Pedro Sánchez has a confiscation purpose outside the Toledo Pact. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it was a robbery, it was a blast for many self-employed people, and this is confirmed in the Stability Plan and the National Reform Programme which the Government has sent to Europe, where, among the measures envisaged to reduce the social security deficit, is the reform of the contributions of self-employed people. You don't have to be a professor of economy to know what this means; white and bottled: through the back door you raise taxes to the self-employed. That is why the amendment tabled, in which we urge the Government to continue to work within the framework of the social dialogue and as agreed in the Toledo Pact, to bring the contribution bases of the self-employed closer to their real income. The Group of the European People's Party is also proposing an amendment so that self-employed people can change the contribution base up to six times a year from the current four. In short, to make the conditions more flexible. In addition, we have incorporated a very important new point in the defence of the self-employed, and much more so in these days, so that the Government eliminates the requirement set out in Royal Decree 5/2021 whereby aid delegated by the Government to the self-employed communities can only be applied to settle debts and payments to suppliers prior to 31 May. I want to stop here, ladies and gentlemen. The self-employed in this country need direct aid and not cheating aid. It is intended to help those who have debts prior to 31 May. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what happens to the self-employed who have paid their debts with great effort by resorting to their savings? What happens to self-employed people who don't have debts prior to May 31st but instead have debts with their family members, who have left the money for them to be good payers? What this government does has no name, it punishes the payer; socialist ladies and gentlemen, you do have a face like an armed cement. From here and on behalf of many self-employed people, we demand direct aid from the government for self-employed people, as all the countries of Europe have done, without traps or cardboard. There can be no more trapping, and this government of Pedro Sánchez is, a trapping socialist government that is also going to turn the light on the self-governing. Which bar, which trade, which company shuts down their machines and plugs them from twelve o'clock in the night or on weekends with the valley fare? What the autonomists are asking is for you to leave the government. There is no Government in the history of this country that has done more harm to the self-governing, and I use this intervention to publicly congratulate all the organizations that represent the self-governing, for their work and for their constancy. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. In the face of the traps of the self-government of a government that is already agonizing politically, the strength, illusion and serious proposals of the People's Party, which show their unwavering support for self-government, and we will again demonstrate this from the Government of Spain with measures to enable them to work freely and in better economic and working conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Ortiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. The relevant inquiry into the great problem created by the Government in relation to the contributions of self-employed persons has a very good alternative in this motion. It is peremptory to correct the inconveniences generated by the Executive and, singularly, by the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, José Luis Escrivá, who is characterized by disturbing all sectors and social agents who negotiate with him. By the way, when the minister complains here or in the Senate about false information, about fakes that harm those who fall into the traps of the bubbles, it would be useful to remember - both he and his colleagues in the blue bank - that the public media mechanisms are at their disposal to inform people and limit the number of self-employed workers who are harmed by the disillusioned and the harmful. Ladies and gentlemen, I abstained in October in the vote on the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and then argued that the government was freed up. And yes, we are seeing it with the skirmishes on account of the pension reform to convert a system that, through socialism, will penalize, like life imprisonment, early access to their retirement even though the worker has contributed during a long career. And yes, we also see the free bar in the discussions with the representatives of the autonomous regarding the model 'trace it' about the quotation for their real income and the eternal fiscal persecution that stifles them. And yes, the plan that the Government sent to Brussels was made outside the self-employed sector, from the back to its chronic precariousness, making a lot of money in its very volatile economy. Ladies and gentlemen, when a few minutes ago this House witnessed the furious attack from this rostrum on the Governor of the Banco de España informing, as is his obligation, of the negative effects of the SMI on employment, and that such an attack is irresponsibly carried out from the very bench that holds the blue bank, it is worth highlighting, with more reason, the tricks of this Sánchez government of the lie, of the scam, of the usurpation and of the ruin of Spain. Mr. Escrivá doesn't carry anything well that contradicts him. To this day it remains in the concern and uncertainty of large sectors whose immediate future hangs and depends on the decisions - in some cases very unfair - of the minister and his technocracy of big data, cannibal calculator and sharp scissors to prune present and future economic rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the self-employed make up a group of more than three million workers who are a key part of the productive fabric and we cannot forget that today there are still 440,000 unemployed, with ERTEs impacting 12% overemployment. A group that is a victim, as has been repeated, of a discriminatory system that penalizes them if they fall ill and that are in any case fundamental and essential for socio-economic reconstruction after the pandemic; a group that envisions how the Government, with the so-called 'Packet 2' of reforms, will be burdened with the extent to which self-employed people whose incomes do not reach the minimum wage should be eligible and yet, as the flat rate was a matter for the Government of the People's Party, the ministry wants to laminate it. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the growing indignation over the stratagems over a sector that has also been the victim of Mr Escrivá's treasuries and the proposal on the future stages that would be applied in order to contribute to real income, which has been carried out outside the specific dialogue table where the representation of the Government and the main organisations of self-government have always met. All this justifies the need for this non-law proposal of VOX, which combats the confiscational desires of a government that accelerates its collection machine on the pretext of the reform of the contributions, disregarding that, on the autonomous, a collective that, I repeat, generates a lot of employment, has discharged a part of the lateness resulting from the crisis arising from the health emergency in 2019 and prolonged to the present. By the way, an executive who worked hard this year to raise by no less than 20% the flat rate on which the conditions for workers with difficulties seeking access to it have also hardened. Things of the Government of the Regression, whose measures have dragged us, as it has always governed the PSOE, to the debt uncovered and whose severe consequences are paid by society and, in particular, by the workers. Madam President, she concluded by reiterating that the government has failed in its labour policy and the demonstration of this failure is in the sector to which all these very good measures are directed, which Mrs Cañizares has defended and which I will support with my vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u151	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost nights, ladies and gentlemen. The proposer group has had bad luck, because the one who has fallen into a GNP and a motion on the same subject the same day drowns them in the possibility of being able to give two days in a row the same absolutely demagogic message; although they simply lose headlines, because the content does not cease to be the same. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about self-employed people and, above all, their contributions. I would like to remind you of a text. It says: Recommendation 4, Integration and convergence of regimes. The Commission urges that the process of managing the system's systems be deepened so as to achieve two single frameworks, one for self-employed and one for self-employed. The aim is to achieve comparable social protection between these two schemes on the basis of a similar contribution from the respective groups.' Discrimination or attempt to offer similar protection? 'In this field - it continues - the Commission recommends to continue to make progress in the full equalization of the rights and obligations of the self-employed with those of the general system together with measures which include early retirement and part-time work, but which at the same time allow the necessary controls to be applied in order to avoid the inappropriate use of such options. In the Commission's view, the financial sustainability of the pension system requires that, gradually and in keeping with the wide variety of situations and collectives, measures be promoted within the framework of the social dialogue to bring the contribution bases of self-employed workers closer to their real income, so that the basic principles of contribution and solidarity on which the system is based are not undermined.' Let's see, what are we talking about? To establish differentiated situations or to equate situations and bring some real bases closer to others? And keep going. Recommendation 5. Adjustment of the bases and periods of contribution. On the other hand, the Commission considers it essential that, as a general rule, the contribution bases be adapted to the actual returns obtained by the worker, whether on his or her own or on his or her own account. In this respect, the progress made... is to be welcomed; in line with this, the public authorities are urged to adapt, within the framework of the social dialogue, the contribution of the special scheme for self-employed workers, linking the amount of contributions to the real income.' Is the principle of contributory good for something, or are we going to create exceptional or special regimes again? Go ahead our discrepancy with the integrity of the proposal and with each of its three blocks or groups of proposals. The first is to rule out the conclusions of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact as regards both the approximation of the bases of contribution to real income and the integration of the most serious area of protection, or to make progress in both the principles of contribution and solidarity, which characterize the system. This is not only not a step forward, but it is acting diametrically opposed to the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. In this respect, it is true that the VOX Group abstained, but other groups that are supporting these proposals today are expressing implicit support for measures, in my view, incompatible with the content of the Toledo Pact. And more serious is the second: Promote changes in the IRPF apart from its specific character and, in our case, where the outside territories already have their own policy in this area. But I was surprised to read the motion, as I see it, where it contemplates the possibility of fiscally compensating the general negative bases with the positive tax bases of savings and returns either of real estate capital or of property profits. What are you proposing? Any system of money laundering through this situation? It's amazing. I thought it was amazing and surreal, really. Three: amending the aid. We just dealt with it in a GNP barely two hours ago, I think, and I have said that these are extremely populist, generalist and demagogic measures, and from them the House library is full of them. There are, however, some issues that obviously need to be agreed in this framework of social dialogue and that need to be clarified with concrete measures, but not in this way. As I have already said, I believe that this is a reissue of the non-law proposal that we have dealt with before, but that it has the same populist and demagogic purpose to which I have previously referred and, of course, we are not going to support it, but indeed there are some things that have caught my attention tremendously. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you for a little silence. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u154	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is said that in tax policy there is a classic principle, which is that of equity, sometimes understood as synonymous with equality. This equity seeks to apply a barometer of justice to the maintenance of public spending: to what extent we should each contribute. Academics have dissected this principle on a horizontal and a vertical side. The first is that two persons with the same purchasing power must contribute equally. The second, equally important, but perhaps even more interesting, because we have less in mind, is that two people with different purchasing power must contribute in a different way, than those who have the most pay. Do you know what disruptive, disruptive thought hides this principle? Do you know who is the revolutionary thinker who gave rise to these reflections? One of the parents of liberalism, the Scottish Adam Smith. I am not saying this because it professes a special devotion to that current of thought - not at least to its modern derivatives - but because, according to what is being discussed today - the system of contribution for self-employed workers - it is only necessary to follow the principles of classical liberalism to arrive at the conclusion that it is necessary to contribute according to the income received. It is true that quotation is an element and a different system, separate from taxation - we do not want to be confused with this - but it is equally true that in a system of quotations of distribution as the worker in this State we talk not only of an individual saving mechanism, but of a system designed to collectively guarantee its own sustenance. Well, my group has been working for years on a reform that will bring this basic and obvious principle to the system of contributions, as is the principle of equity. From our point of view, we must ensure that also among the self-employed, a heterogeneous collective where there are them, those who earn more and those who earn less can contribute less, and all this not only because of a question of justice, but also because of efficiency, because the system cannot be sustained, unless we decide to reduce its functions, if there is no one who assumes the cost. In other words, if we believe that a self-employed worker who is starting his or her career and barely succeeds in covering expenses must contribute a minimum amount - and we believe it - and at the same time we believe that all workers should be guaranteed the right to the temporary disability and unemployment benefit - which we consider, who does not - someone has to pay. The solution proposed by Esquerra Republicana can be found again in the thinker at the beginning referred to, in his famous but unknown work, more cited than read, The wealth of nations, in which he has meridically clear that the richest must contribute to public spending - and I quote literally - not only in proportion to their income, but in a quantity more than proportional. That is to say, the solution proposed by our parliamentary group for the financing of the social security system is that those self-employed workers who make tens of thousands of euros, which we do not blame them, should make a greater contribution to the social security system to ensure their viability. From our point of view, this triple recipe that those who make little quotes, who offer quality social benefits and those who make more quotes are of pure common sense, but of course, these three issues must be interdependent. As an isolated measure, some of VOX's proposals might hit, but they don't tick. We will not contribute to the great lie of the far right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u155	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u156	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - Mrs Cañizares, I see it - that I was surprised by the unusually constructive tone of your motion. We are accustomed to the deployment of flowery metaphors and hysterical hyperboles that we usually show, one cannot fail to thank certain phrases such as this one which I quote literally - and I quote -: 'In the beginning, the financial aid approved by the Government was a relief for certain self-employed people and businesses'. I'm closing Comillas. I've had to read it twice to make sure. Even when the time comes for criticism, it begins by establishing that - I also quote literally - the government's proposed real income contribution system is not the right one. It's not the right one, he says. It is a criticism that I thank again, since the supposed inadequacy for once is not followed by the already known retahíla of misfortunes: Bolivarian, abertzale, indepe, socialcommunists. We have taken away so much adjective and at least we are establishing a somewhat more constructive debate. Now, Mrs Cañizares, the fact is that the measures you criticise are only a first proposal sent by the Government to the social partners, as you will know, with a view to progressing within the framework of the social dialogue. In addition, it is a proposal for self-employed workers in line with the terms of the co-government agreement between my political formation and the Socialist Party, which in point 4.6 reads literally: We will promote social dialogue with organisations representing self-employment for the gradual equalisation of the rights of this group with those of workers on behalf of others. A system of contributions for real income will be established on the basis of tax information, which will provide them with greater protection in the event of unemployment, sickness or retirement and which will prevent those and the less self-employed from paying an excessive fee. In addition, it will result in increased collection for the system and will contribute to strengthening solidarity among the self-employed. This said the co-government agreement. That is to say, the Government is only moving forward on the path that it has already publicly pointed out at the beginning of the legislature, without surprises, and in this case, when we refer to the fiscal debate, it also does so supported by the principle of progressiveness enshrined in article 31 of our Constitution. I know that in the background this is what's pouring out of them. For you fiscal progressiveness does not cease to be an incongruity, a remorse to which, however, you do not have the guts to publicly oppose because you know that the egalitarian principle of each according to his or her needs; of each according to his or her abilities' is extended and accepted by all Spanish society, and because you also know that precarious rates of self-employment triple those of self-employment and, therefore, it is an urgent sector of this type of measure. Instead, instead of being honest with their ultra-liberal position, they improvise a series of arguments to touch on the Government's proposal, arguments that, in my view, are thrown away as sugar in hot water at nothing being analysed. For example, they argue that the measure could only apply to 46 % of the self-employed whose returns are those known to the Treasury. In addition, you warn that there will be more powerful self-governing sectors that move into the immersive economy motivated, you say, because they are abusive quotas. Well, let's just assume we're good at both premises. The solution will then be to improve and integrate the tax information system in order to extend its application, not to make it impossible and suspend the State in its functions. The reasoning you make, therefore, cannot, in my view, be more childish. It is equivalent to the fact that the state is imperfect, then better without state. As regulation can fail, then better without regulation. Law of the jungle for all. Everyone here to their thing and if I've seen you, I don't remember. With that logic, Your Honor, you know we would never have left the caves. [[Applauds]] The fact is that this Government, ladies and gentlemen, is making an unprecedented effort to cater to the productive sectors of our country, including the self-employed, 1.5 million of whom have already benefited from aid for a drastic cessation or reduction of activity. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Government has also put on the table a proposal that will reduce social security contributions to those self-employed with incomes below EUR 17,000 per year without reducing benefits. The truth is, in short, that this Government has a Minister of Labour, Your Honor, committed to improving the lives of the workers of this country through dialogue and understanding and to which you will simply never forgive for being a communist. It doesn't matter. You know why? Because we don't need your indulgence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, never in the recent history of this country has progress been made both in the protection of the self-employed and since the arrival of Pedro Sánchez as President of the Government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] From the minute one of the arrival to the government presidency, in 2018, historical demands of the autonomous collective are being addressed. From the minute one have offered to modify their system of protection, taking giant steps towards that desire to homologate the self-employed with the rest of the workers of the general regime. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a particularly delicate time as a result of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, but even before that time many measures had already been taken. Already in December 2018, with Magdalena Valerio as Minister of Labour, measures of great utility for the self-employed were taken, their equalization with wage earners in protected quotas was achieved and the cessation benefit was established. Already that year, the legal loophole that has come today to cover all the protection that the Government has put in place since it had to stop business as a result of the pandemic. Already at that time it is accepted, perhaps in a surprising and unexpected way for some, to give as good a chance to make an exceptional reform as it is to adapt the system of quotation to the real income. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a collective which is fundamental in the economic structure of this country - we are talking about three million families - and to which it is very difficult to apply proportionally equal laws, because it is the most heterogeneous collective from a professional point of view. When we say autonomous, we embrace them all, but we all know that there is no autonomous equal to another and that there are even autonomous who are not equal to themselves over time. This difficulty is the one to work and the one we have to face, ladies and gentlemen. Since we started this reform, as far back as 2018, something has happened that you seem to ignore: nothing more or less than a pandemic that, without the existence of a strong and willing government, would have laid the very foundations of the country's economic system, not only, ladies and gentlemen, of the autonomous. [[Applauds]] However, this Government has put an unknown protection network in the history of this country. Do you know what you did, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, when you were still in the PP and ruled Mariano Rajoy in the previous crisis? Do you know what they did to the self-employed? No aid to self-employed persons, without aid. [[Applauds]] Their taxes went up, ladies and gentlemen, and they took away their social protection. The difference with this government is that since the beginning of the crisis we have helped more than one and a half million self-employed people, we have granted more than EUR 10 billion in aid and quota relief, we continue to provide protection to 450,000 self-employed people. And you know what? That thanks to this government's protective shield, today, with which we have fallen, there are 50,000 self-employed members more than before February 2020. Yes, Your Honor, don't be afraid. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and of the right, this is the letter of presentation of this government with the autonomous, this one. Let us now go to the debate that the motion intends to put on the parliamentary agenda. You do not say this expressly, but in some way you let the contribution fall as a punishment, and not as a contribution for these or for any workers as a punishment, but on the contrary, as a guarantee of being able to enter into the largest social protection system in this country, which is the social security system. That is what today allows us to have 10 million Spaniards who when they reach an age can have an economically dignified life. Here too we have to pay attention to another reality, ladies and gentlemen, and it turns out that the self-employed today have that less dignified life. And you know why? Because their pension is much lower than that of workers on behalf of others. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 70% less. This is what we are trying to correct, but the quotation is neither punishment nor collection. I could enter, as other honourable Members have done, into all the points that you point out in this motion and in the improvements to them, but I will talk about something more global. Today we have a ministry, at other times we did not want to do it; we have a government and a president of the government who are predisposed to the autonomous have a revolutionary change and in favor of their own activity, and that is called social dialogue, social dialogue. [[Applauds]] So don't worry, the social dialogue tables are open. We must, of course, find ourselves in a negotiation process. Let the ministry work, let the autonomous associations work, because look...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u159	Mrs. Baños, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u160	...this government, if anything has proved with facts, is that the self-governing can live in peace, not as they did... [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Baños. Mrs Cañizares, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u162	We have signed a transaction between PP, Citizens and VOX.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u163	All right, thank you very much. We shall vote on the motion in those terms. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. We voted for the proposal of the Murcia Regional Assembly to reform the Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June on the Statute of Autonomy of the Murcia Region. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 103 plus 234 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 103 plus 155 telematics votes, 258; against, 51 telematics votes; abstentions, 28 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-08-CD210608.u165	Consequently, the proposal to reform the Autonomy Statute of the Murcia Region obtains the House's favourable vote. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night, everyone. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
