ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. [[Rumors]] I ask you, please, to occupy your seats and to remain silent. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 12/2021 of 24 June, adopting urgent measures in the field of energy taxation and energy generation, and on the management of the regulatory fee and the water use fee. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro asked for the floor.-Rumores]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u2	Madam President, Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the Royal Decree-Law to be put to the vote in its final third provision amends the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands Act 1994, it requested that the third additional provision of the Constitution be read before the vote and debate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. This Presidency considers that the reading of the precept you mentioned in the Spanish Constitution does not proceed at this time. I think it is a well-known and, in any case, easily accessible text for all your ladies and gentlemen. We therefore begin with the debate on the decree-law and, first of all, the third vice-president and minister for the ecological transition and the demographic challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u4	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I am addressing you in order to defend and request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/2021 of 24 June, approving urgent measures in the field of energy taxation and energy generation, as well as the management of the charge for regulating the rate of water use. The decree-law that we present today responds to a period of extraordinarily high energy prices, attributable to a complex context to which special attention must be paid. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u5	I'm sorry, Madam Vice President. There's a constant rumor in the Chamber. Please, I'm asking you to be quiet. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u6	He said that this is a sensitive issue at a special time in which we aspire to work to achieve the economic recovery of families and the economy as soon as possible, aligned with the need to boost the energy transition. For this reason, because of the impact of the electricity price on this recovery, by the domestic economies and by industry, we are extremely concerned about the evolution of the electricity price, a sustained evolution in the time that we see that since March in the wholesale markets has been increasing to limits never seen, such as the price that today marks the wholesale market of 106 euros the megawatt hour. The projections show us how this trend does not seem to clear in the coming months. That is why all the measures available to us to mitigate the regressive impact of these prices must be promoted - impact on industry, impact on consumers, impact on the economy and society as a whole - knowing that these prospects for the future evolution of the price of natural gas and CO2, although they do not respond to the regulatory decisions of the Spanish Government or Parliament, are important when it comes to setting prices. This is not an exclusive situation in Spain, it is not a situation that the Spanish Government alone can solve either. We see how electricity prices in the European Union are quite aligned with those we have been living in Spain and Portugal. In fact, on 2, 8, 12 and 13 July Spain and Portugal have been below the prices of other wholesale markets in the European Union. Almost every day prices in Italy and the United Kingdom have been above prices in Spain and Portugal and yet all of them have been very high and many days Spain and Portugal have been above the others, with the exception, I say, of Italy and the United Kingdom. This is mainly due to the increase in gas prices, which has risen by 10 % over the last seven days, or to the price of CO2 emissions on international markets. We know that it is closely associated with the design of the wholesale market in accordance with the rules of the European Union, which sought an efficient and simple design, a design that is suitable when all forms of electricity generation move in forks of similar cost. Obviously, it is not appropriate when there is a very large gap between ways of producing cheap electricity, which are gaining weight in the market, and a small margin of ways of producing electricity at high prices due to the use of fossil fuels and the need to pay for greenhouse gases. This dystonia, this dysfunction in the regime, in the design of the European electricity market, we have already informed Vice-President Timmermans and the European Commissioner for Energy. We believe that it is important to facilitate market design mechanisms that do not bring this huge difference to consumers where cheap energy continues to be paid from high prices of the highest amount of electricity generation costs. This price escalation, coupled with the evolution of the price of natural gas, said earlier, seems to remain on the future markets for the coming months. We see how important power cuts have occurred these days in China, how demand for Asian markets is growing enormously, how this high demand associated with economic recovery and the limitation of natural gas exports in producing countries like Russia is behind a rising demand for gas with rising prices. We saw that something similar is happening with the evolution of CO2 prices, an evolution of CO2 prices that was not considered likely in any of the impact analyses handled by the European Commission for this decade. In fact, the Commission's impact analysis estimated that the tonne of CO2 would move around EUR 25 in 2025 and EUR 50 in 2030, when in recent weeks we have seen CO2 prices of between EUR 50 and EUR 58. That is why the debate on liquidity in the CO2 market or on the operators authorised to take positions on this market must also be part of the debate. The CO2 price signal must be what it wanted to be from day one: an instrument facilitating the change of investment decisions, cannot be a guillotine for domestic and industrial consumers. That is why this is also a relevant issue at the moment in the European debate. Alongside these issues which obviously go beyond the scope of the Spanish Government and Parliament, we believe that we need to speed up the scope of domestic regulation in order to avoid this impact on citizens. We know that for this it is important to work on all the sections, on all the margins, of which we have: functioning of the market, charges and tolls, and taxation. We are convinced that the transition must focus on the benefit and social well-being of citizens, and that is why we want to make an equitable sharing of the costs of the system without harming those who are most vulnerable. We believe that the effort that is required has to bear more who can contribute most or who will benefit most from the transition over the next few years. We know that we have some bottlenecks such as the limitation of interconnections with France, which makes it difficult for us to dilute the high price moments of our market when the Central European markets are cheaper, or a market in which, despite the enormous work carried out during these years to facilitate other pricing systems outside the wholesale market, we are approaching what is already the reality in other countries that surround us, where it turns out to be an adjustment market, require sustained support for the structural change of our energy system. We know that the reduction in the benefit of non-broadcasting and older sub-marginal technologies due to the high CO2 prices - which we hope to be able to forward in the coming weeks in the form of a bill - is an important and fundamental issue. We know that it is also key to phase out the charges on the bill, and we intend to do so thanks to the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, whose final approval depends on the Courts. However, the functioning of the market or the CO2 signal, as I say, depends on other actors, not just the European regulator. Therefore, in the context of the Fit for 55 Commission proposal, as we have already submitted by letter, we must initiate a deep reflection and debate on the functioning of the current market with the aim of facilitating improvements that will allow consumers to perceive the economic and environmental benefits of the transition process in which we are immersed. However, all the circumstances suggest that this may take some time; we must therefore work to be able to benefit fully from these measures and, in the meantime, to look for formulas that relieve the burden on consumers. That is the objective of this Royal Decree-Law 12/2021, for which I ask your support. We set in its first article the reduction of 21 % to 10 % of VAT on the electricity bill until 31 December 2021 for consumers with a maximum of 10 kilowatts of contracted power, that is, 97% of domestic consumers, a measure that will be active as long as the price on the wholesale market is above EUR 45 per megawatt hour, which unfortunately, according to the projections we have, is more than likely to be the scenario in which we live in the coming months. It is vital for this government to protect families, especially the most vulnerable ones, so we have wanted the reduction of VAT to 10% to apply to all social bonus recipients regardless of price developments, always until the end of the year, as a temporary measure as long as we continue to work on the substantive measures. This measure will benefit approximately 612,000 households on this condition, approximately 50% of all households benefiting from some kind of social bonus. The reduction of VAT - I insist - will include 97% of domestic consumers and 2.8 million businesses and self-employed in our country. In other words, it represents a direct benefit for domestic, industrial and autonomous consumers, a key relief at a time of recovery when the price of electricity makes us spend difficult times. This is the reason for the validation of this royal decree-law, since the increase in the bill is a problem for the economy of thousands of families, especially for families with lower incomes, where electricity has a very high weight in the whole of their domestic economy. The rule also provides for a temporary suspension of the electricity production value tax from 1 July to 30 September, which will have an indirect impact on the bill and, in particular, on industry. This suspension, according to the best estimates of revenue and costs, is compatible with a closure of the year 2021 of the electrical system in equilibrium, respecting the principle of economic and financial sustainability enshrined in Law 24/2013 of 26 December of the Electrical System. The joint impact of these two measures can lead to a reduction of more than 12% in the household bill and up to 6% of the bill in the large industry, which already had a beneficial regime in the charging system. Ladies and gentlemen, the path of transition also leads us to think about the territories in developing the renewable penetration we need as a country to meet the challenge of climate change. It is clear that the greatest risk to our biodiversity, to our environment, is inaction in the face of the climate crisis, but we must also bear in mind that the transition we are undertaking needs to be just, social and, above all, needs to redistribute the benefits among all citizens and across all territories by making them part of it, without neglecting a fundamental element: the protection of the environment and the protection of the landscape. We will make a serious mistake if the benefits are left in limited hands as long as the costs are passed on to the social majority. This transition must serve to alleviate the effects of climate change, make our economy more resilient and boost our welfare state while protecting our natural capital. In this line, this royal decree-law modifies at an important point the Royal Decree 1183/2020, of access and connection to the transport and distribution networks. We want to establish in the access and connection competitions the possibility to introduce new socio-economic and environmental criteria that guarantee the distribution and reinvestment of the benefits, the most guaranteed proposals with environmental protection in those territories where these renewable investments are to be installed and developed; criteria such as the socio-economic impact on the area and its inhabitants, creation of direct and indirect jobs in the area, economic impact on the industrial value chain, participation by investors, companies and administrations of the region, provision of reinvestment mechanisms to the revenues obtained in the area where the installation is located or compatible with the protection of biodiversity and landscape are some of the elements that are contained in the new decree law. We want to reinforce the environmental requirements by establishing a score based on the degree of environmental condition of the projects and, therefore, the zoning map designed by the ministry to assess the impact of wind and photovoltaic projects in the territory will gain relevance when locating the facilities. I ask you for your support to strengthen the protection of our biodiversity, which is the heritage of all, to boost the local economies of the territories where renewable projects are located, because they deserve it from our neighbours. We know this is a winning bet if you have everyone. We do not want it to create unjustified and unjust tensions in the territory. On the other hand, the Government wishes to continue to address the energy transition also with the impetus of technological diversity and the promotion of the most innovative technologies, such as marine wind energy. Just two weeks ago, we brought public information to the road map of the sea wind and the energies of the sea. Together with the new planning of the management of the marine space, it gives us an opportunity to integrate with all guarantees the development of this technology. Therefore, through this royal decree law it is proposed to make a temporary stop at the receipt of requests for access to marine wind projects and not admit new requests until we have developed the full framework. Successfully achieving the goal of achieving the 3 gigawatts of floating wind by 2030 requires a rigorous framework that gives certainty to investors, developers and society, requires a spatial planning that, for more signs, is, moreover, maritime public domain. This Decree-Law 12/2021 also includes measures affecting the management of the regulatory fee and the water use fee, which have been the subject of numerous challenges as to the timing of the decline. This led the Supreme Court to annul the contested liquidations on the understanding that the amendments to the water law adopted in recent years contained an unauthorized retroactivity. The General State Budgets of 2021 amended the wording to eliminate this retroactivity pointed out by the Supreme Court by establishing the obligation to approve fees and fees before the beginning of the year in which they apply. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, could imply that the fees and tariffs could not be fully settled in the current year, assuming for the hydrographic confederations a serious damage as they would have to wait to collect such a settlement in the first half of the following year. This could mean that the basin agencies will no longer receive a very large part of their revenue during the current year, more than EUR 216 million; a situation that could lead not only to a very serious budgetary imbalance, but also to the paralysis of a significant part of their activities, preventing the water administration, the basin agencies, from providing the public service attributed to it by the Water Act. Therefore, in order to correct this situation, we amended the wording of Article 114.7, extending the liquidated period from the beginning of the calendar year in which it applies until the last day of the first half of the following year. This amendment will allow confederations to recover the costs of regulating surface or groundwater works, in the case of the regulating fee, and of hydraulic works, in the case of the water usage fee. In this way, the recovery of the above-mentioned costs encourages the efficient use of water and will facilitate the corresponding management payment by the confederation, as laid down in the framework directive. On the other hand, the second final provision of this Decree-Law provides for an amendment of Royal Decree-Law 34/2020 of 17 November of urgent measures to support business solvency and the energy sector, and tax matters. For reasons of security, order and/or public health, certain foreign direct investments made by residents of other countries of the European Union and of the European Free Trade Association shall be suspended temporarily until 30 June 2021, provided that there are a number of circumstances: that the investment takes place in listed companies in Spain or on non-listed companies if the value of the investment exceeds EUR 500 million, that is investments in critical infrastructures, critical technologies and dual-use products, sectors with access to sensitive information, fundamental inputs or the media. In this case, it will be necessary to request prior authorization to carry out the investment, which will be decided by the Council of Ministers after the report of the Foreign Investment Board. The impact of the health and economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic introduced uncertainty that led to the need to introduce a new authorisation regime for certain investments with the aim of protecting our security, order and public health. In the case of intra-Community investment, this temporary framework would be in force until 30 June 2021. With the expiry of that date approaching, it was considered necessary to introduce a new time limit extending until 31 December 2021, since circumstances similar to those which gave rise to their adoption were maintained. This prolongs the validity of this transitional measure, as we are still immersed in the consequences of the health crisis. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law establishes an amendment on the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, to which Mrs Oramas referred. The Government updates the absolute limit of the deduction for investments in cinematographic productions from €5.4 million to €12.4 million. Similarly, it adapts to the regulation given the deduction at state level in accordance with the communication from the European Commission on State aid to cinematographic works and other audiovisual productions. We are aware that there has been an unfavourable position on the part of some key players in the Canary Islands, arguing that the modification of this deduction limit in the Canary Islands does not comply with the special tax regime of the autonomous community. We believe that there has been no violation of the rules and that the Canary Islands continues to have competitive advantages over the rest of the peninsula to attract investment in this area. In fact, the amendment assumes that the difference of 2.4 million it had with regard to the productions that can be carried out in the rest of the Spanish territory is maintained. We are aware of the difficulties faced by the island territories and we are sensitive to them. Let me try to present the data of our direct commitment to the Canary Islands. Only with this objective analysis can we see that our concern as a Government translates into absorbing the shock of the crisis and generating an investment space for recovery, and this is possible by the extraordinary measures adopted by this Government. In 2020, despite the historical decline in GDP, the central government guarantees sufficient resources to shield health, education and the welfare state. Including all the concepts of the financing system, the Canary Islands counted in 2020 with 5590 million euros, 421 million euros more than in 2019, representing an increase of 8.1 %. From the COVID fund, of 16 billion euros, it obtained 551 million euros, and through the various The Canary Islands sectoral conferences had EUR 213.7 million. The additional resources provided by the State have made it possible to finance one hundred per cent of the increase in public expenditure and the fall in revenues from the COVIDien Canarias, which reached 917 million euros. Balancing accounts is, in our view, the first step in being able to govern without leaving anyone behind. This effort by the Central Government demonstrates the inexcusable financial support for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, the highest in the entire historical series. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the above, you will agree with me that the prompt implementation of the measures I have just detailed to you is essential, which the Government considers necessary, proportionate and appropriate in view of the current context, as well as essential to maintain the general interest of our country and to continue to protect the most vulnerable people. Therefore, he ended by asking his lordships to validate this Royal Decree-Law 12/2021. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u7	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Gimeno, first of all, is speaking on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u8	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the validation of this royal decree because it is a real scandal the situation of the price of electricity for consumers in Spain. The reduction of VAT could have been much more effective - or at least somewhat more effective - if, as we have requested in previous months, this decree had exempted VAT from the part of the receipt that is already due to the electricity tax. I mean, there's a part of the receipt where we're recording one tax with another. We wanted to refer a number of questions to the Government, or to some of the regulators, so that they would try to be answered. Why, for example, are prices being shot in Spain, but not in other countries that must also go to international markets to buy gas and CO2 emissions allowances? Have we considered whether there is real competition between electricity-producing technologies or is it just apparent? All producers tend to have production in all technologies and play with the marginalist market according to their interests. The final price is determined for all technologies by the input of natural gas plants, when their actual input is around 8 %.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u9	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u10	Finally, with regard to the conditions they introduce for renewables competitions, we believe that they can be a step forward, but it will depend on how those paragraphs are implemented.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u12	For us, maintaining the centre of Andorra and developing a strategic project is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are already on the other side of the table! They're on the other side of the table and what happened? Neither are the companies shaking or the rich very worried. Those who are concerned are all citizens, who are paying the most expensive light ever paid in Spain. And that's on the other side of the table. But, yes, if you ask, if you ask the government to account for why the most expensive light is being paid and why there is no one who understands that bill - you have two things and seventy-seven thousand concepts come - then they tell you: It's the'matter', friend, it's the'matter'! And that's what's happening in Spain today. [[Applauds]] Yeah, don't look at me like that. That's what's going on! But they don't care, because they solve everything with posture. And, in the end, the chief of the posture is the head of the government, who changes the government and, instead of taking advantage to throw half that he is doing nothing, what he does is changing some faces to end up saying the same thing and to question the institutional whole of Spain. The road map? Same one! Changes in the government? To wash the head of government's face. And what are we having here? A disproportionate rise in light. There is no solution, many things are said, what was said for the future is hidden and, in the end, citizens have the most expensive bill they have ever paid. However, we changed the subject. So, going out here and saying that Cuba is not a dictatorship and that they're going to do other things seems like everyone has to be happy. Of course, today, after the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it is normal for the Spaniards to be already on days of reflection for another electoral process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u15	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, in one minute: third final disposition that you have reported in relation to the Canary Islands. I have to make a first statement: the Canary Islands are not going to change economic resources for rights. We believe that the Canary Islands has the right to be granted the REF in an integral way and we believe that there is a unilateral change that we cannot accept as is in this third final provision. I also have to tell you that we have reached an agreement with the Minister of Finance before yesterday that this matter will be corrected immediately through the corresponding rule which recognises that the canary differential must be 80 % and the ceiling for audiovisual deductions must be 18 million euros. Therefore, we have to vote against this royal decree-law. This is a matter that needs to be resolved, because not only are the key sectors in the Canary Islands, but it is the whole of the Canary Islands Parliament that is against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u17	Mr. Quevedo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u18	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u19	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you're going to despise the Canary Islands again. First. You said that some actors in the Canary Islands are against this modification of the REF. I remind you that some actors are one hundred percent of the Canary Islands Parliament, because their party united with Podemos and all political forces voted against this modification of the REF. Second. They did not wish to read the third additional provision of the Constitution, which reads as follows: 'The modification of the economic and fiscal regime of the Canary Islands will require a prior report from the autonomous community or, where appropriate, from the provisional autonomous body'. A record that runs counter to the third additional provision of the Spanish Constitution is being put to the vote. It is also violating the new statute of autonomy. The economic and fiscal regime is being violated. The rights of the Canaries are being violated once again by a socialist government and its supporters. In some cases, the Constitution is violated in order to undermine the rights recognized...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u21	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u22	... and others twist the Constitution to give rights to communities that do not have them. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u24	Thank you, President. We agree that the bill for light must be lowered and even that it is right to have reduced VAT applied to it as a basic supply. But of all the measures that a left-wing government could take, this is certainly the least left-wing, because with this measure it is estimated that the state will cease to enter between 1000 and 13 billion euros and yet the powerful oligopolistic companies in the energy sector continue to accumulate huge profits, even greater than this amount that will cease to enter the state. In the financial year 2020, for example, Iberdrola had €3610 million in profits and Endesa, €1394 million in profits. So the central problem is that with a basic supply no company should be working, neither with water nor with electricity nor with gas. You have cited many reasons why the bill for light is being increased and you have even come to talk about Russia, China and the movements that are taking place in the markets. It is not necessary to go to Russia or China to know who is responsible for the high price of light. It is better to go to the headquarters of these companies of IBEX, Endesa, Iberdrola or Naturgy, because you cannot divert the responsibility they have in this. Its only priority is to distribute dividends among its shareholders and, therefore, if the price of light goes up, for them it will be much better. The problem is, therefore, that energy is not public, that it belongs to these oligopolies and that the aim of these companies is not to provide a public service. Any left-wing government should begin by attacking this oligopoly and by turning energy and basic supplies into a public good.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Perhaps chance has wanted this debate to take place just today, when we reach the peak of the energy price. But chance could also have been given a week or two ago, because the unfortunate reality is that energy continues to rise inexorably and I would say cruel to the pockets of the most disadvantaged, while we see that electrics continue to maintain their profit margins. One thing is enough: in the first fifteen days of this month of July, before this peak of energy peak, citizens were already going to pay about EUR 21.68 more than in 2020. The reduction that is being discussed here today - the reduction in VAT plus the reduction in generation costs, which nobody forgets - implies 8 or 10 euros of reduction in the price of light. Then, citizens will pay about 12 or 13 euros more than last year for the price of electricity. The measures you are proposing, as you have already pointed out, are insufficient measures, are patches, are palliative care for a much more painful and much harsher reality. In the end, proposing to lower VAT from 21 % to 10 % means that the state collects EUR 1 billion less per year that we will have to compensate in some way and that we will have to ensure that they do not affect all the social services and public services that the state offers. But there is more, the 7 to 0% reduction on generation costs - more generosity cannot be asked of this government supposedly from the left - means that the state stops entering 970 million euros a year; money that saves electricity, not citizens citizens, and that loses the state and, ultimately, the entire citizenship for public policies. There's a lot of talk about the price of energy and that incomprehensible gallimatías in which the electric bill becomes. It should also be said that of the total invoice price, only 24 % corresponds to the price of energy. It should also be said that between 50 % and 55 % corresponds to something called transport and distribution network costs and annuities of the tariff deficit. Do you know who benefits from more than half the price of every citizen's bill? The electrics. Only 10 or 15 % is tax-related, and that is where this government has decided to act instead of doing so on the larger percentage, on the larger part of the invoice price related to the costs of transport networks, distribution and annualities of the tariff deficit. We are always told that all this is done because there is a pool, the pool of energy, which determines prices. They have already said this: if all or many countries are forced to go to the international market and not all decide to increase tariffs in the way they are done in the Spanish State, we will have to look at why here, in the Spanish State, they do increase. And what do we find there? With the famous energy pool. And what is the pool of energy? For me to understand better, they are the energy generators and marketers. And who are these power generators and marketers? The electric oligopoly: Endesa, Iberdrola, Naturgas and EDP; above all, Endesa and Iberdrola, which control more than 70% of the electricity market. Has this Government decided to put an end to this position of dominance and price determination for citizens on the part of electricians? No, no, Do you decide to demand more? Neither. We have been asking from this rostrum for more than a year that the government put some kind of tax or taxation that would allow those companies that have benefited more, even during the pandemic times we are living, to pay more. What has been the response of this Government? Don't do anything until people who are no longer supposed to be left-wing pass through the left-wing government posing things like this. It will be necessary to recall again the benefits that these big companies of the Spanish electric oligopoly have had in 2020: Iberdrola, 3610,7 million euros; Endesa, 1394 million euros; Naturg Y, 490 million euros; and EDP, 556 million euros. Someone will wonder why we always charge against oligopolies and why we sow doubt about oligopolies. Well, because we have reasons and justice gives us reason. Because Iberdrola has been condemned for something she did to alter market prices and to manipulate the energy price between November and December 2012; it is true that she was condemned to 25 million euros, but the impact of what she did meant to her in the order of 105 million euros, then it even made her profitable to do so and to let them understand. Because Naturg Y was also convicted with 19.5 million euros because it presented high prices between October 2016 and January 2017. And because Endesa was also sentenced to €5.8 million for doing the same also between October and January 2017. All these companies with scandalous profits sometimes alter market prices and the only thing they find are sanctions that are far below the benefit they have obtained with that alteration. That's how hard it is to be able to tackle this reality. We have repeatedly asked them to sanction more and to collect more; to collect more from those who have more and, in this case, the electrics, because they have benefited from a privileged situation and I would say that they predominate in the market itself. We do not understand why they still do not intervene and do not even envisage the creation of a public body. They are already considering public entities in different autonomys, even in Asturias. Perhaps Mr Martínez Oblanca can have something to say there or he has something to paint in that possible Asturian energy. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca from the seat makes negative signs with his finger]] In any case, if you do nothing, you will continue to feed the idea of the myth of Plato's cave: you have to look back on reality so that we see shadows that project a reality that is not and what tells us that the price of electricity must undoubtedly continue to rise because there is nothing to do and because all are external factors. But, moreover, a logical mistrust of political power will continue to be sown in the citizenry, because they will see that the rotating doors - those that would take me a whole intervention to report here with names and surnames of illustrious people of Spanish politics who are now living in the body of king or in the talk of king on the boards of administration of the electrics - still have much to do with the position of any government. If energy is a strategic sector and electricity is a common good, public intervention becomes not only a possibility, but an obligation, especially when energy poverty exists. I'll finish with a question. These days of ephemerides, also of the fascist uprising of 1936, we have heard some historian from three to four, a certain Camuñas, say what he has said. I want to bring Paul Preston.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u27	Mr. Matute, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u28	Paul Preston said that at that time the mistake was made of thinking that if the rhythms of change were to pause the reaction would calm down, but that did not happen and the reality we suffered for forty years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u30	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. Today a decree is brought here for validation whose main objective, as has been said, is to minimize the impact of the rise in the price of electricity; it is a decree that contains another series of measures, but I will only refer to this one. Yesterday the pool, as has been well said, has set another record - if you can call it that -: the most expensive price in history. And it's going to happen again today. The fact is that the price of electricity, rather than falling, is being increased over the past year, mainly by a combination of factors: rising gas prices, rising emission allowance quotations, increased demand from Asia, supply shortages, very low levels of gas storage and a lower contribution from renewables to the mix. But it must also be made clear that only 20% of production is affected by the price of CO2 and gas, and yet they have continued to lower the opportunity cost for all technologies. Thus, the prices that are fixed on the market, as has been said, only affect part of the invoice, because it includes another set of concepts that should perhaps also be attacked. If we add to this the change in the structure of the tariff for which it is necessary to re-adjust consumption to consume at the lowest price schedules, we have the perfect storm. It must also be said that this new tariff structure designed by the CNMC has nothing to do with either CO2 or gas, but it has been able to contribute in some way to this rise if responsible consumption is not achieved, although sometimes there are also companies that cannot do so because of their business hours. The truth is that it must be recognized that the transition has a cost and that as long as renewables are not fully developed and intermittent, other technologies will be needed, and this will have to be paid for. And it is that wind and photovoltaics today should grow around 35% more to neutralize that impact of gas on the price of light. The truth is that there is neither a green taxation nor a reform of the labour market nor, much less, a strategic energy policy with long lights that could perhaps allow us to have a much tighter electricity price. The only thing that has happened so far has been regulation: that there is a problem, I put a patch on it; that there is another problem, I put another patch on it, and so on since 1998. Today we go back to the same, we go back to a new patch. And you know why? Because of social pressure, because there was a promise of a fall in the light and it turns out that it has been greatly increased. This has been the main news in the media and, in addition, the cause of jokes and memes on all social networks. It should be recalled that the Government was initially refusing to implement the measures contained in this royal decree today with endless justifications. We also understand that today there is still scope, because this rising price of electricity also means that the State collects both taxes and the auction of CO2 emissions and, therefore, above what is foreseen in the State's General Budgets. We understand that the situation of high prices is creating tension in the citizenry and that temporary measures that have an effect on the invoice are necessary to contain prices. This is achieved today and immediately only through the taxes paid on the electricity bill; as has been said here, the production tax and the reduction of VAT. This is a temporary abolition of the production tax that electrics have and that then impact on consumers, but that does not appear on the invoice. It will therefore be necessary to ensure that the electricity companies to which this suspension applies do not subsequently pass on it to their customers. The fall in VAT is true that it has eased the bill, but we are also seeing that the market is already absorbing these tax cuts by so high prices. Although these tax reductions will ease the bill, the fact is - and we must also say - that, in the case of VAT, the problem lies in the taxable basis to which we apply the taxes, which is nothing other than the price of electricity. Therefore, what will have to be attacked is definitely that basis, the price of electricity. What is going to happen in September, when the generation tax suspension ends, or in December, when the VAT reduction no longer applies? The reality is that the future of the long-term energy market promises megawatt/hour prices that in August will be around 93 euros; in September, the 96 euros; in October, the 100 euros, and so on, until February 2022, where we talk about a price of 86 euros. What is going to happen, then, when those measures fall, those tax breaks? Because the truth is, it looks like there's expensive electricity for a while. It is true that we have also heard some that there are other measures: the sustainability fund or the deduction of pay. Yes, but they are measures that are not yet in force and, as I said earlier, they are part of the regulation. We think we need to go further with long lights. As I said, in some cases these measures may lower the price of light for consumers, but perhaps in turn other invoices, such as gas, or the price of butane candy, will be increased. We have also heard here on the subject of the marginalist market, but this market is the same in the 20 countries of Europe. In Europe this system exists and works. It is true that prices would really be similar to those here, but what happens is that, except in Spain and Italy, in the rest of Europe this market is used for scrap. That is, most of the energy is sold in the long term and only a very small part enters this pool, in this marginalist market. Here it's the other way around, 100 percent goes through this market. Therefore, we may need to change the application of this system in our invoices or develop this bilateral procurement market in a much more ambitious way to really put it at the centre of demand. Basically, the measures of this decree are for domestic consumers and people in vulnerable situations and not so much for SMEs and self-employed people. Many SMEs and self-employed people, whose consumption is made at times of higher price according to the new tariff structure, are almost only going to benefit from the elimination of the tax on the generation until September, since in many cases the VAT reduction will apply to them because in the beginning their consumption is greater than 10 kilowatts/hour; and, if it is, its effect would be neutral, because we must not forget that they will first pay and then deduct it from the IRPF and that does not solve the rise in the price of light. Europe places demand at the centre of energy regulation and this means distinguishing, within the demand for electricity, that which is intended to be a productive process and that which is used for personal consumption. Today we will vote in favour of these measures despite being short-term, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, something will ease the bill. But, really, let's put on the long lights, because this is going long. The measures of the decree are temporary and we cannot rely on a possible drop in demand or on climatology to stop this spiral of high prices. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u32	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the headline we came up with this morning is that the Spanish consumer will pay today the most expensive price of light in Europe, and we want to know why we are the most paying for light in Europe. Today the light returns to a peak of history. When the economic crisis caused by the pandemic continues to show its hardest side to thousands of Spaniards and when the heat waves hit our country, electricity is more expensive than ever. This cannot be covered either by changes in the government's portfolio or by the debate about whether Spain is'matter' or homeland. Instead of addressing the great challenges of this country - I refer to the tests - the Executive is dedicated to opening up past, outdated or'directly non-existent debates in society, to see if this is the way the news talks about something else. I am sorry to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that your propaganda machine does not reach the bill of light. Reality is clumsy and always imposes itself. Perhaps they could send a copy of the Family Resistance Manual, because they do need to resist, because they can no longer pay for the bill of light. Naturally, in Citizens we support the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity, not because we are being asked now, but because we have been proposing for months, when it could have had a better effect on Spanish citizens. This measure had to have been adopted since the pandemic began or, at least, since January, after Filomena, since we have been asking for it. Then the government told us that it was impossible, even if it was a bad idea, that Europe would not leave us: lies and more lies. Until the pardons came and, to cover up the infamy, it was worth anything. Similarly, we also support the temporary suspension of the tax on the value of electricity production. Its total suppression, as some other party has asked, is unsustainable, but in a time of economic crisis we must use all the fiscal space we can to relieve families, self-employed people and businesses. Citizens have said in this very rostrum that these reforms when they arrive late become a bad patch; a patch that does not go in line with what Spanish families need, because what they need are real measures that lower the bill. When you come here, bring me real measures that lower the bill, but really lower it. We need to develop a comprehensive energy tax reform that addresses not only the value of electricity production tax, but also VAT, electricity tax and that wide variety of rates on our bill. In this regard, the president herself of the National Commission on Markets and Competition has said - as citizens do - that a tax reform in the electricity sector must be addressed as a matter of priority and with ambition. An audit of the costs of the system is also needed to ensure that no one is taking advantage of the importance of energy to take more money away from consumers than is necessary. This Government and its predecessors have made a glaring mistake: treating citizens as children. The Socialist Party, Podemos or More Madrid seek an energy transition at all costs, whatever it costs, allowing the most vulnerable to pay for it and even paying for poverty. Others, such as VOX and sometimes the People's Party, deny the need to fight climate change and change our model, bringing future generations to a worse world. We in Citizens are the only party truly committed to the fight against climate change, but without leaving anyone behind, with a model of growth and not of impoverishment, of sustainability and not of selfishness. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, even if it is not the main subject of this royal decree-law, to mention the reform of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands. We always find ourselves some surprise in the royal decree-laws of this government and this is the surprise of the Royal Decree-law 12/2021. I'll be clear: it's a shame. The REF is meridian in this matter. The discount limit should be EUR 18 million and not the mere EUR 12.4 million imposed by the Government now. Socialist Party and Podemos are emptying the economic and fiscal regime from the back door, as they are used to, without respecting either the legal predictions of this or the slightest institutional loyalty. The Government does not take the word governance out of its mouth, but, when it comes to the truth, the institutions of self-government do not care the least. I ask you a question, Minister: is it necessary, in order to respect the autonomous communities and their laws, that they threaten independence? Because it seems that this is the only way they respond to the autonomous communities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must address - and we encourage you to do so with seriousness and rigour - the challenges facing our society, because they need a serious government and, so far, we have not seen it. They focused on fixing the lives of only nine criminals, but there are 47 million Spaniards who saw their bills grow and today set historical peaks. Today, again, we beat another record, that of electricity, but also another record, the record of its laxity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u34	Thank you very much, President. Today we are debating an infamous record, the most expensive light in history, the most expensive light in Europe. Right now, today, the light is worth three times what it cost last year at the same time. I ask myself a few questions. Is the swamp water more expensive? Is the sun more expensive than last year? Is the wind more expensive than last year? Even, is uranium more expensive than last year? No, no, And yet, we are paying the most expensive light just because one of the components that produce electricity, gas, has risen. And why - and this is a question - do we pay all the light at gas price? It is a question that is being asked today by all citizens and an answer must be given. Citizens have the feeling that they pay a squid bite at the price of Iranian caviar. The answer is clear: electric benefits this first quarter, $19 billion; $19 billion in full light escalation. And the people say, "Why don't we pay for the squid mouthpiece what the squid mouthpiece costs and the Iberian mouthpiece what the Iberian mouthpiece costs?" Why don't we pay for the light at the cost of what hydropower costs? Why don't we pay for the light at the cost of nuclear, photovoltaic or wind power? Why are we paying for this? I believe, sincerely - I do not say it at all - that the government is doing little. I think they're patches and I think we have to end once and for all with this thyme, with this scam. We have to do an audit of what it costs to produce the light and pay for what it costs to produce the light. What happens, in short, in the normal economy. Let's pay for what's really worth. The corporal. Today, in Gredos, the People's Party meets. I hope the cold refreshes Mr. Married's ideas. Last week the whole right was telling us that Cuba is a dictatorship. Is Cuba a dictatorship? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u36	Was Francois Spain a dictatorship? Was there a coup d'état on July 18, 1936? Yes or no? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Yes!]] Be clear, see if Gredos' cold refreshes your ideas. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u37	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Quiet, please. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u38	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have to teach anyone lessons, but one, when it has been a few years in this House, realizes that the price of the electric bill ends up being the bold weapon for the government in office. You have already seen it, Madam Vice-President, even pardons have to do with the measures that are being taken; you are going to listen to it from the spokesman of the People's Party and we have heard it these days, and so things are not resolved. I understand that from the People's Party we are told: do you not remember what Mr Pedro Sánchez or his colleague Mr Garzón was doing, who now in the government says that he is very concerned but does not take any further steps? This is the problem, which in order to solve an issue that is crucial and structural it must be done with a certain political calm and with a certain political consensus, which is currently very difficult to perceive. In any case, we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. In fact, it is not the definitive solution. We agree with his diagnosis essentially in the short-term situation. It is true that from the electric bill the cost of energy is about a third. Your explanations for this third part are absolutely true, we agree. We even agreed that they were unforeseeable. We have already proposed in January a very similar action to that which is being proposed today, with some difference. We do not propose a reduction in short-term VAT, depending on the price or the installed power, but we do so for all dwellings that are habitual dwellings, in which each of the citizens resides, and for the second or other residences we do not propose a reduction in VAT, and we do so on a structural basis. In any case, since this reduction in VAT is not the definitive solution until 31 December and the exemption from the electricity tax, the famous 7%, during the third quarter, seems to us that they should now apply and we will therefore vote in favour. We are also going to vote in favour of the bill, because we sense that some of these measures, in the temporary scenario they arise, will be insufficient with the evolution of the market. That is why we are going to ask for it to be treated as a bill and we will then also ask the Bureau not to delay this procedure for a long time, because then it would be pointless to table some of these amendments. Yes, it is true that what is needed - I said it a moment ago - is a calm debate that is not at the moment of maximum pressure on the electricity market as to how to regulate and how to finance the electricity bill. I say this because some of the elements that currently shape the electricity bill may have to be financed differently and, surely, as someone has said, companies will have a share of responsibility, but not all. Therefore, this debate should be dealt with calmly, calmly; if so, they will always count on our support. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u40	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, electricity is a common, basic and essential good. So far, everybody agrees. Electricity is a common, basic and essential good and, as such, it was a scandal that until a few days ago was taxed, as if it were a luxury service, with a type of 21 %. In this they do not all agree that this type has been maintained by so many governments for so many years. Whatever the case, we welcome the end of this abuse and through this royal decree-law the electricity is recorded as a fundamental basic good, which is what it is, at 10%. However, we must stress that it is not gold that shines. This reduction in VAT is conditioned by several factors, as has already been said: it is a temporary measure, only until 31 December, for powers contracted below 10 kilowatts, except for social bond collectors, and it is a measure that will apply whenever the price exceeds EUR 45 per megawatt hour. Bad day to come here to propose it, when we assume a record of 20 years: 102 euros. We believe that there are too many accumulations but for such a logical measure. We will demand that it be a permanent measure for all those consumers with powers contracted below 10 kilowatts, and we will also demand it for SMEs with powers below 15 kilowatts. Once again, this SME government is forgotten. Many SMEs are excluded by limiting them to 10 kilowatts and, as indicated, without considering their consumption schedules. In these terms, we amend the legislative drafts which are already in the process of amending the text, by legislative economy and in case the Bureau were asked to maintain deadlines for amendments for 12 or 14 months. Therefore, we will not vote for it to be treated as a bill. For Esquerra the VAT of 10% must be maintained until, once and for all, the laws that eliminate the overpayments received by the big electrics are passed. We urge them, Minister. Rock'n'roll, minister, or we'll go from patch to patch of head to Iberian yellow vests, with the right screaming like mariachis. [[Applauds]] Those who like to sharpen the pencil in their considerations on the General Budgets of the State remember that the government collects from the electric bill between eight thousand and ten billion euros. We must consider that the rising price of electricity, which is also driven by the high price of CO2, also represents an extra collection for the State, both in taxes and in the auction of CO2 emissions, placing revenues well above what is foreseen in the State's General Budgets. We therefore understand that this measure is very logical, budget-sustainable, necessary and now we must start working to ensure its permanence. However, Esquerra wants to make it very clear that tax reduction measures, such as the reduction of VAT or 7% of generation, are necessary measures but do not attack the root cause of the problem, since they do not reduce the high wages received by nuclear plants and large hydroelectric plants. These measures alone are patches and patches on patches. The energy transition cannot and should not be made on the basis of a reduction in taxes; the real energy transition is to put an end to the over-rewards of electricity and to make the distributors of fossil energy products also contribute financially to the decarbonisation of the economy, giving clear and sustained signals to the market. That path passes - and you know it, Minister - by the determined impulse of the kilowatt hour zero of the effective energy communities to the European way and by legislating by giving support and framework to the distributed generation. It can only be achieved with a profound reform of the electricity market, which you are obliged to do by the final provision of the tenth of the Climate Change Act - of which Esquerra dishonor - and for which there are only ten months left. Delendum is a monopoly, Minister. And happy summer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As you have said repeatedly, we hold this debate on the day when the price of light reaches its historical peaks, which urges us to act swiftly. In addition, the indicators warn that high prices will continue in the coming months. In the current situation of rising light prices there is a factor that has great influence, which is the rise of gas due to the increased demand resulting from the global economic revival following the KOVID-19 crisis. The bad news is that we got out of the crisis just as we got in, with a high dependence on fossil fuels. But, ladies and gentlemen, the price of electricity generated and its increases are not primarily a consequence of decarbonisation, as some would like to make believe, but rather of the structure and design of the market which, to date, has not achieved the promised objective of liberalisation promised to us as it is not a competitive market, since we are faced with an oligopoly. We're going to analyze this because we think it's important. Firstly, it should be stressed that we are experiencing the consequences of the liberalisation of the sector. It was in the Electricity Act of 1997 - in the days of the Aznar Government and the People's Party - that the European directive was adapted to the Spanish one, which launched the process of liberalisation for the market - liberal lords, the market, in theory, more efficient in allocating scarce resources - that it will send price signals and not the government that, as until then, will fix them, according to Royal Decree 1538/1987, by which the electricity tariff was then determined. But we are not facing a competitive market, and that is the mistake, but an oligopoly. Nuclear power, by more than 90%, hydraulics, by almost 90%, and combined gas cycles, by more than 75%, are in the hands of three single companies. This high concentration gives these operators market power, the ability to influence prices, at least at certain times of the day, and certain weather conditions, and that is where the failure of the system lies. There are those who say: there is nothing we can do. We, in Unity We can, believe that yes, we believe that the State can act and must do so urgently. In fact, some measures are being put in place and we urge you, Minister, to speed up: the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, which is undoubtedly essential to reduce the price of light by more than 15%; we believe that the proposal for a preliminary draft law must be speeded up urgently to put an end to the fallen benefits of the oligopoly sky, and to put peaks on the market for amortized technologies, such as nuclear and hydraulic technologies. But we, in Unidad Podemos, think that we should go further, creating a new actor that intervenes in the market of electricity production; in this sense, it should be remembered that they have won or are close to doing so by reaching the seventy-five years numerous concessions of operation of hydraulic plants that represent a significant percentage of the total hydroelectric power installed. The new award is an ideal opportunity to rethink the use of energy generated in terms that are more favourable to the system and consumers. This public undertaking would be responsible for the management of the hydraulic public domain as far as electricity production is concerned, assuming the concessions once they have been extinguished, regardless of the cause involved, in addition to possible initiatives that the same company is undertaking for the creation of new electricity generation plants based on renewable energy and its role as an energy trading company. Taking into account that, according to data from the Electricity Network, around 12% of electricity in 2020 was generated by hydraulic power, the possibility of direct management of the hydroelectric fleet through a public undertaking could make it possible to influence the effective reduction of the electricity bill for households and companies. As I say, the market is currently dominated by a private oligopoly, which makes it difficult to achieve the objectives set on the green horizon. To achieve this, a new institutional and productive framework backed by democratic control is needed. In the case of the electric public undertaking proposed to be set up, it will be an essential agent in undertaking this transformation; thus, this undertaking will play an active role in the electrical production of the hydraulic public domain, in the installation of renewable energies and in the distribution and marketing work. Given the importance of these aims, it will also be responsible for implementing a reduction in the bill for light and ensuring that no one suffers from energy poverty; at the same time, it will work in a coordinated manner with municipal public enterprises that have been created or that can be created for the marketing and management of energy itself. Ladies and gentlemen, there are alternatives. Ladies and gentlemen, there are possibilities. We must take control of the energy again. We must take control of the energy market. It's not a matter of fate. We can do it, we can do it, and we have tools to do it. It is simply about perfecting that oligopolistic market that you have left us, that oligopolistic market that now decides how much it goes up and how much it goes down and what are the benefits of private companies. We create a public enterprise; we create a public enterprise that participates and perfects what you want, that controls the energy market, because right now, do you want me to tell you something? In most countries in our environment, public or publicly-owned enterprises have an essential stake in the energy market. That is why the situation in Spain is different from that in other countries, and that is why the price here is higher and more uncontrolled than in other countries, because there is not the slightest public intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and must not abandon that essential market, the control of that element, of that very important good which is for all energy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u43	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u44	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister, good morning. With his Government, millions of Spanish households today live in fear. They're afraid to turn on the light switch, they're afraid to put on a washing machine, they're afraid to iron. They live with fear because they can't relieve the suffocating evenings and nights of July by putting a fan, I won't even mention the air conditioning. And they are afraid, minister, because with your Government these daily acts in Spanish homes have become an act of genuine luxury. The same government that forced thousands of families in Spain to choose between buying milk or masks is the one that today imposed energy terror in Spain, but you continue with your propaganda and your lies, you, who now call themselves the government of recovery - I am speaking to you, minister -; you, who now call yourselves the government of recovery. But let's go with reality, minister of energy ruin. Today, July 21, it turns out that the light reaches its historical milestone, the highest price in the history of Spain: 106 euros per megawatt/hour. And what does our minister, who appears today before this House, who represents national sovereignty, who represents the Spaniards? He repeats that this Government, his Government, will not leave anyone behind. [[Applauds]] This historical price assumes that an average consumer will pay the bill for light 35% more expensive than in the same month of July last year. This historical price assumes that an average consumer in Spain will pay an average of 85 euros for the bill of light in July. Minister, I know this for you, for the caviar left, does not pose any problems. But, tell me, minister, do you know how many pensioners there are in Spain today? Almost 10 million, with an average age of 72 years, of which the largest group is living with a pension that does not reach 700 euros per month. Our elders will be able to give up putting on television, will be able to give up putting on the fan, will be able, even with their government of recovery, to wash the clothes again by hand, but what do we do with the sick in Spain who need to be connected 24 hours to an electrical apparatus to live, minister of energy ruin? [[Applauds]] It is very simple because, with the recovery government, they have a way out: euthanasia. With his Government, the bill for light has been reaching historic peaks over the past few months at very complicated times, such as the sluggish Filomena or the current heat wave, to the point that today almost 25% of Spanish households are at risk of energy poverty with the recovery government. It turns out that between April 2018 and 2020 Spanish households that have had to host the thermal bond have tripled. At present, 1,311,662 Spanish households are in this situation, by the way, more than 300,000 are large families. Minister, minister of energy ruin, do you remember what they said when you were in opposition? And we thank the Members of Unity We can, because at least five of them are accompanying us today at this sitting; the rest must already be on vacation. Let's go with it. Minister of Consumer Affairs, Alberto Garzón, December 2017: Thousands of families will not be able to keep their homes at adequate temperatures, which will have a serious impact on the health of those who have less. No decent Government should tolerate it. Minister of Equality, Irene Montero, February 2017: We can never allow a rise in light. Up the light is living behind the backs of the working class. We'll never do it. Rajoy, quit! Pedro Sánchez, December 2017: Rajoy's government's energy policy impoverishes the country. The receipt of the light is increased by 4,6 % as of December. Now we've got 35 percent. And what does the government do about the recovery, those who promised to nationalize the electrics, to repeal the reform of the Rajoy electricity market, those who promised to create a large public energy company? Today they mention it again as if it were not the ones who govern, and, in the case of the PSOE, since 2018. [[Applauds]] They bring us a bodrio of royal decree-law that before it has already been validated has proved its ineffectiveness, because it turns out that it is in force since last June and that from the historical rise of the price of light has already been eaten completely the tax reductions that are incorporated in it, an inefficient, temporary and limited reduction of the VAT, which, at last and after successive lies, decided to apply to the electric bill. Of course, minister, VOX will not support you with our vote in favour, but we will not oppose it either, because we are next to the Spanish, especially the thousands of Spanish families for whom a reduction in the electricity bill of 4 euros can make the difference between eating or not eating one day. VOX calls for a definitive, non-temporary reduction in VAT, applying 4 % and, of course, not linked to any power because it discriminates between the Spanish. VOX calls for the definitive abolition of the tax on generation, on production. VOX calls for the abolition of the excise duty on electricity by the double taxation it entails. But, above all and unlike any parliamentary group in this House, VOX calls for a complete change in the system to achieve the energy sovereignty of our nation and the universal access of the Spaniards to a supply of basic necessity such as light. [[applause]] It is shown by his royal decree-law that, as much as they change ministers or throw Mr.Iván Redondo out of the ravine, they continue to be the same government, the same government of ruin and lies! Minister of Energy Ruin, tell me how it feels to be part of a government that has squandered, has unconstitutionally kidnapped 47 million Spaniards - not in solitary!, because they had the complicity of each and every one of the Members who in this House supported, either with their favorable vote or with their abstention, an undercover state of emergency -, as VOX denounced so soon it was found, three days after the state of alarm was extended for the first time, that the government of ruin had lied to us representatives of national sovereignty and locked us in unconstitutionally!, making, minister of energy ruin, of its will the supreme law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u45	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u46	Only VOX appealed it to the Constitutional Court because in VOX we are next to the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we vote for the validation of a royal decree-law that responds to a social and political cry. The Government has been the last to know that we have a price of light that is prohibitive, that today has marked a new historical record and that, as we have been announcing, it represents a great economic failure for families. Perhaps for some income - said in his own words - it is a matter of eurillos, but for Spain and the Spanish, that Spain that you are leaving us, that of the sinking of GDP, Spain of 4,700,000 people who want to work and cannot, Spain of the social majority that you cheat and ruin, or Spain where four out of ten unemployed - that is, more than a million people - does not charge any kind of benefit, for them the price of light is one of their great concerns. You, Madam Vice-President, have an ideological agenda and do not want to know anything about the problem of the Spanish. You isolate yourself and in the matter of energy is a calamity. Never, in recent years, the price of light was so high for so long. You've hit the record and you're going to keep fighting, even though you promised us that the price of light was going to fall. Since you're a minister, you've proven you don't know the electricity market. When months ago the People's Party brought in an urgent and necessary shock measure to lower the price of light, to lower the electricity bill, you refused, and that has cost the Spaniards dearly. We knew he was cheating on us. You said in January that the rise in the price of light was short-term and with limited impact, but we knew it was a lie. Today, without going any further, we have the price of the most expensive light in history and not as something short-term, but permanent in the short and medium term. It has shown that it does not know about energy policy, because without resolving the problems of market volatility, among others, the CNMC, under its guidelines, has abruptly resolved the transposition of a European directive to eliminate the maximum amounts of the wholesale market. What explanation will give us if the light ever reaches 300, 400 or 500 euros? And he has shown that his regulatory decisions cost the Spaniards money. Its electric fare is turning us to the Spanish, it is impoverishing them and it is a crushing cost to consumers. That's why I hope you go back, review and reverse that situation to its initial state. Madam Minister, it is your responsibility to have an orderly, responsible, competitive energy transition, without generating stress in the cost structure of companies, with certainty for the self-employed, for SMEs, for industry and for consumers, and without leaving anyone behind. If today we have the prices that we have, those electricity prices so prohibitive, it shows two things: that you do not know how to implement an adequate energy transition and that your energy transition, yours, is erratic, is agile and expensive for the Spaniards. Mrs Martínez, I say to you that the People's Party is strongly committed to the fight against climate change, but the energy transition posed by the Government is a calamity and a disaster, and the measures it brings today have a limited effect, do not tackle the problem and have a component of deception. [[applause]] That's why I'm going to give you the reasons why I know you don't want to lower the price of light. First, you do nothing to limit the volatility of the wholesale market and your signals of managing the market exclusively with demand are a mistake. We do not understand why you have brought before the electric bill tariff that the auction of the cogeneration, for example; because with your tariff you wanted the Spaniards to put the washing machine at night, that the cafes that serve breakfasts work at dawn, that the autonomous that works at peak hours stopped working, but it is that that cannot be. And today the Spaniards have to suffer, in addition to their whimsical tariff, a price of disorbited light. Mrs Ribera, if you believe that only with demand management will you solve the problems of market volatility and prices, it is because you do not understand the electricity market in Spain. But when you have the opportunity to take appropriate measures, you don't take them. It doesn't give solutions to the electro-intensive industry. When there are stable generation capacity mechanisms, which generate employment, which are necessary for industry, which bring wealth to our country, such as cogeneration, delay, delay and delay the auction. I ask you from here, Minister: once and for all, bring the auction to cogeneration before the industry is brought to a limit, with closure and thousands of redundancies. Or is that what you're trying to do? Secondly, the measures it brings in the royal decree-law are a patch, and they are more a desperate measure than the measures that someone who is supposed to know what to do. Because the reduction in VAT does not apply to most self-employed people, SMEs or industry, for two reasons: because those responsible for 47 % of the electricity consumption in Spain - i.e. 880,000 SMEs and 25 000 industries - have more than 10 kilowatts; but, above all, because VAT deductible. And do you know who the VAT rebate does not apply to either? To 810 350 families that have more than 10 kilowatts contracted, which are precisely those who have listened to you, those who have an electric car and those who have all their electrical consumptions. Nor does the VAT rebate apply to them. Thirdly, with regard to Article 2, you do not abolish the tax on electricity generation, which is what the People's Party has been demanding, but suspends it for three months, and this is because, according to the progress of the liquidation of the budgets as of May 2021 - the last published - it was already collected twice as much as it was last year on the same dates. They are going to make cash and the consumer throughout the year will not expect to save a single cent of euro on the bill for light. Do you know what this is called? To deceive people, to deceive the social majority because it approves the suspension of a tax when they have already collected it. Pure and hard deception. And fourthly, Minister, you are carrying out a covert reform of our energy system, a reform that is inefficient, unilateral, untransparent and with very little consensus; you are damaging the interests of industry; you have promoted the National Sustainability Fund for the Electrical System, and you have promoted the wind tax. These decisions of yours will assume that the prices of heating, petrol, transport will increase, that the shopping basket will be increased and that the Spanish will become poorer, and that the wind industry in Spain will end. As you are a specialist in blaming all your problems - those that generate or those that do not solve - to others, when this happens - because it will happen -, take responsibility and do not blame the CO2 - that you especially want it to be high -, do not blame the international markets or do not blame the temperatures in Oregon, as we have heard you recently; take responsibility for your own chaos and do not prepare the ground to justify the next increase of all energy vectors. As usual, the royal decrees bring various very varied matters and therefore I do not want the third final provision - although it has already been remembered - of this royal decree-law, concerning the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, to go unnoticed. Minister, they use the assets of all the canaries for their own survival when the incentives of the Economic and Fiscal Regime and the Statute of Autonomy are untouchable, and a decent government would convene the bilateral commission and leave this matter settled instead of using the consolidated rights...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u49	Mr. Requena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u50	...of the Canarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Requena. For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government. Over the past year and a half, we have experienced very complex, very difficult situations in our country. We are living a pandemic that is being devastating on a global scale and the Government has put all its efforts into the struggle to get us out of it. Even now, in this new wave which is hitting most countries and which forces us to remain very cautious in our day-to-day life, Spain is one of the fastest countries moving towards the solution through vaccination. And as we struggle to put an end to this enormous crisis, the Government has, during this time, deployed an unprecedented social shield with measures that have served to alleviate the situation quickly and leaving no one behind, Mrs Olona, protecting the most vulnerable. Mrs Olona, during your speeches, you seem like a radio announcement of alarm installers, trying to cause panic among the population. Until now they had managed to get from the bill of light to the pardons easily, without deceiving themselves, but I think it is necessary to be very twisted and have very little shame to get from the bill of light to euthanasia. Don't worry, speaking of records, you've hit a new record again today. [[Applauds]] He said that steps had been taken to alleviate that situation. We have seen how the ERTE mechanism was being put in place, how liquidity was being provided to companies through ICOs or through direct aid, prohibitions on basic supply cuts, the ease of contract changes and a long list of measures that are profoundly in contrast to the proposals of the People's Party for its management of the previous crisis. This royal decree presented to us today by the Government works exactly the same, this royal decree travels in the same direction that of implementing immediate measures that serve to alleviate a very difficult situation, while continuing to work and the necessary structural reforms can be implemented. Since the beginning of this year, and especially in recent weeks, we have experienced a very worrying rise in electricity prices. We have been reminded by all those who have preceded me that today we have hit the price record. It is a phenomenon that has occurred throughout Europe. The wholesale electricity prices are the highest in history and are beating records in all European markets, in all European countries. The way it moves to the consumer's bill is designed within the European energy framework, but is not adapted to the current reality of the energy sector. That is why we are working on an in-depth reform that will allow the electricity bill of consumers to be reduced in a stable and lasting way. We already have in Congress the draft law for the creation of the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System and soon we will also have the draft law for the reduction of CO2 salaries to non-stationary power stations. This will allow us to lower the electricity bill, the final bill to consumers by around 15%. But not only that, we have seen how in the auction of renewables that takes place a few months ago the prices that were obtained were the fourth part of those that we see today in the pool. The way forward thus seems quite clear, but extraordinary situations require extraordinary measures and the Government has decided to reduce VAT on electricity immediately, from 21 % to 10 %, for virtually all private consumers and for the vast majority of businesses, especially SMEs and self-employed. By the way, and that we don't forget anyone, it hasn't been a year since Mr Rajoy said that raising VAT was that bad ruler's blast until it was raised from 18 to 21 %, also for the bugs that worried him so much; yes, for that too. In addition to this fall in VAT, the value tax on electricity production is also suspended during the third quarter, which should further reduce consumers' bills. But we know that this is not enough, it is not the definitive solution to the problem we are experiencing. This is an exceptional measure aimed at alleviating consumer spending; a measure which serves to cushion the effects of the extraordinary price rises we are experiencing. We know that the solution to this problem is through an energy transition that allows us to free ourselves from our dependence on fossil fuels, because if we are to find a source of the problem we are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, it is the price of fossil fuels, especially that of natural gas, which is used in combined cycle plants. We know that the solution passes through the auction of renewables, through self-consumption, through the generation distributed, through storage, through future bets such as green hydrogen, through intelligent demand management, through structural reforms such as the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, through a reform of energy taxation. And we also know that this transition must be fair, that it must be respectful and, therefore, changes are incorporated, also in this royal decree, for access and connection with specific social and environmental criteria. Look, the debate is open. Mr. Requena, as it couldn't be otherwise, reminded us today. The PP has brought us six times the same initiative to this Congress in order, according to them, to lower the cost of the electric bill. Although his proposal was wrong, for reasons that we have had time to discuss up to six times, as I have said, at least the title of the initiative was not wrong: to lower the electricity bill. Well, today is different, today they have a chance to prove that they really want to lower the electric bill. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for the majority support of this House to validate the royal decree. Yours too, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. You can vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree and really prove that you really want to lower the electric bill, or you can profile yourself and abstain, as you usually do. They would also have a third option, which is to vote against. I want to believe that they do not think about it, because one thing is that they do not care about the people of this country and another thing is that they prove it to them and make it clear to them with their vote, putting their political needs before the needs of the people, which is what you usually do. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government, with President Pedro Sánchez at the head, will continue to work to solve this problem; a solution that requires far-reaching reforms, as I have said and as the Vice-President of the Government has explained very well. These quiet reforms take time and while, we continue with the objective of moving forward in an energy transition that prepares us for the future to come, we are putting in place these exceptional measures that will serve to cushion the effects of the rise of light and protect all consumers with them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 13/2021, OF 24 JUNE, AMENDING LAW 2/2021, OF 29 MARCH, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES OF PREVENTION, CONTENTION AND COORDINATION TO FRONT THE HEALTH CRISIS OF COVID-19, AND THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2020, OF 7 JULY, OF ECONOMIC REACTIVATION MEASURES TO FRONT THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 IN TRANSPORT AND LIVING AREAS. [[File number 130/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u54	We turn to the next item on the agenda, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 13/2021 of 24 June, amending Law 2/2021 of 29 March, on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, and Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July, on economic reactivation measures to deal with the impact of COVID-19 on transport and housing. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to everyone and everyone. I compare with you to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 13/2021 of 24 June, amending Law 2/2021 of 29 March, on urgent measures for prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, and also Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July, on economic reactivation measures to deal with the impact of COVID on transport and housing. Ladies and gentlemen, amending Law 2/2021 is another step on the road to the recovery of that normal life that we enjoy before this bloody pandemic will impact us all in full. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the road has been long, it has been winding, but it is also true that, thanks to the efforts of citizens, the commitment of our healthcare professionals, the joint and coordinated work of the entire National Health System and the measures taken, among other things, in this law, which has now been amended, we have been able, as the title I have just read, to deal with and continue to deal with the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 reads. There is no doubt that many of the measures we have taken, but it is also true that one of the most important for the control of transmission has been the compulsory use of masks that it established - you will recall, ladies and gentlemen - Article 6 of the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, which after the parliamentary procedure resulted in Law 2/2021 of 29 March; a non-pharmacological measure that the Spaniards have taken with the utmost responsibility. At this time the masks have become an indispensable element for all of us, to the extent that they are part of our day-to-day life; there is nothing but looking at your ladies and gentlemen in this House. Undoubtedly, it has been and is being one of our best resources to deal with the contagions; it has been so far, in the absence of vaccines. But it is true that right now the extensive vaccination coverage that is reaching our country has allowed us to propose the beginning of a progressive reduction, of a limited reduction of some of the transmission control measures. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a prudent decision, like the rest of the decisions the government has taken since the pandemic began, because it is taken in a limited and progressive way. I would like to insist on this idea, I would like to emphasise before all of you, because this royal decree-law continues to maintain the mandatoryness of masks, but it is true that we ignore its use only in certain circumstances and only in certain concrete cases. Moreover, this decision counts, as it could not otherwise be, with the support of scientific evidence, which has taught us what are the most favorable or unfavourable conditions for the transmission of the virus. The situation of COVID-19 in our country, ladies and gentlemen, despite the increase in the cumulative incidence that is occurring and that has occurred in recent weeks, is today very different from that of other occasions. The difference is in the high level of vaccination coverage in our country's citizens, because vaccines are our best and greatest barrier to protection and they are allowing us to achieve a level of protection never before seen in our country. According to the latest data from yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we have already administered 51.7 million doses, and this means that 51.3% of the population already has the complete pattern, that is, 24.3 million people. In addition, 62.6% of the population has at least one dose, which means 29.6 million people. These are really important figures, ladies and gentlemen, and they are even more important if we put them in context. Firstly, if we break down the data by age, we see that 91.3% of people over the age of 40 already have a dose - I repeat, 91.3% - and 82.2% of those over the age of 40 have the complete pattern, which means that they are well protected against SARS-CoV-2. And why do I mention this age, ladies and gentlemen? Because, as I explained last week in the Health Committee of this House, for the first time in Spain we are witnessing in the pandemic the existence of two curves of cumulative incidence: one, the curve of cumulative incidence of people older than forty, which not only remains stable, but also in some sections of declining age, and the other, which is below forty, with a completely different evolution from the previous one. The cumulative incidence in persons over the age of 40 differs, as I have just commented, from those under the age of 40. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important part of our protected population. The data I offered yesterday at the press conference after the interterritorial council also credit it as such. Of the cases reported with contagion in the last five weeks, 5.5% of those reported to SiViES had a complete schedule, 11% had a vaccination schedule and 83% had not been vaccinated. That is the great difference that we have at the moment, thanks to the immense work that we are doing all that we are doing in the National Health System and which, first of all, affects the early purchasing strategy that the European Union has made and that has allowed us to access four vaccine platforms; also the work and leadership of the Government of Spain, the impromptu work of the autonomous communities and of the autonomous cities and, of course, the exceptional work of health professionals and, in particular, nursing staff. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the good progress of vaccination, especially with 91% - as I have just told you - of those older than forty, and already by vaccinating the younger age groups, the Alerts and Plans of Preparation and Response, a collegiate body of the interterritorial council, raised the technical decision to relax the compulsory use of masks in open spaces, provided that the conditions of safety distance, which, as you know, makes the transmission of the virus difficult - and scientific evidence has shown this - are fulfilled. This presentation, ladies and gentlemen, is held on a weekly basis and addresses technical aspects related to the surveillance and control of infectious diseases. The presentation - I think it is important to share it with you - is made up of the persons responsible for the surveillance and alert services of the Autonomous Communities and the Autonomous Cities, staff of the General Directorate of Public Health of the Ministry of Health, the Centre for Emergency Coordination and Health Alerts, the General Directorate of External Health, the General Directorate of Promotion, Prevention and Quality, the Ingeza, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Carlos III Institute of Health. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a decision based on the position of the Alert Office, made up of experts from the autonomous communities, as I have just told you, of the ministry and other important agencies of our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of this royal decree is not to discuss whether masks are yes or not; no, ladies and gentlemen. Masks are still mandatory in our country, except in very specific cases, where it makes clear the scientific evidence that the possibility of transmission is minimal or non-existent. As a result, this is minimal regulation, and it is, of course, being tremendously applied by the vast majority of this country's citizens. I want to stress this, ladies and gentlemen, because this royal decree only raises flexibility - I insist on those concrete assumptions, while the general rule is that masks remain mandatory. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is a measure already in force in many countries of our environment, a measure that had also been demanded by many autonomous communities. You know well that our daily lives have been seriously affected by this pandemic. Our citizenship has behaved - as I have said and I repeat - for the most part in an exemplary way. It was time to take small, prudent steps. With prudence, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, cautiously, but little steps. This royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, only amends article 6 of Law 6/2021. The rest of the law, which was passed by this House, remains in force. I am saying this because the images we have seen of crowds of people without masks have neither legal protection nor any justification. I reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, that they have neither legal protection nor any justification. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what these images reveal is the violation of the law, and she is a minister - as I imagine the rest of her lordships - it seems to her that they are unacceptable and, therefore, we call for compliance with the norm. We must insist on the importance of further progress and compliance with the standards that the health authorities are giving in each of the autonomous communities and also the Ministry of Health, developing the competence to coordinate health policy. It is true that there are reasons for pandemic fatigue and that we have been fighting this virus for a long time, but it is important to persevere and keep it on track. This royal decree-law will allow - if the House considers it so - to continue to walk in our battle against the COVID-19, to continue to learn the lessons we have been living every day and to continue to do a little more to carry our lives where distances are given and to the open air where they are allowed. But, ladies and gentlemen, where the conditions laid down in this royal decree-law that we submit to your consideration are not given, the masks remain mandatory; they are there to protect us and take care of us. Let us focus our efforts on transmitting it as well and on ensuring that the standard is met. I would also like to make a brief reference to the second article of this royal decree-law which concerns us, and which, as you will have observed, aims to establish a modulation by the Government of the regulation of access to airport terminals of general interest. In this way we also continue to make progress, when it is estimated, both the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and the Ministry of Health, within the parameters of constant monitoring and modulation of restrictions, if necessary. It also leaves without effect, ladies and gentlemen, the regime established for football in the Professional Football League and also in the ACB League, once the professional competitions have resumed, with the progressive and gradual incorporation of the public into them. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Recovering part of our lives is important, but it is also important to do so in a prudent and careful way. This rule will allow, as you have already done, ladies and gentlemen, that the elderly who live in residences, so severely beaten, in which more than 80% of the elderly who live there will be vaccinated will be without masks, but not so the staff who work there, let alone the visits. Also, ladies and gentlemen, you will be allowed to do so by our firefighters and our police officers when 80 % is vaccinated in your workplaces. We are talking about people who have given everything during this pandemic and who deserve it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Thanks to all the parliamentary groups that will consider supporting this royal decree-law. I'm at your disposal to continue collaborating until we can all get through this damn pandemic. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mrs Velasco Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u57	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a royal decree-law which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June and which, on a very scientific basis - sorry for the irony - and eight days in advance, announced the President of the Government for an optimistic news to divert the attention of pardons to those convicted of sedition and embezzlement. Mr Sánchez said - I open quotes -: 'Our streets, our faces, will recover in the coming days their normal appearance. We will return with it to enjoy a life on the street without mask'. It is something very different from what you have just said in this rostrum, Minister. Moving this message of false security has undoubtedly contributed to the situation in which we are now in the middle of the fifth wave, with an AI of 622 cases, while the Government is asking us to validate the smile decree today. Of course, the Spaniards are bewildered. It's raining on wet, ladies and gentlemen. What is happening today is what the Government is accustomed to. They were late in taking action against the virus, obviating the international alert already declared by WHO on 30 January 2020. They declared a state of alarm in March that the Constitutional Court has just declared unconstitutional, because the Government was extrapolated by not using the state of emergency instrument. In June 2020, a real decree-law of new normality was passed, the decree of the metro and a half, because, according to the president of the government, we had defeated the virus and controlled the pandemic. The Government went on vacation and transferred the full burden of responsibility to the Autonomous Communities. That was said in July, and it was premonitoring, as it is now: after that great message to the Spaniards came the second wave. And seeing that the pandemic was more alive than ever, they brought us a decree and a state of alarm of six months' duration, which I'm afraid could lead the same way as the previous one, according to legal experts. During the validity of this state of alarm we suffered the third and fourth waves, and from the state of alarm of the six months we passed to the decree of smiles. Minister, you either saw or didn't want to see that the delta variant was being introduced and with a high contagion, something that not only me but all scientists and experts saw coming. Meanwhile, the Government relaxed individual protection and entry control measures for citizens from other countries. That irresponsibility of the Government has been observed in each of its actions. For example, this royal decree-law that we are debating today came into force after the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, in its report of 23 June, said that there was a greater incidence and transmissibility of the delta variant and asked the countries of the European Union not to relax protection measures, such as keeping the distance from safety and wearing masks, especially among young people. This government, ladies and gentlemen, was not alluded to. Madam Minister, that irresponsibility has led us, on this long road of what you have spoken of, to Spain of quarantine families, that is, with different criteria depending on where you live. It has led us to Spain with more than 396,521 people infected since the Government's decree-law came into force and with an AI fourteen days that has multiplied by six in less than a month. It has led us to Spain in which the hospitalizations and occupancy of the UCI beds have increased. On 21 June, the health centres attended to 2495 patients COVID, today it is 6856, an increase of 4361. With regard to intensive care units, the number of patients has increased from 644 to 1116, an increase of 472 people. It has led us to Spain where vaccines are also being infected: 5.5% of those vaccinated with a full schedule and 11.4% of those vaccinated with a single dose. It has taken us to Spain where primary care is overcrowded, where health centres and their professionals are exhausted and where non-COVID patients are waiting to be treated. It has taken us to Spain where 135,646 health care workers have been infected, Minister, 1426 in the last week. It has taken us to Spain with three communities that have decreed curfews and have been authorized, as is the case with Valencia, Catalonia and Cantabria, and with three autonomous communities, with similar data and even with greater incidence, which have been denied, such as the Canary Islands, Extremadura and Navarre. It has taken us to Spain where the tourism campaign is in danger, as the sector lamented. Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Belgium already recommend not to travel to our country. It has led us to Spain to which a French Secretary of State has referred as one of the countries that has opened too quickly and perhaps recklessly and to which we must avoid going, because it is wiser to stay in France or visit other countries. It is Spain of travellers to whom France has imposed a negative COVID test carried out with a validity period of twenty-four hours, and not seventy-two hours as so far. And it is Spain that the international study carried out by the COVID-19 Mortality Consortium places among the countries with the highest excess mortality associated with COVID in 2020. Today it is also Spain of the delta variant. Madam Minister, the real situation of the pandemic in our country is of absolute disgovernment and discoordination. Who's seen him and who's seen him? Who was listening to them and who was listening to them now? Do you remember, Minister, when Mr Sánchez on 4 October 2020 declared a state of alarm exclusively for Madrid, with an AI of 540 cases? Today, Minister, the AI is 622, as we have commented, and with an AI seven days more than double. And here nothing happens; well, of course it happens: we remove the masks. Do you remember, Minister, that in April 2021, when the AI in Madrid was 272 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, the president of the government accused the president of the Community of Madrid of crossing arms and achieving a record, according to him, of discontrol and demand? Would you qualify today for discontrol and disgrace our country with an AI of more than 622? I do not want to imagine what would have happened if the microbrows had originated in the Community of Madrid. The Spanish will always remember, minister, as a sign of identity of a government that managed a pandemic always with political criteria and without technical criteria, however much today tells us that they are endorsed with technical criteria. Minister, I'll tell you about the variants. I remember statements by the President of the Government in Fatur last May 21st - look how curious, if not sloppy -: From next Monday Spain will be responsible for hosting British tourists are welcome, without restrictions or health requirements. The following fact has been found. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on its website, dated 6 June 2021, notes that in order to travel from the United Kingdom to Spain - abro quotes - 'if you are habitually resident in the United Kingdom and have not travelled in the fourteen days preceding your trip to Spain you are authorized to enter without health restrictions'. These instructions and indications have been in force until 1 July. As you see, a whole window of opportunities for the new variant. If there is a clear sign that you always go behind the virus is that today the delta variant is the dominant one in our country. I remember that you call it a variant of interest when you did not control this variant or 1% of the cases. Madam Minister, all Spaniards are eagerly waiting for the entire population to be finally vaccinated and we see on a permanent basis that you attribute to the government as a great success that a large number of people are vaccinated. They are able to send a ministry technician to give a press conference to tell us the data of incidence and mortality and to leave you at half an hour to tell us the situation of the vaccines. Do you know what is the reason for the high percentage of vaccinated Spaniards? That we have an excellent health system and excellent professionals. The Spanish question is whether the vaccinated people continue to be infected and when Spain will be able to have immunity from herds and live peacefully. Madam Minister, all this I have said to you is worrying, but even more worrying is that we are still without a legislative instrument to deal with a pandemic. Autonomous communities decree curfews and other perimeter closures. In the end, what we're seeing is that your co-governance is not a wonder. We have discovered that, for you, co-governance is seventeen models for managing the pandemic and that this misadjustment is because you have refused to have a pandemic law in Spain. The courts and the Council of State, in several resolutions and reports, have recommended that they adopt an epidemic law, as the People's Party has been calling for for for over a year. But you have not listened to anyone and prefer that it be the Supreme Court that has to rule on the various, often uneven, decisions of the courts of justice of the respective autonomous communities. It is unacceptable for the Government to reject a pandemic law that facilitates the work of the health authority in the fight against COVID and, at the same time, to draw up a preliminary draft of national security with which it intends to confer omnimodity powers, a preliminary draft that is justified by the experience of the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, just as we did a year ago today, we adopted the conclusions of the Commission's opinion on health economic and social reconstruction. On that day we gave him a vote of confidence and supported the opinion, but one year later the Government has unfortunately failed to comply with this House and, instead of bringing to Parliament the measures envisaged in the plan and intended to strengthen our National Health System, it brings us a decree of meter and a half, the decree of masks. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this decree-law, nor do we approve of the government's management of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u58	Mrs. Velasco, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u59	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Health. You have presented us with a royal decree-law on behalf of a Council of Ministers that has forever recorded the march of unconstitutionality on account of the decree on the state of alarm, with which they broke nothing more and nothing less than the fundamental rights of all Spaniards. Such a presentation card calls for the validation of measures relating to the evolution of the VOCID-19 pandemic, which continues to be very disturbing, as we are immersed in the fifth wave of a contagion that, irresponsiblely and publicly reported through, the infallible president of the Executive gave up thirteen months ago, perhaps as one of those false prophets upon whom Mr Oliver Fernández warned, recently ceased as Secretary of State of Communication: 'Huye, Adso, of the prophets and of those who are willing to die for the truth, because they also often cause the death of many others, often before themselves'. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's blunt and misleading propaganda in this long period of health emergency, coupled with its established lack of respect and contempt for the General Courts, is directly responsible for the terrible magnitude of a contagion, the very high risk of which is totally undervalued at the beginning and which was used politically against the opposition and against governments of different signs, which, as Mrs Velasco Morillo rightly pointed out, has led Spain to lead the incidence of contagion and mortality in the European Union and which, in correspondence with its contempt for the rule of law, keeps our country in a colossal legal gallimacy depending on the autonomous community where the regulations are applied, with the corresponding socio-economic zobra. Mrs Darias, a substantial part of these measures refers to the use of masks, which reminds us that at the beginning of the pandemic the Ministry of Health disclosed, through its official information channels, the following message: the general healthy population does not need to wear masks. And it is that if for something the government has distinguished itself throughout the health emergency it is for its contradictory and disconcerting messages, when not reckless. Now, without anyone in the ministry having asked for forgiveness for that lethal recommendation on masks, you propose that Spain adapt to the reality of a pandemic that maintains signs of enormous uncertainty, with figures of contagion that re-fire, a gradual increase in the occupation of ICUs, the front-line healthcare staff without relief and, if we talk about some economic aspects, large and confused limitations for tourism, both from other countries and from the interior. In short, I will vote, Madam President, against the validation of this royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u63	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, I described this decree as prudent and I believe that the word is irresponsible, not so much for the content of the decree as for the way in which it was transmitted, with an absurd political use of a serious matter such as the pandemic and with a totally negligent cynicism. First, we had the announcement that the use of masks in public spaces was going to be removed, and it was made in a bowl and dish to cover up the shames of an assignment to independence that was known to be having a huge cost to the Government in Spanish society. It was thus announced, giving an image of victory. That image of victory was a huge irresponsibility. Another huge irresponsibility was to convene a specific extraordinary council to address a decree that could have been perfectly addressed in the ordinary Council of Ministers that same week. What did you get out of this? Move the image that the virus was defeated, that we could go out on the streets joyfully, because, in addition, the first thing the government said was that we could take off our masks on the outside. Then they mattized and said we could take them off outside if we were able to keep a distance of one and a half meters. Go to the squares of Spain and tell me who understood the second part of the message. It is clear that many people understood only the first, because the government only communicated the first. When the Spanish are asked for an effort of responsibility - which I share -, when many irresponsible images are criticized - and I join that criticism because it is absolutely unjustifiable that we have seen images like those we have seen in many places in Spain - the first one that has to be responsible is the Government. Obviously, if the Government acts negligently, makes political use and conveys an unreal image, it is far from being able to ask Spanish society for even more responsibility than we have seen all this time. What is the result of this negligence of the Government of Spain? The result is that on the day of the extraordinary Council of Ministers the cumulative incidence in our country was 93 and today exceeds 600 and that there is a fifth wave: once again a Spanish society is suffering; again a collapsed health, in this case with primary care that cannot more; a fatal blow to tourism, at the worst moment in which it can take place, and therefore a fatal blow to the Spanish economy, at a time when it should already be resuming. These are the consequences of the populist market that the government wants to launch with the image of the unjustified and unreal victory with which this decree was announced. Those are the consequences. We've heard many times that the virus is defeated, but here we have a fifth wave. We have seen too many times that this country is the worst in managing the pandemic - of five, five -. Once again we see a government that does not exist. The Government has transferred all responsibilities to the Autonomous Communities; all competencies are in the Autonomous Communities and we have seventeen different rules. Above all, the High Courts of Justice have to take decisions, as in the case of Navarra, where they have had to overthrow what the Government of Navarra has proposed. That's not the way to manage a pandemic. Of course, it can't be unilaterality...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u64	You have to finish, Mr. Sayas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u65	... but it cannot be the cowardice with which the Government of Spain is acting either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u66	Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u67	Egun on. Good morning. It is a very specific question that of the decree on the compulsory use of masks on the outside and should not really give rise to too many empty speeches if we stick to it, obviously. I'm going to do it, I'm going to stick to the subject. Having said that, I will also say that there are reasons why, from the point of view of wisdom and leaving aside interested reasons, we could vote yes, we could vote no, we could even abstain on this issue, because there may be arguments to validate each of the three possible options. It happens that when we talk about public health, when we talk about a pandemic like the one we are living in, which escapes all the schemes that have so far proved valid to us, the categorical answers also disappear. The debate is simple and complex at the same time, yes, but the scientific evidence is clear. There is a general coincidence in the scientific community that the risk of transmission of the virus is virtually zero outside whenever the distance of the meter and a half is respected. That's the scientific evidence. Today we are talking about the use of masks on the outside and, given the low risk of transmission on the outside, at this time the obligation to wear masks in open spaces may be, to say the least, excessively arbitrary. Some argue, even, that a requirement of this kind, that the mask must be worn outdoors, could discourage being outdoors, which could also worsen social isolation, which is one of the social derivatives of this pandemic. Nor does it serve us much to look at European regulations, that of other European countries, because each state in this also has its own rules, different from those that may exist in the neighbouring country. It happens in Europe and it happens in the United States. So what we have left is to call prudence and common sense, and I think that in this we have an advantage, that citizenship is mostly aware of all this, is aware of the risk posed by the emergence of new variants and is also aware that this virus has shown us that it is always moving forward and that we are always going behind. This decree is a good example of this too. The ban that was imposed in his day has been overtaken and citizenship has also been overtaken by itself in this ban. We're seeing it on the streets these days, where mostly people wear masks even if it's not mandatory in open spaces. I think that civic awareness should also be taken into account because consciousness educates more and better than any decree of prohibition. It is a responsibility that citizens should be asked for, and it is also a responsibility that political leaders, regardless of where they are, should be asked for. We therefore believe that the most effective measure is to make that call for the responsibility and prudence of the citizenry on a permanent basis, but we also call for political responsibility, which today must be translated into the strengthening of primary care, which is currently experiencing a brutal tension. For all this, we voted yes to this decree that eliminates the compulsory use of masks abroad, being fully aware that we are moving on moving, insecure terrain and that what is decided today may be that tomorrow will not work. So, I repeat: citizen responsibility - which must be trusted - without applying more restrictive measures than necessary and which we are already observing a good level of commitment in the streets of towns and cities, and also responsibility in the political class, looking at what needs urgent efforts, which is primary care. This is the immediate and immediate focus. There is another more general one, that of climate change, which was much talked about at the beginning of the pandemic and to which it seems difficult for us to return, even knowing that the fate of the planet, the future of the new pandemics that can plague the world over and over again, is linked to human interaction with the earth, the sea and the air around us. Let's not forget, we considered it at the beginning of the pandemic. Now, we walk around these days with the Greek alphabet to be able to call the successive variants that are emerging. The alphabet is limited and can run out of letters to identify variants of this virus. Neither is there so much planet nor so many alphabets to resort to. And I conclude by recalling again that this decree does not eliminate the use of masks but continues to indicate it for enclosed spaces, as well as when the distance of meter and a half cannot be maintained. Let us not forget and act responsibly on all sides. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u68	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning, comrades, comrades. Good morning, minister. In our speech - speaking on behalf of the Basque Group, as you well know - we are going to try to use the most empathic tone we can for the responsibility it has. At the same time, applying the principle of reciprocity, we will ask you, too, in your decisions and in your analyses, to exercise empathy with all the health authorities of the Autonomous Communities, which are making front-line decisions and facing an enormously complicated situation in the middle of the fifth wave. Having said that, I will tell you that in the current situation our group cannot support the validation of the actual decree-law that is being debated at this time and the reasons, the arguments of our position are in the explanatory statement of the actual decree-law itself. You said in your speech that the obligation is still being maintained but we are improving its use, and that is the question. At this time, in our view, there is no reason to lessen the use. You also argued this issue in scientific decisions and in a decision of a strong scientific character adopted by the paper several weeks ago. In the explanatory statement of the royal decree-law it is said in one of the sections exactly: '... by delimiting in this normative text clearly the assumptions in which the use of masks is obligatory, as well as its exceptions and all this to the most recent indicators...'. Therefore, today we should be analysing and making decisions on the basis of the latest indicators. And also in another section they say: 'All this data and in particular, scientific evidence on the lowest degree of transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus...'. I repeat: about the lowest degree of transmission of the coronavirus. You know that at this moment the mutation that encamps in its width is the delta, 70% of the case in Euskadi. You know perfectly well that the degree of transmission of that variant is much more important than the indicators that you had when you drafted the explanatory statement of this royal decree-law, 60% more than the British, which in turn was 50% more transmissible than the original Wuhan. Therefore, just for those reasons we are not in the same place. If you follow what you put in the explanatory statement, we have to make decisions on the basis of the current indicators, so the decision then adopted should be reconsidered. We know that the pandemic is very dynamic and requires political skill for what at one point could be a right and today is a mistake, and maybe within fifteen days it will be a right. But we must have political agility, political waist and good political judgment in order to change the decisions taken and respond to what is most important at the moment, which is the control of the spread of the virus. You, too, in your speech last week at the Health Commission, said: '... after six weeks of cumulative falls in incidence... There has been a significant change in trend, increasing significantly, particularly in those unvaccinated groups.' And that's the way it is. Therefore, this reduction in use is not justifiable today. The message that we send from this House to the outside with the fifth wave taking off - not taking off but already fired - cannot be that the use of the mask can be limited and minimized. In our opinion it is an exercise of political irresponsibility because you yourself in your intervention said that if we continue like this we will have to act with caution because we will mention the hospital beds and the beds that we have in ICU. You also said in your appearance that the most important thing at the moment was to control the spread of the virus. Therefore, let us not relax any measures. And he added: 'We know that this will require action by the autonomous communities'. I will give you two examples of autonomous communities that have taken action and what has happened. Euskadi, 24 June: a Basque anti-pandemic law was passed with a range of measures to respond at all times to the situation that was emerging. What's going on? For example, on the subject of masks there is a clash between what is presented here and what has been approved there. Therefore, if you generally claim that they are - and must be so - the autonomous communities that are making decisions we cannot enter into this kind of conflict. I'll give you another example. Navarra - they have just said - asked for the control of night mobility, a curfew that was laid down by the Superior Court of Navarro Justice and cannot go on in that direction. He was lying down, although he can be appealed. But these decisions, Minister, you know more than anyone who cannot be subject to judicialization, but to good political judgment. Good political judgment, not judicialized politics because that is to extend decision-making. What is needed - I insist - is agility and immediacy, and respond correctly at every moment to the needs that exist. In Navarre he fell and fell also in other communities such as Extremadura and Canarias, but was approved in Cantabria and Catalonia. It cannot be that the legal guarantees available to the various autonomous communities when taking action are not the same. What they would have to do from the ministry and the Government was to give adequate legal protection and basis and legal guarantees to all the autonomous communities, and not to be subjected to this arbitrariness so that the measures they took could move forward in order to actually control the virus. Willingness, good political judgment and political agility. I wish all health authorities were right in forecasting the most optimistic scenarios, what else we would like! But in the meantime, prudence and public health, and with these principles we will govern and decide this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u71	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. This royal decree contains the necessary modifications to make an exception in the obligatory use of the masks on the outside when a security distance of one and a half meters can be kept. It is very important to note that the mask remains compulsory in all other circumstances other than the one I have just described to you, circumstances that we live when we are socially related. In addition, the royal decree commits the fact of allowing already parties with public, both of the ACB and of the League of Professional Football, and also proposes the possibility that at the airports who goes to travel can be accompanied to the terminal. In short, some restriction that was adopted at a certain time in the pandemic is changed or relaxed, which is not the current time. We will vote in favour, and we also do not believe that these reforms should be treated as a bill because, in fact, the processing as a bill of measures like this makes it that when we face the processing we are already faced with a rule that serves no purpose, as we have suffered in the previous decree. We will work on what we have to work on and focus our efforts in this House on what we have to focus on. It is therefore a question of adapting the restrictions to those strictly necessary. Why? Because it makes more valuable than there are. If you restrict exactly where you have to restrict, there is greater respect for the rule that remains in force. We know that you can dispense with the outdoor mask when there is a distance of safety and, therefore, you can go without mask only in this circumstance. If these conditions are not met, the mask remains mandatory. In the approach that some parties are making of this situation - which I no longer know what they think of the mask, whether what Mr. Feijoo says or what Mrs. Ayuso says or what they have told us now in turn - seems to give the feeling - and they may be playing with fire - that the mask is no longer mandatory. However, the mask remains mandatory with the exception of when you go down the street and have no one in a meter and a half. Don't confuse the population. It is important to note that when you are in a family nucleus, in the family bubble, obviously, your companions do not count in this meter and a half. By the way, I want to condemn the assault that took place on the subway the other day on a health care provider for asking for the mask. My parliamentary group, Citizens, wishes to congratulate the police on the prompt arrest of the infamous aggressor. I hope that he will pay for it and that the attacker, nurse at Hospital 12 in October, who continued to watch, also on the subway, for the safety and health of all Spaniards, will fully recover the vision in that eye in which he has been wounded. [[Applauds]] Spanish citizenship is being diligent, of the most compliant with the restrictions, not to mention the magnificent example it is giving in vaccination, despite the efforts of some sectors to sow doubts and conspiracies with the pandemic. The truth is that the vast majority of Spaniards know about the effectiveness of vaccines and that is why they have come in mass to get vaccinated when they have been quoted, even when confusion with the second dose was sown well-informed Spaniards came to put on the vaccine that science recommended as more effective. We have a society that trusts scientific evidence and this is something we have to take care of and promote. There are not a few new anti-scientific movements that have been revived during the pandemic: the earthquakes, creationism or its busiest cousin, intelligent design, which deny evolution. But we also have those who consider homosexuality a disease and who can undergo some kind of therapy. All these anti-scientific movements have to be fought from public institutions. I'd ask the generators of this kind of toxic garbage to talk about the girl in Walt Disney's frozen corpse curve again, but leave society and science alone, and if someone gets stuck in their arms after they get the vaccine, the trick is to shower. [[Applauds]] Well, if we have one of the best responding countries, we have to trust and adapt the restrictions to what can be admitted without risk. And this is the case, this royal decree is the case. An exception rule is being promoted, which is what we know can be done, no more or no less. There is no need to go beyond the restrictions of what is necessary because then the laws will cease to be enforced. The responsibility of the vast majority of Spaniards must be borne. By the way - and I am finishing this - I would like to draw attention to the consequences that have had for certain sections of the population the restrictions that we have had no choice but to adopt. In Citizens we are very concerned about the impact on the mental health of the population, especially the younger ones. We still do not know the size of the damage and all its consequences, but the data we are knowing is not encouraging. Since the restrictions began, we have wanted this aspect to be monitored. I asked the previous minister, I ask you, minister - here you can count on us in everything that helps in this matter - and we also proposed it in the agreements of the Bureau for Reconstruction. We want a special investment in mental health, a mental health plan and also to pay attention to suicide, which neither is there any encouraging data. Work also on this issue of mental health and not on other issues. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The health mask has been and is one of the symbols of this pandemic that has touched us to live. It is more than obvious that masks, until the arrival of vaccines, have been one of the most effective tools to prevent contagion among the population. We have always supported responsibility, and because the extraordinary and critical moment required it, health measures to contain the pandemic both in Catalonia and in Congress. I want to highlight the courage that the Generalitat of Catalonia has often had in proposing very strict measures, but that they have finally adopted the other communities. With the vaccination process at an advanced stage, we believe that the use of the mask should be blacked out. The main global health authorities stress that the essential thing is to protect oneself indoors. By way of example, in mid-April a scientific team from Oxford University published in The Lancet medical journal a study that, in addition to explaining how VOCID-19 is transmitted primarily through aerosols, emphasized the measures to avoid becoming infected: avoiding the interiors shared with non-living people, increasing ventilation, using well-adjusted masks within the premises and reducing holes. We believe that at this point, with the population at the highest risk already vaccinated, we cannot recommence the mask in all kinds of open spaces simply as a reminder that the virus is still among us, because the citizenry knows it and much of it is responsible, only to see the large number of people who still wear the mask on the street even though it is not mandatory. We shall vote in favour of this royal decree. Having said that, we warn the Government that it cannot shift all responsibility to the autonomous communities in this fifth wave; a fifth wave that perhaps would not have been so clear if diagnostic capacity had been increased much earlier. In Catalonia primary care has for days been alerting of the saturation it suffers as a result of the increase of contagions, which is where the detection and monitoring of positives and their contacts are carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we wonder why they have not so far authorized the sale of antigen tests in pharmacies, why they have not taken advantage of the network of pharmacies when they have offered to help contain the pandemic on many occasions, and why they do not further strengthen private public collaboration to give a boost to vaccination and to carry out massive tests and screenings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u75	Thank you very much, President. Minister, good morning. I will be very brief in my intervention, basically, I will intervene to mark a little the elements that make up our assessment of this decree-law. In fact, our autonomous community led at the time even the request to make the use of masks more flexible in open spaces. I remember a few weeks ago, or a month or a half ago, several autonomous communities, including Catalonia, were calling for the use of the mask to be made more flexible in the face of a situation that really gave announcements that it was beginning to change. It is true that Procicat, which is Catalonia's territorial civil protection plan, currently recommended and recommends precisely the same measures of flexibility in the use of masks that are being proposed in this royal decree. In fact, all this responded to an improvement in the epidemiological situation in the previous weeks - that is undeniable - but the critical situation experienced these weeks in Catalonia, with an exponential increase in the rates of infection, has changed radically compared to the previous scenario of a month ago. Precisely, this has forced us to resume containment measures that we believed were overtaken. In this sense, maintaining or not the use of the mask in open spaces is part of the precautionary measures that may or may not incorporate the autonomous communities on the basis of their epidemiological situation. We must recognize that the mask - in that sense it is important to recognize it - has been one of the most effective tools for containing the transmission of contagion. For this reason, and without extending further, we will abstain in this royal decree, bearing in mind that it responds to a concrete measure and to a concrete context, and that in Catalonia the conditions have changed radically in a few weeks and do not respond precisely to the context of the royal decree. In any case, we are going to vote against a bill as a bill, since this measure is a temporary measure that can vary precisely in a few weeks and if vaccination continues to move towards immunity from herds, it is likely that this measure will have to be modified or even extinguished at last. Therefore, we are going to abstain, but in any case it must be borne in mind that the exceptional situation that we live in Catalonia depends and conditions the vote of this royal decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u76	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u77	Thank you very much. Good morning. The argumentary basis of Royal Decree-Law 13/2021 of 24 June is that the evolution of the pandemic by COVID-19 and the vaccination coverage that is being achieved in Spain allow the progressive reduction of some transmission control measures. The use of the mask has proved to be the star measure - apart from vaccines, of course - to contain the virus and allow social relations. It has not only avoided contagions by coronavirus, but - we all know - other contagions. Indeed, the vaccination strategy has worked, I think very well, perhaps in some communities better than in others. At the moment, the epidemiologists and the Government are proposing that anyone should be able to remove their mask, if they so wish, in outdoor places that allow a distance of 1.5 metres and without agglomerations. The scientific evidence thus supports it and the royal decree implicitly contemplates the specific cases that should be an exception to this regulation. We agree with this measure, we will vote yes, but at the same time we believe that a call should be made for prudence, which I also believe is implicit in the royal decree. The decrease in the restrictions is always accompanied by an increase in the cumulative incidence, that is, of the contagions, but the scientific evidence seems to indicate that the cause is not to remove the mask in the open. However, I believe that citizenship cannot lose sight of the whole. We're happy to get rid of the outdoor mask if we think so, we're very happy, but let's look at reality. The current epidemiological situation consists of a significant increase in the cumulative incidence, although we must be clear that this increase in the cumulative incidence is accompanied, fortunately, by a very significant decrease in mortality, at least so far. Right now, they're resisting hospital beds, ICU beds. This can be seen at some point in danger, but for that reason we are here, so that at the moment when the alert comes all measures can be changed, which is what has been done so far, we have been modifying the measures according to scientific evidence. But other things happen. At the same time as all this happens, we know that, for example, primary health care professionals are far outnumbered and do not deserve - I think - the situation that this fifth wave causes. The work is doubled, the days are extended, the job losses are not covered, and this is something that we have to keep very much in mind, because primary care remains the first front to stop the spread of the virus. We have a Patient Safety Act, known as the Nursing Ratios Act, which comes from a popular legislative initiative that takes a greater sense in this pandemic, much more than being without a pandemic, and this process is very slow. While we are saved because we have vaccines and because we have a public health system that resists, despite the attempts of the right to destroy it - and that is well known by health professionals -, and we cannot afford to think about taking away our mask in certain circumstances, countries with great poverty, which seem wrongly far away, are dying for free, and I say for free because it might not be so. People die and nothing happens, because keeping patents - I already know I'm very heavy with this - and the great benefits of private pharmaceuticals is the number one priority of this world so capitalist and so democratic that it considers that the poor can die because nothing happens. If we remove our mask in the open air, please remove the voluntary mask that we wear in front of our eyes and look around us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, believe me, I sympathize with you. You've been touched by some piece of paper. It has been months of trying to convince the Spaniards that you, unlike your predecessor, Mr. Illa, when making decisions about how to deal with the pandemic is guided by scientific criteria, other than any kind of arbitrariness. But it turns out that in the midst of this tireless task, Pedro Sánchez arrives and instructs you to come up to this rostrum to convince us of something that, frankly, absolutely no one can believe, not even you. Minister, it is true that you are not the first to try to justify the unjustifiable. There were others - now former members of the Council of Ministers - who came to do even more committed things than you did by Pedro Sánchez. He came to differentiate what Pedro Sánchez said from what the president of the government said; by the way, clinically that would be called a dissociative identity disorder. [[Applauds]] Another met secretly in the authority room of Madrid airport with the vice president of a drug addict who had been banned from entering Europe and who, according to him, never stepped on Spanish soil. Another piloted the execution of unacceptable pardons even for the Supreme Court, and many ruined their prestige and good name in trying to present as good what was only admissible for Pedro Sánchez himself. But it always goes wrong. I believe that you are already aware, like all the members of the Council of Ministers, that none of your efforts were appreciated by the President; indeed, the most faithful were precisely the most punished, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed scientific evidence. [[Applauds]] Minister, everyone knows that neither you nor of course any scientist, and let's not say any non-existent committee of experts, had anything to do with the choice of date to decree the end of the masks. Once again the only relevant criterion was the capricious interest of that Narcissus into which Pedro Sánchez has become, and that, which is always serious, is more so when we talk about protective measures against the virus. Whether the Spaniards have to wear masks or should not be decided with strictly scientific criteria, it must not be linked to the urgency that Moncloa has to give good news or to the whims of government propaganda. This arbitrariness marks one more purpose, and there are few, in relation to the use of masks. First, when we were worse, from the government they maintained that masks were not necessary; then they took a step further and came to defend not only that they were not necessary, but that they were counterproductive; later they made them mandatory, yes, by taxing the mask with the most expensive VAT in the European Union, which you said could not be lowered, and now they come and decide the end of the obligation in open spaces according to the political needs marked by the Moncloa. Everyone knows that two days before this extraordinary Council of Ministers, in which they took this decision, another was held, an ordinary Council of Ministers, in which pardons were approved for the coup, and everyone knows that this decision at that time can only be framed within that large smoke curtain created to distract attention from a discussion that provokes the rejection of the vast majority of Spaniards. Pedro Sánchez knows that pardoning those who have pardoned is unacceptable and has reiterated that he would do so again even though they have also said that they would do so again. He has weakened the rule of law, left the Supreme Court at the stand, betrayed all Spaniards, including his voters, who he lied to, and left thousands of Catalans alone by removing the protection of the law. [[Applauds]] And now, in that flight forward, it's only up to him to hide the pardons, and to do so he doesn't care to make a new troupe: to make health decisions for political reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, it's sad, but it is. In the midst of a deadly pandemic that has caused the death and ruin of millions of Spaniards, Pedro Sánchez has been able to put an essential aspect of the government's health policy, such as the use of masks, at the service of his only interest: to remain in power. That's sectarianism. Minister, Pedro Sánchez is not above the Spaniards, his health or his rights, but he has already made it clear that everything depends on his adherence to the command stick. That is why you make up the worst government possible at the worst possible time. The Spanish deserve that, in the midst of this pandemic, public health decisions respond to the goal of saving lives and jobs; they deserve that their rights and freedoms are always respected without being trampled on by the incumbent Government in a state of alarm that we now know to be unconstitutional. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, what this government is doing is very serious. I do not tell you, the Constitutional Court has said this in response to an appeal of unconstitutionality, by the way, lodged by VOX - which some of its honourable Members forget this little detail - in defense of the rights of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] This abuse of the rights of the Spaniards has no precedents and any decent government would have already resigned and would have called elections if it had received such a sham from the Constitutional Court, but you have not; you have done exactly the opposite, launching a campaign of harassment against judges that marks a tremendously dangerous drift and an absolute lack of respect for the separation of powers. Instead of rectifying, you are ratifying yourself in your authoritarian drift: during these days the pressures exerted by the then first Vice-President of the Government on the judge of the Constitutional Court to endorse the state of alarm have been known. For this reason, Madam Minister, although we are obviously not going to refuse to eliminate the obligation of masks in open spaces, do not count on us to whiten their indignity, because we are concerned that the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards have been part of what Ábalos called stones on the road that we must unblock. We are concerned that in her first appearance the Minister of Justice of a consolidated democracy, such as Spanish democracy, attacks the Constitutional Court and speaks of the judgment as the opinion of six judges of the Court, and we are concerned that a Minister of Defence refers to arguments made by the Constitutional Court as doctrinal elucubrations. Madam Minister, you are putting our system of rights and freedoms at risk and what is at stake is the freedom of all Spaniards, do not count on VOX for that. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u81	Thank you, President. The Nobel Prize in Physics and great scientific divulger, Richard Feynman, said that one way to try to understand nature is to imagine that the gods are playing some game like chess; you don't know the rules of that game, but you are allowed to look at the board from time to time from the corner or something like that and maybe with those observations you can find out the rules. Gradually, the physicist commented, the observers would deduct the rules of the game, step by step, starting with the easiest, but also how it is complicated to deduce how and why from the roosts or a pawn that reincarnates in a queen who had long since abandoned the game. This is how - said Feynman - revolutions occur in science: a succession of laws that initially seem to work, but which suddenly show a vulnerability that needs to be corrected by formulating a new law, that is, continuous learning and succession of corrections. We have been suffering from the ripping pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 for more than a year, and the way to deal with science is totally comparable to the analogy proposed by Feynman. Science is learning, and as it is getting data and drawing conclusions it tries to offer us every day its best answers, which then, from politics, it is up to us to translate into the Official State Gazette, always trying to ensure that they are the right measures at every moment and according to that succession of corrections that the Nobel Prize talked about. The measures relating to the use of the mask are a good example of what we are saying. The actual decree-law that we bring to validation today must be understood according to the time of its publication and the circumstances of the moment. In order to put us in a position, allow me a small miscellany of what remarkable members of different autonomous communities said in the days leading up to that royal decree. In Andalusia, President Elias Bendododo states that if a person is sunbathing in an umbrella with his family or friends up to a maximum of six, he did not have to wear the mask; if he entered into interaction with other groups, yes, as the royal decree states. In Galicia, the president of the Xunta, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, advocates for progress in the regulatory changes necessary to eliminate the obligation to use masks in outer spaces in communities that have a good epidemiological situation and a high percentage of vaccination, as stated in the royal decree. In Castile and León, his vice president, Francisco Igea, assured that they hoped they could eliminate the use of the mask on the outside, except in mass concentrations, as the royal decree states. In Cantabria, the president of Cantabria, Miguel Ángel Revilla, considers it a good idea that the mask ceases to be mandatory in outdoor spaces. In Catalonia, - Mr Eritja already said - the secretariat of Public Health recalled that it was a demand in which Catalonia had insisted at the last meetings of the Health Commission and the interterritorial council. And what about Madrid? The President of the Community of Madrid, Díaz Ayuso, welcomed this decision because she considered it unnecessary to wear masks in open spaces with the current percentage of vaccinated population. That action is necessary, it is necessary already, he stated bluntly. We won't talk about the million unadministered vaccines today. As you can see, these are manifestations - we could cite more responsible and more autonomous communities - that marry perfectly with the arguments of the royal decree-law that we are dealing with today, royal decree-law that does not suppress the use of masks, but merely introduce changes that affect the elimination of their compulsory use in public way and in open spaces, but remaining the obligatory use of their use in agglomerations in which the distance of metro and medium cannot be maintained, in the means of public transport, platforms, passenger stations, cable cars, in addition to other specifications that the minister reported and that affect areas of residence - such as those of the elderly -, prison, sports, airport... And let us not forget that article 22 remains in force, which dictates sanctions for those who fail to comply with them. Bringing up the Pisuerga, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is a parliamentary appeal, but what we bring to debate here is neither the ruling of the Constitution nor the pardons, it is not the state of alarm or a law of pandemics; today we vote what we vote on: the actual decree-law to eliminate the compulsory use of masks in the open under certain conditions. We are talking about prudent measures, with the prudence that has always been required and applied to deal with the pandemic, with the same prudence with which to insist that the general rule is the mandatory mask, except in the exceptions provided for in the norm. This is a royal decree-law whose support has been nothing other than the evolution of epidemiological indicators, as well as the evolution of vaccination. This measure is prudent and consistent with the evolution of both scenarios. By the way, minister, the degree of vaccination is on the right track. The figures that you have given - and I am not going to repeat them - constitute excellent news, except for the People's Party, it seems, that you have not made any mention of it, perhaps so that the story that you have wanted to convey to us today is not dismantled, or perhaps, as Mr Illa said, for wanting an epidemiological battle to become an ideological battle. Minister, vaccination is a great achievement that reaffirms the governance model, which works well, that the Government and the various autonomous communities are vigilant and taking steps to accommodate them continuously - a succession of corrections we said - to the circumstances of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, fundamentally ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I say this again: in politics, and more in crisis, people expect us to add and multiply efforts, and not what you are doing: subtract and divide. Fortunately, vaccination - vaccination, vaccination and vaccination, which is repeated so much by the President of the Government, which is repeated so much by you, Minister, and which is repeated so much by our Health Spokesperson, Mrs Ana Prieto - is our window of hope and our exit from the crisis. It is a process of success in our health care system and we should be congratulated and congratulated. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u82	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2021, OF 6 JULY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF TEMPORALITY IN PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u83	We turn to the next item on the agenda, the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality of public employment. To present the Royal Decree-Law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. As you know, this is the first time that I have come up to this rostrum to address a debate within the framework of the powers relating to the Civil Service, which as a result of the remodelling of the Government have joined the responsibilities that I already had and which, on the other hand, are not alien or unknown to me, because in the Ministry of Finance we work hand in hand with the Public Service and because, moreover, I have developed part of my professional career within the autonomous framework precisely in the Department of Public Service. I will have the opportunity to move the priorities and the lines of work that we are going to set for this new stage in the near future, and I will therefore not be referring to that today. I sympathize - to ask you to support the validation of Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 with which, you will recall, the Government adopted urgent measures last 24 July for the reduction of the temporality in public employment. I would like to thank Minister Iceta and the trade union organisations that are signatories to the agreement - UGT, Workers' Committees and CSIF - for the proactive attitude to solving one of the most important problems that the whole of the public administration has, derived from all previous management as a result of the financial crisis of the previous stage. I am aware that - because it has been discussed in the last few hours - some parliamentary groups do not fully share the approach or some of the issues envisaged in this rule. That is why I am now advancing the will of the Socialist Group to draft this text so that we can incorporate as many improvements as possible, always, as it cannot otherwise be, within the framework of legality. As you know, this Government is a strong advocate of dialogue and agreement. We believe that this is the best way to achieve solutions that are durable and viable over time, especially on such a complex issue, which affects many people and all public administrations, but with a special impact on territorial administrations, specifically in autonomous communities and local authorities. Over the next few minutes, I will try to disprove how we have come to this situation and what the Government is proposing to solve it, but first, as a matter of fact, I would like to share two thoughts with your ladies and gentlemen. First of all, my main objective as Minister of Finance and Public Service will continue to be to put citizens and citizens at the centre of all policies, improving the quality, sensitivity and efficiency of public services, the basis of the welfare state, and more now, when economic recovery begins after the crisis and we have to address the enormous challenge of modernising the country, a challenge in which public administrations and public employees will play a very important role: they have to be tractors of the important changes that we need to push forward. If we really want to enlarge, as we do, the middle class in this country, this segment of the population that we want it to regain positions that it lost in the previous financial crisis, we need strong, robust public services that are up to its demands, new needs and aspirations, so that in the end citizens can feel more and more proud of these public services for their quality and also for their results. Secondly, I want to tell you that this is a government committed to stable employment, to quality employment. You know that we have achieved, through the social dialogue, a wide range of measures aimed precisely at the application of this principle in the private sector, at combating the precariousness and temporality of many workers, which prevent families and especially young people from having a predictable horizon of a stable future. That same intention is what we seek with this text, to reach an agreement within the framework of the public sector that seeks the maximum possible consensus for the benefit of employees and Spanish society. Therefore, the rule we are addressing today is an example of the search for this consensus. Prior to the adoption by the Council of Ministers, two sectoral public administration conferences and the meeting of the General Bureau for the Negotiation of Public Administrations were held, reaching agreement with the trade unions Commissions, UGT and CSIF. It is an agreement, as I said before, that we must put value on as it is a really important first step in solving a problem that is coming from afar and that to date has not been possible to address. In fact, the former Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, Mr.Iceta, and his team worked on this solution, which is now up to me to defend in this rostrum, and I will do so with the following arguments. The origin of this decree-law lies in the need for an effective and also short-term solution to at least a majority of the main problem of temporaryity in public employment in public administrations. It is a situation that has grown over the past few years due essentially to the non-authorization of replacement rates, which means that public job offers could not be taken out on a regular basis, re-incorporated the places that were at that time being occupied on an interim basis. But, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have responsibility and experience in the Public Service also know that this is not the only element, that another of the problems with which the Administrations count is the bureaucratic process that has led to the Public Employment Offer itself, so that we have pending to resolve a very important volume of calls that have already been reflected in the relevant official bulletins and that are still in the process of processing or resolving with the allocation of the places that had been called. I believe that we will also have to work in parallel with this and therefore, despite this decree, there is still a long way to go in the next two years to achieve the objective set out, an objective which is to ensure that public employment is above 92% of the places occupied or, in other words, that temporaryity is reduced to around 8% as an indicative figure. For example, I would like to remind you that this year's Budget Act itself included a replenishment rate of 110 per cent for priority sectors, including education, health care, staff providing legal advice or management of public resources or in the control and control of fraud. Also during this pandemic, as your ladies and gentlemen know, we have released a very large volume of unconditional resources so that the necessary personnel could be hired in health, education or social services. I'm going to give you an indication of this extreme. You know that until about May, in the annual - two years of pandemic - the growth of Chapter 1, corresponding to the territorial administrations, exceeds 8%, a really important figure considering that it is only appreciable to the wage increase of 0.9%. These are all issues arising from the Government's own legislation, and I believe that it can be said without any problem that, in fact, the autonomous communities have had the capacity to hire all the necessary personnel, especially in the health field - which was the most pressing -, also educational, social services or those departments that had to manage the corresponding resources, all so that there would be no hindrance or inconvenience in order to pay the attention required by the timing of the pandemic. As we enter fully into this issue, I want you to know that both the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the Union itself have repeatedly pointed out the importance of activating measures to combat this temporality in the public sector. That is why we are going to try to solve a problem that is being tackled and we are also going to try to prevent it from happening again in the future, at least in the near future. Therefore, we provide legal certainty, with a practical solution that scrupulously complies with the law to respond to the people who currently occupy structural positions after years of chaining periods of interinity or temporary work. This framework for putting time at 8% is the one that moves us and we will do so by acting on three levels: firstly, by taking immediate measures to remedy this high time; secondly, by articulating other initiatives to prevent and punish abuse or fraud in the future - fraud by the administrations themselves - and thirdly, by adopting a culture of planning for better human resources management. Therefore, this standard completes the temporary employment stabilization processes that have been included in the previous budget laws - specifically in those of 2017 and 2018, with the last stabilization process -, so that this standard allows an additional replacement rate to the one already allowed so that all, I insist, all places can be called up as soon as possible. It is a process that will affect all structural positions, that is, those that are budgeted and occupied temporarily and uninterrupted at least in the three years prior to 31 December 2020 and that have not, of course, been included in the stabilization processes of those entities that have convened those of 2017 and 2018. This is a sort of blur and new account, so that we are able to respond to the 300,000 places that we now estimate are occupied meeting these criteria and that were not offered in the corresponding public employment calls. For this reason, the decree law authorizes this call of 300,000 places, which at the sectoral conference will have to be distributed among the corresponding autonomous communities and, also, local entities. This is the largest public offer - at least, which I remember - of our recent history. The rule also states that the resolution of these selective processes will have to be completed by 31 December 2024. But it is not only necessary to convoke the places, but also to study the bottlenecks that prevent the resolution of the calls from being made in a prudent time, so that they do not overlap - forcing the opponents to present simultaneously to different public offers of employment -, that we be more agile and, ultimately, that we fix those problems that may be bureaucratically hindering the process of resolution of these calls. In addition, it is stated in the text that the selection system may reach the competitive stage by 40% of the total score, taking into account the time worked, the experience in the body, scale, or equivalent category. This is not an obstacle, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the draft law to be explicitly incorporated into the text that the opposition phase may not be eliminatory, according to the criteria of the respective autonomous communities. This fact will be exclusively the responsibility of the local and autonomous administrations, and we will therefore say - at the request of some groups - in the process of processing explicitly that this opposition phase may not be eliminatory. They are also aware that the validation of this text and the parliamentary process will also be able to articulate selective processes, which are negotiated in each of the AGE's territorial areas, autonomous communities and local authorities. In short, to articulate measures that enable such coordination between all administrations so that we can develop it in an orderly manner, without, if possible, movements between autonomous communities, an unwanted situation on the part of anyone and, therefore, to the extent of our possibilities and in the will that the administrations reflect, to be able to carry out concurrent processes that make, to the extent possible, the persons occupying the places compete in their autonomous community of reference. In any case, the processes will have to ensure the principles and compliance of free competition, equality, merit, capacity and publicity, as it cannot be otherwise. Without prejudice to this and, where appropriate, to the rules themselves, the selection system will be that of competition-opposition, as I told you, with an assessment at that stage of competition of 40% of the total score, with experience in the body and, as I say, not being eliminatory the exercises of the opposition phase. In the event that sector-specific legislation has been provided for, it is envisaged that mobility or internal promotion mechanisms will be pre-filled and compatible with stabilization processes. All this, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the exclusive powers of the Autonomous Communities. Another important fact that I would like to point out to you and which reflects the actual decree-law is that the specific needs of the local administration and, in particular, of the small municipalities are met, since mechanisms of collaboration with other administrations, parliaments or lobbyists can be articulated so that the selective processes can be carried out in a group and agile manner. Obviously, the solution to this complex problem, of course, does not satisfy all those affected, who aspire to own a place after years of chaining temporary contracts; but our will is to respond to all these situations. For this reason, this normative text envisages two measures specifically aimed at staff who may be affected by the stabilization process in the event that they do not exceed the relevant selective processes. Firstly, persons who have obtained a sufficient score, to be considered by the Autonomous Communities, may be included in the interim bags that are specific or are already in force. On the other hand, those who do not pass the selective process will have access to a financial compensation of 20 days of their fixed remuneration per year worked, up to a maximum of 12 monthly payments, i.e. compensation for the whole period they had been working under those conditions. Similarly, we have reached agreement with the political formations for the processing as a draft law of this text, to operationalize the application of article 61.6 of the EBEP in cases where the interims have remained in their job for ten years and that place has not been called in the corresponding job offers. I explain it in another way, so that your lordships understand me. It is a question of applying the exceptionality established by the EBEP to those persons with structural or interim contracts who are occupying a position for a period of ten years, and that that position has never been convened in any of the public offers of employment; so that this collective will not have to carry out the opposition phase. Even, the rule modifies article 10 of the consolidated EBEP text, specifying the cause and terms of appointment of interim staff, and does so only for four modalities. First, by vacancy, when it is not possible to cover it by career staff with an established duration. Secondly, for temporary replacement, during the time the holder is absent, for a necessary time. Thirdly, to implement temporary programmes such as, for example, to relieve waiting lists or to take care of situations of accumulation of tasks during a specific period. Finally, for this same exercise of accumulation of tasks for a maximum period of nine months, within a period of eighteen months. As you can see, these are preventive measures to make it a proactive situation to occupy the places for permanent staff, for career staff, and to ensure that we do not see ourselves in the future - as many of us have seen during the last periods of our history - to have to make extraordinary calls once it is found that the volume of temporary staff exceeds an optimal situation. It is clear - some parliamentary groups have also warned us - that there are certain services that require a certain amount of time, and I share that. This is the case, for example, of health, which is a service that has to be available 24 hours, seven days a week, 365 days a year. In this area, therefore, situations may arise which must be urgently addressed in order not to leave the services out of supply. We are given in the decree-law a period of one year, precisely for statutory and educational staff, so that we can better accommodate a rule that is able to solve this problem, without interfering with the necessary intervention that we sometimes have to do in hiring to ensure that services are available. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with the rule we improve the definition of the figure of interim staff, we give it greater rights, we strengthen the character of temporality in a set time and we determine the causes for the termination and duration of these contracts, establishing, moreover, non-discrimination between the legal regime of career staff and interim staff; a rule that is being applied by court judgments, where you know that we have been incorporating the recognition of the trienniums, professional careers and all the elements enjoyed by the staff and that, at first, in some of the initiatives, it left these staff out. From now on, what will be applied will have to be concurrent, at the same time regardless of whether it is career staff or acting staff. All of these measures establish as their sole purpose the consolidation of this model of quality public employment, a reform that is urgent to our country and that is also in the sense expressed to us by the public administrations. That is why I reiterate the desire that processing as a draft law will enable us to enrich, improve and seek solutions within the framework of legality, thus providing a useful service from this House for all public workers, for the administrations and, therefore, for the citizens who receive these services. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that policy has to allow us to solve problems and to do so from the strict, from the legal point of view; therefore, we cannot look elsewhere, nor would it be desirable for some people not to raise this attitude to these problems. That is why I ask you to vote, bearing in mind all that we have at stake at the moment and, above all, the stability of a very large number of people who during the pandemic - I think it is important to say - have shown exemplary behaviour in the development of their functions. Finally, and given the critical position of some parliamentary groups that this matter should be regulated in a real decree-law, I say to you that the use of the figure was fully justified regardless of whether, as I have already commented to you, we will accept processing as a bill. Firstly, because it was the only option to adopt policy reforms and planning measures with which to address our future, and secondly, because we have an urgent need to carry out these measures in the light of the judicial pronouncements that exist, still pending resolution with economic and social consequences linked to them. Thirdly and not least, for the commitments we have made in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan where public administration reform is a clear priority line. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule which I am presenting to you today for validation with all the commitments we have made during the dialogue with the groups in recent hours is committed to social justice, to legal certainty and to fulfilling Spain's commitments to the European Commission. This rule regulates solutions to the current situation of uncertainty affecting both temporary employees and administrations themselves and, therefore, it is a conscious, determined bet that this Government is pushing for measures to ensure stable and quality employment in this public sector. The public bet, the professionalization of the public employment model or the requirement of responsibilities to the administrations in making use of the figure of the interim staff have been the guiding principles of this royal decree law. For all this, I do not want to end without thanking the trade union organizations CSIF, the Workers' Commissions and UGT for the work they have done during this whole period, precisely in order to be able to reach reasonable, logical agreements that defend the rights of workers, which also allow those who are opposing to gain access to a job if that is their vocation and, on the other hand - perhaps the paramount - to really preserve the guarantee of the quality of the public services we provide to citizens. I think we all agree that this is what moves us: to have solid, safe, efficient services that a country like Spain deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope and hope that all the commitments entered into prior to the validation of this decree law and which will be reflected in its processing as a draft law - processing which we undertake to make ready, if the House so permits, before the end of October of the same year 2021 - will enable us to give certainty to the people and, above all, guarantee to the citizens. With that eagerness we make this intervention and with that eagerness we extend our hand for consensus and in the search for solutions that can be agreed between all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u86	Good afternoon. Spain, in fact, is suffering from a pandemic, a pandemic called the welfare state of politicians. Politicians in general live very well, dictate their norms from their castles without knowing the reality of the terrain, dictate their norms irresponsibly, produce disguised, produce small disasters, cause difficulties for many people and are totally irresponsible. No minister has ever responded because of the misdemeanours or damage caused by his or her political activity. No councillor, no councillor in Andalusia, for example, has paid for his demeanors. [[Applauds]] And this is a question that is the general tonic in Spain insofar as this bipartisanism is understood between themselves, they are part of this same problem and, in general, the disguised of the one does not correct them, makes a small makeup and more or less remains as they are. Let us think about these situations and the cases of PSOE corruption that when the PP comes to the government - let us think of Andalusia - they stay as they were, no one finds them out, no one knows anything, no one pays for the broken dishes. The same goes for the reverse: those cases of PP corruption that the PSOE, when it arrives, does marketing work, but really nothing is solved, it does not end the issues. VOX, unlike the People's Party, does not warn, VOX acts because it is out of this dynamic of bipartisanship. That's why VOX, when he sees a problem, tries to attack in the best possible way. Therefore, when there is a coup d'état, VOX resorts to the courts, sits the culprits in the bench and puts them in jail, although then bipartisanism comes to put them on the street. [[applause]] Let us also think about that state of illegal alarm. When VOX sees it, it takes it to the courts to be declared unconstitutional, annulled and has the appropriate consequences. VOX does not warn, VOX acts. [[Applauds]] And we warn you, now yes, that VOX will act, because, if you come to approve this royal decree-which for the reasons I will set out below has all the faces of being unconstitutional-, VOX will act. And we usually do it quite successfully, by the way. The Socialist Party brings us a real decree that seeks to tackle temporality in the work of the Administration. Those who listen to us from home will be surprised and will think: Administration, if they are officials. No, not all of them, many have been working in an absolute precarious situation for many years. Bipartisanism: both of them. That precariousness at work in the administration keeps growing. Today, it is estimated that there are some eight hundred thousand people affected by this precarious situation within the Administration. They are people between the ages of forty-five and fifty-five, a complicated age. It's 70% women. You who are so feminist, gentlemen of Podemos, where is the communist minister of Podemos today? You think that in university education the ratio of precariousness to work is 44.68%, according to your own royal decree; in health institutions, those health workers who have helped us so much, who have been applauded so much during the pandemic and with whom the PSOE and the PP are filled their mouths, there are 47.31% of precariousness to work and in non-university teaching, those teachers who teach our children, there are 51.2 % of precariousness to work, according to the written answers of this government. So, we see that there is this job insecurity in the administration and we see some ministers from Podemos, like Yolanda Díaz, very combative against the job insecurity in the private sector, which is around 23%; however, they keep quiet when they talk about the job insecurity in the public sector, which you control. [[Applauds]] This is the state of the welfare of politicians, they command for third parties, but the house itself remains a disaster. What does this royal decree mean? This royal decree has a series of measures which, more or less, can be summed up in the following: precarious workers of the Administration, you will go to a competition and you will play your places in that competition, you will study an opposition, you will take out the opposition and you will win your place; more or less it sounds logical. But, minister, what happens to those workers who are three years short of retirement, what happens to those workers who are fifty-five or fifty-six years old, three children and family burdens and have to prepare for the opposition and get out to win that square; basically, you are throwing the lions, never better said. You come and tell us that there is going to be an opposition contest, that perhaps the experience is worth 40%, that the autonomous communities will have to decide, that those who do not pull the opposition will go to new interim exchanges; minister, the legal insecurity that you are creating is absolute, and it makes a great deal of sense. It makes a great deal of sense because you yourself qualify the public offer of employment as farragosa; you have just said here that the processes of public offer of employment are farragosa and that this difficulty would justify the high percentage of interims you keep in the administration. The second point is that you are talking about a twenty-day compensation per year worked with a maximum of one year, just as the labour reform provides for so much crap that you are going to repeal. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, you are clinging to a labor reform that then remains adamant of criticism; it is absolutely surreal. It is a labor reform that, by the way, also hosted Workers' Commissions and UGT when they carried out their last ERE a few months ago. So, this thing that smells like hypocrite, doesn't smell like hypocrite, sucks like hypocrite, is simply surrealistic and is another reason why the vote against this royal decree-law is justified. You introduce a temporary limitation on interim contracts. This is fine - and here comes the following justification for which we oppose this decree-law - but the truth is that it was not necessary, minister, because the current drafting of the law already establishes a series of objective -objective limitations! Are you listening to me, because I see you don't look at me. I hope you're taking note of what I'm saying - a series of objective limitations, for temporary recruitment into the administration and successive governments have jumped to the chest. What we ask ourselves is why you were going to comply with this three-year limitation if you have failed to comply with the limitations that already exist - here comes another one of the answers - because, Minister, you do not establish any kind of penalty for non-compliance with the law. Administrations are systematically failing to comply with the law, so much so that the sentences have stated that workers are in law fraud in the administration and there are no consequences here. The state of the welfare of politicians, you commit illegalities that you then do not pay. [[Applauds]] If this situation were to occur in any private company, this company would be closed by now, the labor inspection would have prevented it from continuing its activity, and yet, as is the Administration, there is nothing wrong here. Worst of all, you recognize that fraud of law yourself. You yourself have said: So that there will be no further fraud of law. You acknowledge that the Administration is acting in law enforcement fraud and that there will be no consequences here of any kind. Last but not least, this royal decree-law rests the solution on the shoulders of the harmed. You expect the solution to be carried on your shoulders by the interims and the precarious workers of the Administration. You claim that they now win, in a contest, an opposition; contests that, on many occasions, passed thirty years ago when they won their position as interim officials. You claim that those who do not pass the evidence go home with one year's compensation. Minister, what is a fifty-five-year-old doing with three children, who are due three years to retire, with a one-year wage compensation? Absolutely nothing. You're sending these people home in the most absolute ruin and you don't put your face or color on them. Why? Because the welfare of politicians protects them. Yes, keep looking down, keep looking down, which you see is internalizing these reproaches. [[Applauds]] The reality, for everyone to understand and everyone to know, is that the Ministry of Finance and Public Service of the Socialist Party of Spain is raising the largest ERE in Spain. They are proposing an ERE based on a privileged regime that facilitates the labour reform of the PP - which they supposedly want to repeal - and they are sending 800,000 people to play their game, Minister, 800,000 people. I hope you look them in the face, which you're not doing to me. In short, the main reason why we are going to vote against and why we are asking all the public representatives to vote against is because we are in a situation where politicians are the culprits. Politicians have been offering temporary jobs to people for many years and, in law fraud, have kept them in such positions for longer than legally foreseen. [[Applauds]] You, Minister, should also send a message of thanks and tranquillity to the officials, because it is clear that the automatic conversion of precarious staff into civil servants would not be the solution. Let us bear in mind that the official staff of Spain remains of course because they have won it, remains in a position above which politicians come and go, comment on their dismays, but those who remain and those who fix all those...'shits'... - you said, minister? - are the officials. In short, Minister, gentlemen of the PSOE, you assume your responsibility. Please don't send out public servants who have worked so hard for Spain. Look into the eyes of those fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-sixty-sixty-year-olds, about to retire, and dare to tell them in the eyes that you send them to play their luck in a contest in absolute legal insecurity, because remember, as you say yourself...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u87	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u88	Remember, Minister, that you yourself say that all this regulation will be carried out by the Autonomous Communities, that is, we do not know how it will work. So, please, recapacitate. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the setting of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Finance and Public Service. Perhaps because this rule was conceived by another colleague, let me tell you that I didn't believe a single word of your argument, but the worst is that I fear you didn't believe it either. In any case, I will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law that violates the labour rights of almost 800,000 interim public employees, which inflamably complies with Community rules and European jurisprudence, which harms the workers concerned and destabilises their families, condemning them and making them victims of administrations. In short, in order to be a government that defines itself as committed to the workers, you hide it quite, Mrs Montero. With the measures contained in a legislative text that has many facets of unconstitutionality - which is a worrying distinction for a Government that already accumulates demolishing sentences - this new rule is condemned to a costly judicial peril, uncertain drift and very long in time. Mr Figaredo, deputy of VOX, has told you, and the one who warns is not a traitor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with another failure by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which, three years after reaching the presidency, drags the Spaniards into a situation in which quality and efficiency in the provision of services to citizens are shaken and leaves a poisoned legacy for the future of public service and administrations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, minister. New Canarias has already said every time that it has been possible that the abuse of temporality is a perversion of the democratic systems that in Spain has been the norm for many years, and that we have suffered all those who have had something to do with the world of public service. We therefore agree that it was necessary to regulate in order, on the one hand, to prevent this scourge from continuing to reproduce over time and, on the other hand, to deal with the enormously complex situations that have occurred precisely because of this perversion. If the royal decree-law came for its validation exclusively as it is, we would not have been able to support it in its entirety. We can support it because we agree that it should be treated as a bill. Why? Because there are portions that can be perfected. There is a first essential situation, which is that of the very many people who have suffered from an abuse of temporality over all these years. These people need a unique process, an extraordinary process of consolidation, with sufficient guarantees that no one will come and lay him down the next week in the Constitution. That's a situation. The other is the situation of emptying public administrations, a product of the ultra-liberal policies that have been followed in previous years committed to smashing public administrations. This implies brutal temporality rates and - a very important issue - the impossibility for a lot of people to submit to a public offer of employment in order to be able to access the public service that benefits these people and public administrations. For that reason, we believe that, if that dual objective is met, this is the way to address the issue, provided that it is clear that the situation of being abusing public workers through excessive timelessness should never be perpetuated again. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, does it not embarrass a government that says it is left-wing and progressive to say that this is the solution for 800,000 workers in law-enforcement fraud for abuse of time? Are you not ashamed to say that you are going to make the greatest public offer of employment and with that you are going to put an end to temporality, when you are going to do the biggest ERE in history and that the conditions of dismissal and compensation for public officials who have been working for thirty, twenty or ten years would not even be allowed to a private company? You lie when you interpret the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. You lie when you say that there is no constitutional solution, because there is the solution given by Emilia Casas, an express representative of the Constitutional Court, that was to create a figure by turning these employees into fixed personnel to extinguish, a constitutional, judicial and exceptional way. And not only that, but there are still 200,000 officials missing and there is a free call. You are currently telling cooks, teachers, nurses, health workers, SEPE and Justice people aged 50 or 60, with twenty or fifteen years of service, to go to the streets and to unemployment, despite European funds - because they are going to be billions - and need personal administrations to manage European funds. Consider the situation as you have done in Valencia and as you have done in the last budgets for staff in these conditions in public enterprises. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u96	Thank you, President. We will vote against the so-called 'icetazo' because we support the temporary workers who defend their jobs and who have organized themselves in recent months. Committed to these groups, we will vote no. We understand that it is the most consistent, because the account of the facts is no less. An abuse of the temporality is committed by the Administration, a lot of people are kept in law fraud and, however, when it comes to fixing this, those who pay the broken dishes are these workers with miserable compensations of twenty days per year worked. It will therefore be these 90,000 people in Catalonia, these 25 000 in the Valencia Country or you are 8000 in the Balearic Islands, mostly women, who pay for broken dishes in many cases and most likely with layoffs. This was not the only solution there was, it is not the only solution. The EBEP itself, the statute itself, allowed extraordinary solutions to stabilize the whole of the interim persons, and precisely today in the Parliament of Catalonia a much more guaranteed and much more committed law to the right of the interim and interim persons to know It was not the only way and, of course, it was not the only solution or solution that a left-wing Government would take, mainly for two reasons. First, because in the face of a possible conflict between two sectors of the working class - let us call it this - that is, between the officials and the interims, we choose to stay well with the former - that is why they sign the agreement Commissions, UGT and the CSIF union of officials - and to dispense with the latter, to turn their backs on the latter, much more precarious and much less organized. Splitting the working class and dividing sectors of workers is never a left-wing policy. Secondly, it is also not the option that a left-wing government would take because it implies a weakening of the public sector in line with the cuts that Zapatero already started at the time and that the People's Party continued with laws such as the LRSAL. Dismissing public workers is never a leftist policy. This news is from last week. [[shows a copy of a news]] I guess it's a bad read. I read it: 'SEPE outsources unemployment management while firing 1500 workers'. This is the fundamental dynamic: to weaken the public sector and to consolidate more and more externalisations. Therefore, there are no public workers of any kind left, and that is why we will vote no.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u97	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u98	Eskerrik asko, president. Madam Minister, without taking into account the reality and needs of the Basque administrations, without agreeing with the Basque trade union majority, without taking into account the proposals of the affected themselves - of the interim ones themselves - without dialogue with the progressive forces of this House, without taking into account the proposals that we have sent to the Government and, consequently, without a clear majority at the moment that it approves this decree, so you have acted with this decree, rather decree. Therefore, by not accepting the issues we have raised, we will vote against today. You wrote a decree without any prior conversation, passed it without anyone and brought it here waiting for the progressive forces to swallow and approve it because yes, because you dictate it. No, that's not how things are done. That is not how consensus is worked, that is how good agreements are not achieved for citizens and workers, which should be the goal shared by all the progressive and leftist forces of this House; workers who will again be the great victims of this situation today. He will tell me that the decree has the approval of social dialogue; the Madrider, because I remind him that what you call social dialogue does not represent either our social majority or our union majority and therefore does not respond to our own reality. Because this state, which will be plurinational and multilingual, is also pluri-union, and this is something that is very often forgotten. The Basque trade union majority pointed out from the first moment the shortcomings of this decree and also put forward its proposals to correct it. You ignored them and didn't even sit down and negotiate. If they had done so, they would know that in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre there are more than 70,000 women workers in the public sector who suffer from the precariousness of temporary recruitment, especially in sectors as important as health and education, and that the temporaryity exceeds 40%. These are inconceivable figures that this decree does not shorten, but opens the door to possible redundancies and subcontractions, prevents by means of replacement fees the staff necessary for the proper functioning of the Administration and perpetuates the precariousness. Far from curbing temporality, this decree adds more uncertainty to the thousands of people in this situation. Even so, although we knew that it was a bad decree, which did not respond to the needs or demands of the affected group, we tried to act responsibly and transferred a proposal that substantially improved the decree to them. We have waited until the last moment for a clear commitment on your part to include these demands, but it has not arrived. We have proposed to them four clear commitments to include in this decree: that the first phase of the stabilization processes should not be eliminatory, thus being able to access the merit phase; that all staff of the Administration who have been in a temporary situation for more than three years, who had previously passed a selective process and who, owing to the non-convocation of processes, could not have been able to directly access the merit phase; that the replenishment rate should be suspended through the 2022 State General Budgets until at least 8% of the time, and that it should also be clear that the autonomous communities and their public administrations have the capacity to define their consolidation processes according to their situation and that a safeguard should be expressly introduced so that Navarra could exercise its full powers in the field of public service. They are all basic, logical and reasonable proposals. But, Minister, as is currently the case, this decree does not solve the serious problem of interinity that thousands and thousands of workers have endured for so many, so many years, and you know it. They have tried to put a patch, a patch that will not change the situation, that will not end the problem and that will also ignore Europe's guidelines on this issue. Madam Minister, I may seem a little harsh to you, but believe me, it would be even more so if Mr Iceta, the architect of this decree, were here. It has been hard because we would like you to understand that it is you who must win the support of the groups, not the other way around. It is you who must share the legislative agenda and be permeable to the demands made to them by the left forces and by the collectives affected by their laws, and not to expect us to support them because they do. This is neither the way forward nor the progressive majority that exists in this House is strengthened. I hope that you will reflect, listen to and assist those affected and the majority Basque trade unions. We hope that they will also dialogue with the groups in this House not at the last minute, not at the last hour, and that they will appreciate and accept the proposals we make to them. We hope that, whether this decree finally passes this procedure or not, from tomorrow we will begin to speak in order to make a good decree that responds to the demands of the workers and ends once and for all with the precariousness that they have endured for so many years. If your commitment is clear, I will show you our willingness to start tomorrow, because our only objective remains and is once again to improve the conditions of Basques and Basques and also of public service workers. Madam Minister, let's start working from now on to make a good decree. Don't miss this opportunity. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u100	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of urgent measures to reduce the temporaryity of public employment and also to prevent new temporaryity exchanges in the future. Both blocks of measures also respond to the need to adapt the Spanish legal system to Directive 1999/70, which welcomes the framework agreement on fixed-term work, and to the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union concerning the fourth and fifth clauses of that framework agreement, as well as to give a positive response to the repeated recommendations of the European institutions on the need for Spain to put an end to its high rates of temporaryity; recommendations which have been accepted, as we have already been told, through reform 1 of component 11 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan sent to Brussels at the end of April. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group shares the need to reduce the very high structural rate of temporaryity in the public sector and to prevent it from happening again. However, we believe that the decree-law we are discussing does not adequately address this issue, at least in all its aspects, without prejudice to the fact that some of its issues could be resolved if it were to be dealt with as a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, much of the objections and suggestions that many autonomous communities expressed at the various meetings of the Sectoral Conference on Public Administration and the Committee for the Coordination of Public Employment have not been met. Thus, some compromise has always been called for on the limitation of replacement rates, which has been the main cause of the high structural rate of temporaryity in public employment and which is mostly concentrated in the public services of education, health, health, justice, social services and public administration that supports all public services; replacement rates that can again become the future Achilles heel of the welfare state if, like those suffered almost uninterruptedly since 1993 and in order not to leave vacancies and without coverage public services, they again lead us to high rates of temporaryity because they cannot offer them in OPE. For this reason, we do not share the budgetary adequacy measures of the third additional provision; nor do we agree that the same additional provision contains an authorization - which is actually a limitation - to cover vacancies with temporary staff when this is consistent with the principles of public employment regulation; nor do we agree that the only temporary vacancies to be filled are only those that lead to retirement, when there may be other causes for untitled positions, regulation which, by the way, covers a replacement rate. We also see a clear improvement in the regulation of economic compensation. Thus, for the stabilization processes that are open and non-restricted, we wonder whether it is just cause for their perception of the loss of employment by not overcoming a selective process, regardless of whether the situation of abuse occurs on the person suffering under clause 5 of the framework agreement. We also wonder whether it is reasonable to pay full financial compensation to anyone who could be rehired, despite having suspended and lost his or her job, as he or she has been placed in acting bags, as he or she enables or enables the fourth additional. And we also wonder, together with many autonomous communities and local authorities, whether these compensations should not be paid by the State, since this structural interinity has been generated, in many cases, after repeated replacement rates imposed since 1993 in most state budget laws. The same non-positive assessment has to be made of the regulation of compensation for temporary recruitment proceedings as from the entry into force of the Decree-Law for its link to short and difficult deadlines to fill vacancies with fixed staff when appeals to the courts, both of the OPEs and of the summonses, can paralyse the selection processes until final judgements. On the other hand, Your Honor, the stabilization processes envisaged in the Decree-Law also give rise to various concerns, beyond those already mentioned, regarding the times of management and completion of the processes and for the reasons already set out. Thus, we will highlight, among other issues, the limitation of stabilization to positions that have been temporarily and uninterruptedly occupied at least in the three years preceding December last year, i.e. vacancies that have been continuously filled for three years by interim staff but that have been able to change their temporary title. That is why, Your Honor, we wonder what happens to the places that have been less time but covered also indefinitely by temporary staff and which today are in that circumstance. Neither these vacancies nor their occupants will be subject to the stabilization process, owing to the time constraints that are articulated, nor to the new regulation of EBEP on the maximum duration of a temporary stay in a vacancy, because the transitional second of the Decree-Law states that these EBEP measures, article 1 of the Decree-Law, apply only to contracts signed after the entry into force of the Decree-Law. In short, we wonder what it makes sense to leave this stock exchange before the decree-law - or, if so, the future law - without incorporating it into a stabilization process and without being able to apply to its temporary occupants the new provisions of the EBEP. I mean, we think they're left in limbo and this doesn't seem reasonable to us. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finalizing - the decree-law raises legal concerns for us, questions human resources policies of autonomous communities and obvious part of their proposals. We all share the concern about the structural temporality in public employment both from respect for security in the employment of people - as you have pointed out, Minister - as well as the best provision of public services, but the decree-law has, in our opinion, remarkable shortcomings that should be addressed in future procedures if they become possible, in addition to remedying the lack of a safeguard clause with respect to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u101	Mr. Legarda, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u102	Yeah, it's over. Two words. ... as regards the application of its provisions to the outside authorities, as now provided for in the second additional EBEP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u104	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I understand that it is you, as a new holder of these powers, who makes this intervention, but I do not think it is acceptable that the author of this royal decree, Mr Iceta, is not here. It is not prohibited for the author of this royal decree to occupy the seat so that at least he can also take over this action of his Government. [[applause]] Look, one has the feeling that the government and the groups supporting it - and also some of the opposition - are addressing for the first time a matter of concern to the interim staff for at least twenty years; and I say twenty years because it was in 2001 that Europe issued the directive which continues to fail to comply in Spain today and which basically calls for two very specific aspects: non-discrimination between fixed and temporary staff and the prohibition of the abuse of time. Twenty years have passed, there have been Socialist Party governments, there have been People's Party governments and nothing has been done, no one has listened to the interim. I am saying this because the government is coming here today and this seems to have been a thing of the past few months. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem which has existed for a very long time and which has resulted in certain situations which are known to all. We're talking about people chaining up to three hundred contracts in a year. We are talking about people who have been in this situation for eight or nine years, waiting for a selective process that has not taken place in twelve years. Imagine a person with proven experience and commitment who has to access this process at a delicate time personally or at fifty-five or sixty years, as has already been said here. What do we tell them? That they're compensated and ready? And who compensates you all these years for successive inactions of the PP or PSOE governments? A person who has endured up to thirty or forty appointments while acting is once again required to prove his worth without ever having been ceased, and it seems that a favor is being done to him. Spain has been witnessing a consolidation of the abuse of temporality for a long time, and this is what the Court of Justice of the European Union has told us, which has given these groups the reason on numerous occasions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Iceta - who is not - we do not have a problem with the current situation, we have a fundamental, structural problem, and the answer offered by the Government is not that it is short, but that it does not seem to us to exist. And we will see if this decree is further granted to the separatists in the form of you going to know what. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who are in an interim situation - who are up to 30% of public servants in the case of autonomy - are not only that they have a temporary contract that does not correspond to their situation of years of service, but that they are limited by their type of contract many vital circumstances such as, for example, something as basic as asking for a mortgage. That is why, at the very least, Mr.Iceta, the fleeting minister of this portfolio, intends to fix this with a decree made in a few months, and something else! Do you intend to seek Mr. Iceta's approval for something that doesn't seem to be approved by his boss, Mr. Sánchez? Because you've given him very little time in this competition. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there are many causes that make the high rate of temporality a structural problem: cuts and the containment of public spending in recent years; the disparity between the size of needs and the real capacity to finance needs; that there is no strategic planning in calls or agility. Does anyone think this can be arranged by a royal decree? Because it turns out that this is the form already normalized and naturalized by this government for anything. What is the basis of this urgency? The minister told us that the high rate of temporaryity compromises and affects the work of professionals, that if the European commitments... But then, why have they been allowing these poor-quality public services for three years - as it would be said - and they are doing nothing? Because quality is also related to interinity. Or why do they exclude from this decree health personnel and teaching staff, who are precisely responsible for such essential services? Moreover, if you really wanted to have done so quickly, you had a very good opportunity to have started when, from my group, we have already put an amendment to the budgets to deal with this situation of abuse of time. That is why, when we come to this point, let us clarify here the problem to which we want to respond. It is not a punctual situation, but the abuse of temporality and the situations of fraud for which Spain has been warned, punished or condemned. This causes vital frustration and boredom among hundreds of thousands of public servants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are neither satisfied nor can we be satisfied with this decree. We consider it insufficient because it lacks a real solution for those who are in a situation of fraud. We have discussed this issue once in the Commission and they know the position of Citizens. We advocate starting the house on the foundations and we run away from makeup operations like this. Believe me, the interims who are listening to us today, who are so many, will thank us. We have a solution that we have already expressed. The government is talking about 300,000 people, which is not very small, but the figure could be around 800,000. It's not clear at all. How do you intend to address a problem without knowing exactly its dimension? That is why we ask for a map of fraud to be drawn up, to see who has been in this situation for at least three years and whether their situation is in line with the conditions that motivated it. In addition, where it is shown that the relationship is successive, the Administration will not be able to offer the place until the public employee hired for fraud of law is compensated and the sanction is applied to the Administration. It should be ensured that public administrations keep their job relationships up to date, that they approve calls in time and that there is a planned human resources strategy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, neither you nor any government deserve this Parliament to give a green light to a patch like this when we have had a structural problem for more than twenty years, which has already condemned hundreds of thousands of Spaniards not to leave temporary employment and to spend more of a half-life working in chains of vacancies and, worse still, to carry out a public service to this country which is not recognized with capital letters or suited to its functions. A decree law is the easy way out to which they are accustomed, but it seems to us essential to put an end to fraud and save us more reproach and reproach from Europe. Finally, I am afraid that if this House is responsible, the next law, which I hope is a law and that you will bring it to us, Minister, and not Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u105	Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u106	... because it is not that he lacks authority for it, but that his own boss, Mr. Sánchez, has taken it from him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u108	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG will vote against the validation of this decree, in defense of a just solution for interim staff in abuse of temporality and law fraud and also in line with the majority trade unionism in my country, in Galicia, which rejects this decree for reasons similar to those we are going to explain at this time. The Government, in meetings with trade unions, announced three lines of action to reduce the high rate of temporaryity in public employment, all of which are necessary to achieve this goal now and in the future. According to the Government itself, the amendment to the EBEP should address the flexibility of the troop replacement rate, although the BNG and trade unions, such as the Galega Inter-Union Confederation in Galicia, continue to demand the elimination of this troop replacement rate because it is one of the keys. And finally, a stabilization process should be addressed. However, only one of these three reforms is now being addressed, the amendment of the EBEP, which alone cannot solve the problem, since, for the first time, no proposal is envisaged that the abuse of temporary recruitment results in the creation of new fixed positions and their incorporation into public employment offers. Nor does the text incorporate an exceptional solution to the problem of cumulative temporality, relying on genuine processes of job consolidation, respecting all areas of territorial or sectoral negotiation and taking into account their specificities. Thus, in the event that temporary staff cease to be employed, they will not be entitled to compensation. We believe that the establishment of a trial period is unnecessary, as it should not be required for people who have already passed a selective regulated process. Nor can we share any other aspect of the proposal, such as the denial of the right to a professional career to acting staff until they become a career officer.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u110	In short, we cannot give our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u111	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u112	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, we are going to vote no, for several reasons. Of the genesis, of the gestation of the royal decree-law, I will not speak to you because, indeed, it is not responsible, but I want to make just one point: when you come here and bring in a royal decree-law without having spoken before with the parliamentary groups and say that you have already agreed - in this case, within the framework of the Public Service and with some unions - you know that this is not enough, because the ones we vote here are the deputies, and more specifically in the case of Catalonia, where the unions that end up signing this agreement in many of the public administrations in Catalonia are not majority and do not represent the public workers in Catalonia. But, in any case, that is not a determining factor. On the two issues raised by the Royal Decree-Law, we agree that we have a problem that needs to be solved and that the timing in the public administration is not welcome in the current parameters. Therefore, in the first part of the first article we can agree, beyond the nuances on how this is solved from here to the future, but we do not agree on how you propose to solve the problem that we have created with these hundreds of thousands of interims - I no longer dare to quantify them, about 800 000 - in the public administration of the whole Spanish State. The solution that you propose is the following. The active subject - that is, the public administration - poses to the passive subject - the interim persons - the following: we have a problem, we will solve it, but the effort to solve this problem will not be done by the active subject, but by the passive subject. We understand that within the framework of strict constitutionality there may be solutions that do not require - as you are proposing - an opposition contest, with more or less nuanced, and we understand that it is not the same situation as that of that interim that has been in the public administration for four years as that of that interim that has been in the public administration for fifteen or twenty years. Moreover, if the royal decree is passed as it is, it will create a problem especially in local corporations, in municipalities, even if you say you make an effort. Therefore, we have to vote categorically not and, in the event that in the end the parliamentary arithmetic allows them to carry out the real decree-law, we are going to put forward amendments so that they are corrected, beyond what you have announced, some aspects for the benefit of the whole Public Service and for the benefit of the interim ones.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Bell, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u114	Good morning, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that we are surprised that a government that calls itself the most progressive in history has passed a royal decree-law so frontally contrary to the interests of public workers and therefore to the quality of public services. We can expect everything from the Socialist Party, but we are really anxious to see what the United We can say, which has already voted in the Council of Ministers in favour of this royal decree-law, and also what the other partner parties of the government will tell us to vote in favour. What face will they put before their bases and voters, what face will they put before the unions after supporting this measure? We all know what the fundamental problem is: an abuse of temporary recruitment in the public sector that has generated a huge precarious job market, with a very important personal impact and a gender bias, because it is particularly serious in the most feminized groups: education, health, social services, etc. We are going to oppose the validation of this royal decree-law because there is absolutely no reason to abstain, let us say no more to vote in favour. Mr. Iceta's replacement in the Ministry of Territorial Policy, Mrs. Rodriguez, has spoken a lot about lessons to the independenceists in recent days, but here the only lesson has been given by Mr. Iceta, a lesson specifically of forepower, arrogance, lack of common sense and what should not be done if you want a law passed. Firstly, Mr Iceta presents an initiative without any kind of dialogue with the groups concerned. We have spoken with the majority unions among the public workers in Catalonia and all agree in a frontal opposition to the proposal. Secondly, Mr Iceta has used an emergency procedure, the Decree-Law, which nullifies any possibility of debate in order to comply with a European directive twenty-one years ago. Where's the emergency? Please, let's be serious, we're talking about changing a basic Public Service standard like EBEP. Finally, the decree does not comply with the rules in European case law, it does not provide for any sanctioning measure which might deter the State from continuing with the temporaryity and fraud of the law and, in fact, the selective processes of free access and the compensation of 20 days per year worked; on the contrary, what they do is to perpetuate the situation of abuse and put hundreds of thousands of jobs at risk. In short, to put an end to the exceptional abuse of the temporality of the public sector, to give stability and stability to public workers, this is not the way. Finally, our condolences to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, for being the victim of Mr.Iceta's heavy joke of leaving him this poisoned inheritance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u116	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Or not. Let's see. First of all, I want to say that they probably had a problem with Iceta because it was a very short time Minister of Civil Service and Territorial Administrations and they did not tell him that they did not have an absolute majority and that, therefore, all the rules with a certain impact, apart from agreeing with those whom you believe appropriate, which does not mean that it represents what we believe should be the negotiation, must be agreed with the Members and the parliamentary groups. And that's a warning for navigators, because, as everyone knows, we've changed our position exactly in five hours. I think we're doing well and that's why we're going to do it, and I think we owe an explanation to all the people who were hoping for a vote from us and who are going to meet another. In the diagnosis, all the forces that we are here coincide: 800,000 people or 300,000, according to the smaller calculations, are at a time when they can lose their jobs because of the inaction and the inability of the administrations to summon the places when they were playing and because of the great capacity that the State has had not to relax the replacement rates. The state creates the problem. The autonomous communities and local authorities must provide services to the citizenry, but the replacement rate is in the hands of the State, in a way and in a way that, in fact, the General Administration of the State has a temporality of 8% and, therefore, for a long time they have done as if it were not with them, and we have accumulated in the communities, in the municipalities, in the diputations and in other local authorities all that high rate of temporality. Indeed, someone said it, in health, in teaching, in residences, with caregivers, with - someone also said - an elderly staff and a basically feminized staff. That's all true. And it is also true that the decree-law that it presents did not have to be managed through urgency nor did it have to reach this Congress without sufficient support. That's right, but here we are. And what is our job? When we process this bill - because, I also tell you, if we lay it down today, they will hardly present us with a better one because they will agree with the right-wings - we will introduce all the guarantees that we have been maintaining for two years to ensure that European jurisprudence is complied with and that workers' rights are respected. Indeed, we have reached an agreement. For us it is essential that article 61.6 of the Basic Staff Regulations be recognized as applicable in certain cases, because the truth is that if you recognize it as applicable in one case, you can extend it to the rest. What have we agreed to? Let it apply to collectives who have had no opposition in ten years, and during the process of the bill, since you have accepted this to be introduced into the bill, we will try to extend it. What else have we accepted? That the evidence is not eliminatory. The truth is that we propose that the tests should not in any case be eliminational, but there we have been told that they are colliding with the autonomic skills; look! They now realize that there are autonomous powers, but let's show that we respect it. In any case, in our administrations we will be able to make those tests not eliminatory in opposition calls, so that we do not always have Damocles' sword on our backs, because if not everything is unconstitutional and automatically appealed. [[applause]] What else do we get? At the very least, we have managed to achieve that during the term of this royal decree, which is very short because the other aspect of the negotiation has been that in mid-October we will have the bill processed and approved and, therefore, it will be of a minimum duration... Yes, honourable Members, we too know that the deadlines for amendments are being delayed, but we have an agreement, and at this moment we will see the sincerity and loyalty of the Socialist Group. We must do this, because if we do not - I insist - the old EBEP would remain in force, and that allows any Administration to summon the places. Therefore, I ask what is safer for those 800,000 people to whom we want to give rights, we want to give stability and we want to give justice, and at this very moment, accepted Article 61.4, accepted that it will be in October and accepted that the evidence will not be eliminatory, is to give the possibility of being processed. But I warn you that we are going to be waiting to introduce other things, because it is true that we believe that European jurisprudence does not allow people who are abused and who are not, to compete in the same open oppositions, and that they have put it white on black; therefore, it must be moved to the bill. We also believe that the compensation that you have planned for the future is really scarring and petty and that it has to do with a job reform that we no longer know how to ask for a derogation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have one last chance to comply with your agreements. Please, for once, be up to speed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for defending the decree. It is true that we share with other groups that the situation that has left you is a little difficult in something that your team and you have not exactly been working on before. Therefore, it has been given to him in some way. We understand that there were three elements in this royal decree that were from the first moment on the table and that it was necessary to attend, which have been tried to attend. On the one hand, there was the need to adapt Spanish legislation to compliance with Directive 1999/70 of the European Union and the framework agreement on fixed-term work contained therein and, on the other hand, the need to reduce the very high levels of precariousness, temporaryity and abuse of time in public administrations and the situation of the hundreds of thousands of temporary and temporary workers - who were possibly least concerned about the content of the decree - who, as a result of this failure to adapt Spanish legislation to the European directive, have been working in a situation of abuse of time for many years. We understand that in the first question, the question of the adaptation of the rules, everything is very clear. In fact, there are infringement proceedings initiated against Spain to see whether or not it actually complies with the clauses of that framework agreement, infringement procedure 2014/4224 and infringement procedure 2014/4334. On the other hand, there is the judgment - which has already been cited here - of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 March 2020 and the order of 2 June 2021, which basically tell us something that is very serious, that the Spanish State had legislation that allowed and in some way even protected situations of abuse with temporary staff working for public administrations. We therefore believe that a considerable effort has been made to change this legislation and to bring it into line with European legislation; that it has been established, as requested by European legislation, that the maximum number of years that people may be occupying these temporary situations is limited; that responsibilities are called on the administrations; that the administration is given the opportunity to cease on its own initiative when they fail to comply with the maximum period of years and, moreover, that this place can be filled only by career staff, etc. We understand that that part was less problematic and could probably even have some support and agreement in this House. There is one part that has also been mentioned that has to do with compensation. It is true that we believe that they could be higher, because compensation is collected which, at the level of what we have criticized of the labour reform of the People's Party, does not seem appropriate to us. But the main problem we have seen, above all, is how the situation of interim staff already in abuse has been managed. We believe that it is very clear that the very approach of the decree is telling us that an abuse is being committed and, therefore, if an abuse is being committed, we believe that the response of the Administration to that abuse cannot be to commit an even greater injustice with this staff; that injustice would, of course, be to go out on the street and with very little compensation. Therefore, we analyzed it and made it clear from the very first moment that the content of the decree had to be improved and that it had to be made more fair for staff who had been in temporary abuse. We made a number of approaches that were minimal approaches, because we understood that all avenues were possible. We understood that, in the end, it was a question of political will, that even the path of fijeza could have been studied and analysed, but we also understand that there are two parties in this House, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, which are never going to accept that path. Between the two are an absolute majority and, therefore, trying to negotiate on that key made no sense. That is why we propose at least two solutions, and we are glad that they are finally being contemplated in the announcement you have made here. On the one hand, Articles 61.6 and 61.7 of the EBEP, which will examine the possibility that, under certain conditions, only the figure of the merit competition will be used for some of these workers; and on the other hand, the minimum minimum, minimum, is that, for the aggregate of workers in situations of abuse, when they are to be presented to the selection processes, the experience that they have accumulated as a result of this abuse and are not obliged to approve an opposition so that they reach the merit stage is calculated. [[Applauds]] We understand that this is being collected, that there is a will to be worked on and that there is a will that, through its processing as a bill, these guarantees to improve the situation of justice with the interim and interim groups will be incorporated. For that reason, it is not that we are satisfied with the content of the decree, but we do believe that significant progress is being made and that if these are actually taken to the negotiating table, the deadlines have been agreed and the contents are reflected, there will be a substantial improvement in the situation of these people. Surely, many of them and of them today will feel more calm than they did yesterday when they only knew the previous content of the decree. However, we want to say - we believe it is important too, as other groups have already said - that we must take note of what has happened. It is true that on such an important subject as this, when moreover the positions of the different groups were well known because we have discussed it a lot in this House and in the Commission, it was well known that presenting a text such as the one presented was going to create problems and what the positions of the groups were. Please, before presenting such an important text, when we also have to meet deadlines because we have committed ourselves to Europe, do so by talking first to the groups in this House, trying to negotiate the content and bringing it here with the guarantee that it will come forward and that we will not have to be in a last-minute negotiation, in which, in the end, everything is negotiated against clocks and things cannot be done the way it should on such serious issues as this. We shall therefore vote in favour. We do not entirely like the content of the decree. We believe that progress is being made and, by that means, our commitment will be that in its handling as a bill we will continue to fight to improve as much as possible the content of the decree and to prevent one of these people who have been in a situation of temporary abuse from being seen on the street and with compensation that is the lowest scale of labour reform. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u120	Good afternoon, Madam President and Members. Madam Minister, it is up to you today to defend Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 from urgent measures to reduce the temporality of public employment. They have made it clear that the Civil Service for this Government is a minor and unimportant issue, since in less than two years they have changed minister three times. After the bandits and the lack of continuity in public administration policy, we see that in the end they have imitated the People's Party government, as they have incorporated in their ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the matter of public service. You, in this royal decree-law are falsely closing the serious problem of the temporality of public employment. They create more problems than solutions, containing in their regulation genuine gaps and normative inaccuracies, to which I will then refer. Although in a first reading it seems that they have copied the stabilization processes of the People's Party Government in terms of affecting structural positions, provided with budgetary resources, temporarily occupied and uninterrupted the previous three years, there are great differences in the absolute lack of technical and legal solutions to reduce temporality, but above all the great difference is in form. The People's Party government brought to this House, for debate and approval, the processes of stabilization of public employment in the 2017 and 2018 State General Budget laws. You, in the authoritarian line, do so through the abusive royal decree-law, legal figure foreseen for situations of extraordinary and urgent need, circumstance that we do not understand in what or where you appreciate it now, when you are ruling since 2018. Nor do you yourselves believe the need for this express regulation and an obvious proof is the overwhelming and extensive explanation contained in the explanatory statement of reasons for trying to justify its use, not only because you expressly acknowledge that this is a structural problem but because you dedicate it to an extension no less than three times greater than the explanatory statement than to the normative content, than to the articulated content. Nor is Mr Sánchez very convinced of this opportunity, when he has just ceased as a minister precisely to the promoter of what is colloquially called 'icetazol', something in which the minister also agrees, since when he was defending the decree-law he had a lapsus and said 'compassion' instead of 'compassion'. Therefore, the subconscious has failed him. These unwarranted haste and nervousness are also being seen in the call of this Extraordinary Plenary for validation. The abusive and authoritarian use of the decree-law has been recriminated by the Constitutional Court, in estimating the remedies brought by my parliamentary group, nullifying some of those you approved, taking advantage of the, also declared unconstitutional, state of alarm. This abuse also represents an absolute disregard for the legislative power by removing from the Chambers the calm and pertinent debate of the usual parliamentary procedure. It also prevents the participation of associations and collectives affected by their regulation and also involves obviating reports and disregard for reports of consultative bodies. We believe that the Government should have brought a bill to this House so that such an important issue, such as temporary public employment, would have enjoyed consensus, debate and participation by all the parties concerned. As for what he pointed out about this decree-law closing a problem falsely, it is because, first of all, there is no contract for the financing of these compensations that are to be paid to temporary public employees who do not exceed the selective stabilization processes. How do you get paid? From what budget, that of the autonomous communities, that of the State, that of the local entities? In addition, there will be a overlap in the time of several stabilization processes at the same time, in which some will be entitled to compensation and others will not. There are even certain places and jobs that are going to be affected by both a consolidation process and a public job offer, and you do not determine what you prefer, pure and hard opposition or the consolidation process. Not only does it not resolve it, it will certainly increase litigation. Another serious discrimination will occur depending on the autonomous community or local entity in which they are presented, since there is not even a minimum design of these tests of access to different subgroups, even if, moreover, for local entities, articles 8 and 9 of Decree 896/1991 laying down the basic rules for access to local entities have not been implemented. It also establishes the incorporation into a work bag of persons who do not pass the process, but leaves to the determination of each call the note that must be reached in order to pass. You do not even clarify whether or not there is compatibility between the perception of compensation and the immediate incorporation into that stock exchange and even the recruitment by the Administration itself. We believe that this should be very delimited in order to avoid possible law fraud. Nor have they made in Public Service an analysis of the posts, of the places; we do not really know how many places and how many posts are occupied, if it is by the same or different person. There has been no analysis and, most importantly, there has been no objective determination of what is considered a fraud of law in the abuse of temporary recruitment, which is very important because, once we have the diagnosis, we could have put in place appropriate measures subject to the consensus of the autonomous communities, the trade unions and the FEMP. That is why, for all the reasons set out above, we cannot support this royal decree-law, and in the event that it is validated, we request that it be treated as a draft law so that, from my group, the text can be improved - there is a lot to be improved - and, of course, the relevant amendments can be tabled in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by setting a position on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 14/2021, thanking the work of Minister Iceta and her team to bring it here and also the defence that Minister Montero does in her presentation and, above all, in her announcements. This demonstrates - I thank the two ministers for their presence in the debate - the clear will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government to give a solution when here, in this debate, I have not heard a single one of those who are against it. You come here, to this debate, only with the idea of whether you can harm the government, to see if you can introduce a minimum chance of doing harm, but without a single proposal and with a lot of populism, because if we are serious in this country and in this House, we have to accept three premises: first, that there is a serious problem in our country's public administrations, and even Europe has told us so; second, that a serious government and a serious Parliament have no choice but to tackle a subject with multiple edges, with a case that would be inextricable in the seven minutes that I have, to bring about a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, some complain that nothing is done, and when it is done, they also complain. I think that's completely incongruous. I wanted to tell you that in this debate the Socialist Group is clear that there was no magic solution, but here we have a solution, ladies and gentlemen, because if there is no legal certainty about the position of public workers, in this case in abuse, they have nothing, they have no umbrellas. I hope you don't mind, but I'm going to confess to a conversation I had yesterday with a temporary public worker from my own administration, that I too am a public employee. He said to me, "Sometimes I prefer to have a legal umbrella so that my Administration can be forced to consolidate itself before I go directly to an opposition and be sent home. I think it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that much demagogy is being done here in this respect. I am also addressing many temporary workers who, as you well know, have been trying for a long time to get into the head that there was going to be a law in this Parliament to make them civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is your proposal, say so, but I say to you that, constitutionally, it is not possible; it is not possible to make temporary workers civil servants. So what is the government doing, what is the Socialist Group doing, what are the groups that are going to support this validation? Something important - and Minister Montero has said -: with the opposition of some, we will not move forward; with the processing as a bill, we move forward in that consensus, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is essential that that is clear at the moment. I am referring to another issue to focus the debate a little more. If we do not create legal certainty to start an extraordinary process of consolidation, it is impossible, because we would go to the offer of public employment, to the pure and harsh opposition, without any right for the workers. And with this royal decree-law and the announcements of improvement we are giving them legal certainty, an opportunity and in the vast majority of cases they will see the light at the end of the tunnel. I think it is essential to recognize that. Let me be told here that nothing has been done, as I have heard from some groups... Forgive me. I'm starting with Citizens. You speak of twenty years ago; twenty years ago you were not, but at the pace you have been, in one year you will not be either. That's what's going to happen to them directly. To hear in this debate that the People's Party, which is one of the fundamental causes that in the years of Rajoy's government there was a zero replacement rate, comes here to oppose, when very few days ago, Mrs De Luna, in the Committee on Territorial Policy and Public Service, defended a PNL that came to say this - it is in the Journal of Sessions -, man, it is an incongruity, it is an incongruity. I know that you have been told in your group: get up there, say what you have to say to vote against, see if we are lucky enough to bring down a royal decree-law to the government. Frankly, for a party that is said to be a state party and for a party that is said to be a government party, it is a tremendous irresponsibility and, of course, it is going to pass them a bill. [[Applauds]] But I tell you more, when what the Government does is to take into account the minimum needs of the smaller municipalities that have no technical capacity, when it talks with the Directors General of Public Service of all administrations and the FEMP in the Coordination Commission that comes from the sector for a year, when there most of the autonomous communities have debated and said what they wanted but none have given a magic formula, especially those of the People's Party, it is a tremendous irresponsibility to come here now to know what. Your Honor, I'm really sorry. But I also sincerely say this, because it comes to my mind now: Have you become an anti-system party? Aren't you going to have to apply these formulas where you govern, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities? Do you not see that there is an opportunity to improve among all so that it is a proposal of all in the parliamentary process? Is it not for you? Really, I would have given just as much as we would have brought, I would have given just as much as this came with the endorsement of the three great unions in this country and under the dialogue with all, because something has been said here that I do not think is welcome. In our country, the General Negotiating Bureau has rules, and in it are represented all the unions that have representation. Therefore, there has been dialogue with everyone. Now, it's true that there hasn't been agreement with everyone, of course. But I know very few agreements in our country's history that have the overall framework of the entire General Negotiating Bureau, because there are other interests in it. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear to your right-wing lordship that you have come to this stage to talk about public employment when you have voted against the fact that the Community of Madrid launches in a committee of inquiry what has happened with the residences has no further journey, Your Honor. Because you talk about public employment when you've done this, you already qualify for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by thanking, on behalf of the Socialist Group, the work they have done in the Government and also by thanking the groups that are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u123	Mr. Aceves, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u124	I'm on my way, President. And those who have not done so, reconsider, because they are surely doing a weak favor to public employees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Aceves. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2021, OF 13 JULY, RELATING TO THE ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTIONS OF INTEGRATED MOBILE GOODS OF THE SPANISH HISTORICAL PATRIMONY BY DETERMINED ENTITIES OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR AND ADOPTING OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE CULTURAL AND SPORTING AREA. [[File number 130/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the next item on the agenda, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 15/2021 of 13 July, which regulates the leasing of collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish Historical Heritage by certain entities of the public sector, and other urgent measures are taken in the cultural and sporting fields. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u127	Thank you, President. I didn't want to stop presenting a decree-law for validation today. I compare today with the plenary to request the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2021 of 13 July, which regulates the lease of collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish Historical Heritage by certain entities of the public sector and takes other urgent measures in the cultural and sporting field. It is my first speech as Minister of Culture and Sports to this House and, although it is an appearance outside the ordinary session, I would like to take this first opportunity to greet your ladies and gentlemen and, in particular, you will understand, the spokespersons for Culture and Sport. I make myself available to all of you. We have many challenges and tasks ahead, and I am convinced that by joining forces in the search for consensus we will be able to place culture and sport in the right place. You have already announced that you will appear before the Committee on Culture and Sport to set out the general lines of action in the ministry I have the honour of holding, where I will be able to share and discuss with all of you the challenges ahead of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but I do not want to miss this first intervention to show that I am aware of the important and transcendental work ahead. As I said in my inauguration, I take up the task of minister of culture and sport with illusion, humility and an important sense of responsibility that this task entails. As I have told you, today I come to the House to request your support for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2021 of 13 July. First of all, I would like to point out that this royal decree-law adds a new tenth additional provision to Law 16/1985 of 25 June of the Spanish Historical Heritage, referring to the lease of collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish Historical Heritage by certain entities of the public sector. The objective of this new additional provision is to regulate the leasing, by contracting authorities that do not have the consideration of public administration, of collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish Historical Heritage of exceptional interest, thus appreciated by the Board of Qualification, Evaluation and Export of Spanish Historical Heritage Property. Secondly, in this Royal Decree-Law 15/2021 of 13 July, the works of art belonging to the Carmen Thyssen Bornemisza Collection, leased to the Fundación Colección Thyssen Bornemisza, are granted the guarantee of the State referred to in the ninth additional provision of Law 16/1985 of 25 June of Spanish Historical Heritage, cited above, and Royal Decree 1680/1991 of 15 November, which develops this additional provision on the guarantee of the State for works of cultural interest in the terms provided for in that regulation. In its configuration, reference is made to Order 664/2021 of 22 June of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which grants the guarantee of the State to 425 works for display in the Permanent Collection of the Museo Nacional Thyssen Bornemisza, which includes practically all the works belonging to the Carmen Thyssen Bornemisza Collection. The economic value of the works covered by the guarantee, as well as the concrete works and the scope, effects, conditions and limits of the guarantee, shall be updated annually by order of the Minister for Culture and Sport. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to highlight the importance of the Carmen Thyssen Bornemisza Collection from the Thyssen Bornemisza Collection itself. The Carmen Thyssen Bornemisza Collection is the essential complement to the permanent collection of the Thyssen Bornemisza National Museum, the collection currently being found in the museum itself under a free loan agreement signed on 15 February 2002 and subsequently extended. This has allowed the works that integrate it to remain in the Fundación Colección Thyssen Bornemisza, guaranteeing its national and international dissemination. The current extension expired on July 15, 2021, with the consequent risk that the owners of the collection would withdraw the works in case an agreement for their stable exhibition was not reached through the corresponding lease agreement, and it is therefore urgent to articulate the necessary means to ensure, before the above-mentioned expiry, that the Spanish Historical Heritage can continue to enjoy, with the necessary guarantees, a set of works of art of the quality and prestige of the Carmen Thyssen Bornemisza Collection. The long-term lease involves continuing and complementing the initial acquisition of the Thyssen Bornemisza Collection, consolidating the value of the Thyssen Bornemisza Collection Foundation as a cultural institution of extraordinary relevance in the international museum field, an integral part of the light landscape for which the city of Madrid rightly claims its inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Ladies and gentlemen, this lease strengthens the Spanish cultural heritage. The improvement of the protection, conservation and knowledge of this heritage will be very favourable in cultural tourism and, therefore, in economic activity. Culture is an unquestionable engine of the tourism sector. If we take into account the data before the VOCID-19 pandemic, we can observe that cultural tourism is the one that has grown the most in the last five years. In general terms, tourism's weight reached 154,487 million euros in 2019, accounting for 12.4% of gross domestic product; it generated 2.72 million jobs, 12.9% of total employment. Data from the specific exploitation of official tourist statistics - the tourism survey of residents of the INE and the survey of tourist spending, also of the INE - show that culture is the main reason for one in five trips made for leisure, recreation or holidays, whether it is travel of residents in Spain - motivating 17% of this type of travel in 2019 - as well as international tourist entries, being the main reason for 19.8% of these entries of that year. More than 30 million trips in 2019 were mobilized by culture, with a total associated expenditure of 24 433.4 million euros; of them, 9085.4 million euros for residents in Spain and 15 348 million euros for international tourist entries. Even if these are not cultural or leisure-motivated trips, the above-mentioned tourist sources observe high percentages of trips in which cultural activities are carried out. In particular, during 2019 the Thyssen-Bornemisza National Museum received more than a million visitors -1,034,872 visitors -, 11.5% more than in 2018. In order to ensure the continuity of this growth and contribute to the recovery of cultural tourism and the economy itself, after overcoming the toughest moments of the pandemic, it is essential to give stability to the presence of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection by strengthening its position and attractiveness of visitors and enabling the sector's contribution to the gross domestic product, and the gross domestic product itself, to be placed as soon as possible at levels prior to the pandemic. The opportunity to have a collection of works of art such as those included in the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection, avoiding its departure from the museum and thus ensuring its position and its contribution to culture and economic recovery, enables the use of the mechanism of the royal decree-law. For its part, in the specific case of the granting of the State guarantee to the works of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection, the urgency is given by the need to provide, immediately and without the delays inherent in the corresponding procedure, adequate certainty and legal certainty to the system of insurance of the works, thus avoiding that, once the contract has been signed, there would be a period of time, from the signature of the contract to the formal granting of the guarantee, in which the works did not have any coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree-law that we are now subject to the validation of this House, in accordance with Article 86.2 of the Spanish Constitution, also incorporates an issue that affects the sporting sphere. I am referring, as you well know, to an amendment to the Royal Decree-Law 5/2015, of 30 April, to clarify the scope and regime of the new powers of joint marketing of audiovisual rights attributed to the Royal Spanish Football Federation as an organization of competitions of state and non-professional scope. The cessation of all professional and non-professional sports activities as a result of the health crisis has led, as in other areas of activity, to a reduction in the funding routes of the organizers of the competitions. The normalization of the health situation has made it possible to resume the sport activity, although with limitations on the use or total prohibition of access to the public in the case of professional sports, with these restrictions maintaining the limitation of resources for the financing of competitions and sports activities. The Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April of supplementary urgent measures to support the economy and employment, amended the Royal Decree-Law 5/2015 of 30 April of urgent measures relating to the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of professional football competitions, granting the Spanish Football Federation new powers to jointly market audiovisual rights. However, the National Commission on Markets and Competition considered that this reform had been incomplete, since the exercise of joint marketing powers for audiovisual rights requires, on a prior basis, the assignment of such rights in favour of the Spanish Football Federation by clubs and does not provide for the mandatory assignment of such powers, as is the case for the other competitions mentioned above. Thus, the centralized management of the rights of retransmission by the Royal Spanish Football Federation has so far not been possible, seriously affecting both the management of the resources of the federation itself and the value of the competition, and it is necessary to make the corresponding adjustment in an extraordinary and urgent way in order to avoid the distortions that the impossibility of implementing the Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April has generated in the management of the rights of retransmission of the competitions organized by the Royal Spanish Football Federation. The extraordinary and urgent need for the approval of this amendment therefore arises from the need to provide a stable regulatory framework that gives legal certainty to operators involved in this centralised sale of these rights and that allows the Spanish Football Federation to offer a complete product that increases the market value of these rights. It should not be forgotten that the amounts obtained from joint marketing would be intended to invest in improving the conditions of competition. In this case, the proximity of the start of the competitions organized by the Royal Spanish Football Federation, which is scheduled for next September, requires both the adoption of an amendment and the proposal in this royal decree-law. The process of marketing these rights must be carried out with sufficient time to enable operators and the federation itself to manage it in the best possible terms and for the development and exploitation of the competition. If these changes do not occur through this royal decree-law, the consequences, both for the federation and for the clubs participating in the competitions organized by it, would be harmful from the point of view of the reconstruction of the sports economic fabric, which was the objective pursued by the Royal Decree-law 15/2020, of 21 April. While it is true that Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 of 21 April, following its validation by the Congress of Deputies, is currently being processed as a bill in the General Courts, it is necessary to bear in mind that the current state of its processing would prevent the amendments now intended from being in force before the start of the new season. Ladies and gentlemen, although this is a very limited royal decree-law, as it consists of only three articles and three final provisions, it includes important amendments affecting the preservation, protection and enhancement of cultural heritage and the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content in professional football competitions. These are measures that can benefit culture and sport and the process of economic recovery already under way. That is why I ask your ladies and gentlemen to support the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Iceta i Llorens. Four months ago, at his first appearance in Congress as head of Territorial Policy and Public Service, I wished him success in his management and, now, he has barely landed, who has had to change ministerial airs and who is the new holder of the portfolio of Culture and Sport, I reiterate that same wish, although a moment ago he was far short of here, in the Chamber, on account of the debate of the interims. You'll probably have noticed that. You have presented us with a royal decree-law for whose validation the extraordinary and urgent necessity of your different measures is invoked, formula with stains of glue that has already cost the Government some revolt because of its unconstitutionality. In any case, whether constitutional or not, the Executive continues to abuse a figure with which the main function of the General Courts, which is to legislate, is to be disregarded. It is enough to say that in this XIV Legislature there have been more than half a hundred royal decrees-laws, namely fifty-four, an unmatched figure in democratic history. On this occasion it was peremptory, without a doubt, that the Government reached an agreement with the ownership of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza collection to continue its public exhibition through a lease contract that extended the free loan contract that was signed at the beginning of 2002 and that has been extended annually, as you recalled in your intervention. A striking question, as well as reasonable doubt, is why the Council of Ministers cleared the timetable to the point where it was approved the day before its expiry, dated 15 July 2021, i.e. less than a week. It should also be borne in mind that at the end of January his predecessor in the ministry, Mr Rodríguez Uribes, had already announced an agreement urbi et orbi in Rome - where else - between the parties for the stay in Spain of the collection for the next fifteen years, which implies the rent around 425 works and the payment of 6,5 million euros per year, with option of purchase, in 2036. However, following the Government's public announcement, there were different and unexplained postponements for the signing of the contract to which the measures contained in the regulations that are subject to the validation of Congress support. It seems that the history of the installation in Spain of the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection is linked to curiosities with the calendar. In fact, the first contract, dated 20 December 1988, was already signed, although the decree authorizing the Government to sign it was published in the State Official Gazette the following day. Such a consummate fact was spoken in the General Courts, as can be seen from the Journal of Sessions of the time. Ladies and gentlemen, without a doubt, the maintenance in Spain of this extraordinary private collection of Baroness Thyssen is an absolute priority, because, among other things, it helps to revalue the extraordinary and wonderful triangle of national museums that make up the Prado, Queen Sofia and Thyssen-Bornemisza. However, they will allow me to point out that the great economic effort now being made to avoid, as the explanatory statement literally states, the risk of removal of works should have been accompanied with greater agility in the negotiations so that they had not been carried out to date in extremis. Among other factors, the Government was in favour of the important contributions and support that, from the General Budgets of the State, have been made both for the creation of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid and for its maintenance and expansion, with the acquisition of adjacent buildings and their rehabilitation; for the payment of the ordinary and extraordinary credits of the acquisition by the State, in 1993, of the collection of Baron Thyssen-Bornemisza, and for the substantial annual appropriations for different terms in nominal grants and capital contributions. In this regard, it seems appropriate to point out that at the end of the eighties of the last century, namely on 3 March 1989, the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection Foundation is recognized, classified and registered as a private cultural foundation for service and promotion, and has since received exceptional treatment, which in itself would like other private foundations. In short, and this is the substantial thing, with the lease of the Carmen Thyssen collection it is guaranteed, at least another fifteen years, that Spain will continue to enjoy a magnificent set of works of art, which have its main exhibition center in Madrid, but without forgetting that the effective commitment to the culture of the owner of the collection has allowed, thanks to her philanthropy and personal and intransferable impulse, the opening of other exhibition spaces in several Spanish localities, such as the Museum of Malaga or the Museum of Sant Feliu de Guixols, which bear her name and which probably will not be the only ones in the near future, and with much greater reason, after this agreement to rent the works of her collection until the year 2036. Ladies and gentlemen, the government takes advantage of this royal decree-law to move towards the sport field and slide different measures that modify the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of professional football competitions. It is a commercialization that until now was governed by a regulation validated six years ago and that allowed the opening of certain social attentions that until then were not sufficiently or conveniently attended around football and, in a singular way, around the modest, being this sport in Spain a huge source of resources. In summary, what is proposed by these modifications is to enable the Spanish Football Federation to exercise more effectively the joint marketing powers entrusted to it around the rights that enable it as an organization of competitions of a non-professional state. Finally, Madam President, taking advantage of the fact that this debate has had its epicenter in the re-evaluation of the artistic heritage, I would like to denounce from this rostrum the recent and regrettable plunder suffered by the Asturians and perpetrated with the sale to the remanguillé and to robbers of the painting of Goya Haníbal winner to the Association of Friends of the Prado Museum by the Selgas Foundation, with the connivance of the socialist government of the Principality of Asturias. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u131	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, welcome to these your new functions. I hope that, as you have wished, your management will be fortunate and that we will agree in many respects on this co-management that is always called for in the field of the culture of a competition that is not absolutely linear. Let's start first by obviating that it is an issue that has already been raised, that relating to the royal decree law. First, this is an issue to which, because of its scope, it was to say that it is a jurisdictional problem, we do not know how to solve which, moreover, by the date of the conclusion of the lease contract of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza collection, it is urgent to give speed. So I'm going to mention it. I will also comment on another feature of this legislative initiative, which is no longer concerned with the work of your ministry at the present time, but in general with that of the Government recently. This is a law that, in principle, contains three precepts, three articles, with three distinct objects, and I believe that there are fifty-one paragraphs of the explanatory statement that come to justify them. They are aimed primarily at amending Act No. 16/1985 on Historical Heritage, which, however, has seventy-nine articles and only eleven paragraphs. In other words, there is some kind of indoctrination in the legislative initiative of the State. I would like you to bear in mind that this is a poor legislative technique and that it should be corrected. I'll get on with it, and I'll try to be brief. I told him that it is three articles or three precepts that address this legislative initiative. The first is to introduce a new tenth additional provision in the aforementioned Spanish Historical Heritage Act to remove from it, within the scope of Law 9/2017 of Public Sector Contracts, a specific form of lease where one of the participants, being part of the entities of the public sector, has the consideration of contracting authority not public administration if it is collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish historical heritage whose exceptional interest has been declared by the Board of Qualification, Valuation and Export of Historical Heritage Property or equivalent organ of the autonomous communities - and this is an important aspect. For what? So that these contracts and that is the object of the contract have the nature of a private contract. That is the first question, the object, in principle, of this provision, that such contracts, even if they have that legal personality of public concern as a subject, may also be subject to private law, without prejudice to the fact that their preparation and award should be governed by that Law on Public Sector Contracts and without prejudice to the fact that their effects and termination should be resolved by applying private law. This allows for another substantial or central element in this area, the one referred to in paragraph 2(a), and is that by means of these contracts the specification of particular administrative clauses will be replaced by the very closure of the contract. Although it is necessary to note that we understand that it is born as a result of the pressure of a particular case the case Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza has been pointed out, what would lead us to the discussion of the desirability of creating ad hoc norms, is undoubtedly an interesting and appropriate option not only to this alleged case concrete but to the reality or the panorama not only artistic, but museumistic in general. Secondly, and therefore, although it is not true that this is the result of this, Article 2 of the Law 16/1985 provides the guarantee to the Foundation Collection Thyssen-Bornemisza referred to in the ninth additional provision of that Law 16/1985, no longer to the Fundación Colección Thyssen-Bornemisza, as already stated in paragraph 2 of that precept, but to the works of art belonging to the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza collection. Go ahead with our conformity with that pronouncement. I confess that I am a lover no longer of the museums but, in particular, of the one located in our neighbouring Palace of Villahermosa and, above all, of its collection and its exhibitions and, therefore, I share the measure. But through a rigorous examination of the procedure provided for the granting of such a guarantee in that ninth additional provision and in Royal Decree 1680/1991 which develops it we see that it incurs an aggravated formula of unnecessary regulatory freezing in order to produce that desired effect of the guarantee of the State. With greater reason, once the first article on leases of cultural property has been found, which would allow it to be the immediate object of this guarantee, but also once it is known from its background that this lease has already been signed or the continuation of that lease for fifteen years, we believe that the granting of the guarantee indicated through the rule of this law is only explained by the importance of the collection, but it constitutes unjustified and unnecessary treatment from the normative point of view and even an aggravation for other entities that have been deserving of the same degree of natural protection in the form of simple ministerial orders. We are not going to insist very much on this, but I hope that we will discuss it, because we will ask for its treatment as a bill, because, as we have explained in the background of a legislative initiative that the nationalist party had several years ago, we believe that we must bet on allowing such a guarantee, which is of the State, but of the State in such a broad sense as that of its own culture, to reach out to other initiatives and collections in which other public bodies, including non-State bodies, are involved, Minister. Finally, thirdly, this Royal Decree-Law provides for a measure concerning the joint marketing of audiovisual rights in competitions organized by the Royal Spanish Football Federation as a result of the so-called Vienna Pact. We are only going to subscribe or accede to it, as we believe that it is because of the lack of legal certainty produced by the report of the NCMC, the National Commission on Markets and Competition. We therefore believe that it is urgent to ratify, in view of the imminent beginning of the sport season. We will therefore vote in favour of this rule, with caution and for the purpose of amending it as a bill, a measure we request from this rostrum. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u133	Thank you, President. I would like to start with a few words addressed, first of all, to former Minister Rodríguez Uribes, because, apart from political issues, we have had our differences throughout his management period, leaving the ministry a man-cult and I believe that, in addition, a good person. I wish you luck in whatever comes next professionally or in your life. And Mr. Iceta I wish very well in the Ministry of Culture, which I believe is one of the most beautiful ministries anyone can run. So, Mr. Iceta, very good and very lucky. We will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. We do not believe that it is necessary to treat it as a bill, because most of the measures it contains will be implemented in an imminent manner and in the parliamentary process we are going to find something that has become obsolete and that, moreover, cannot be reversed. With this, we do not consider it to be to be dealt with. It is good news that the lease of the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection is renewed. We recalled that he had a 1991 lease that expired in 2001 and was being extended, but generating uncertainty every year. I think there are 329 works that are affected by this contract, works of incalculable value, whose artists are several dozen geniuses in the history of painting, such as Guaguin,Van Gogh, Juan Gris, Kandinsky, Matisse, Miró, Monet, Picasso, Renoir or Rodin, and could follow for a while. It is an extensive collection of works by painter geniuses from all over the world, while the Institute of New History does not say otherwise, of course, because soon we will know that they were all Catalans, which can also happen; we already know that Beethoven and Puigdemont are almost relatives, although I would have said that Puigdemont was more of Bach, so of Tocata and escape. This is with regard to the most substantial part of the royal decree dealing with culture. The royal decree also touches on sports aspects that we support and that we find interesting. We all know what sport has suffered during the pandemic, we all know that the sporting expectations for 2020 have not been met, as in all areas of society, and that professional sport, federation and amateur sport have suffered a great deal. This royal decree-law assigns more powers to the Royal Spanish Football Federation for the joint marketing of audiovisual rights in all forms of football as long as they are not considered professional, and also increases by 1% the contribution that the clubs and entities participating in the national league championship will have to make. Anything that supports the sport suffered during this period, the non-professional, the federate, the amateur or the amateur, will be welcome. The numbers of the drop in the practice of sport during the pandemic are alarming. I think here, Mr. Iceta, you have a lot of work to do in trying to recover the pre-pandemic sport practice figures. We must encourage and support him. The practice of sport has been impossible. We need to learn from this and look for formulas that will allow us to continue practicing sport even though there are serious confinements and health situations. That this does not happen again, for example, what happened in 2020, and that the number of licences falls by 2.6% compared to 2019. Specifically, in football in what is especially centered this royal decree-law there were 21,037 licenses less than the previous year, something that is very striking. Sport is essential to improve health, especially cardiovascular health, to reduce the risk of heart disease, a cardiovascular accident or diabetes, but it is also a fundamental tool to combat childhood obesity. Moreover, it is probably the most influential external factor in coping with childhood obesity. Sport and football must be encouraged, which for its popularity is ideal for promoting physical activity. We have to reverse this pandemic trend. This is another reason why we will support this royal decree, which we believe affects that line. Mr Iceta, this is the first time I have addressed you since your entry into the government and I say to you that this is going to be the attitude you find in the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in the future of the Commission and this plenary. Very lucky and very right, that will be the luck and the right of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u135	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, in the first place, congratulates you on your new responsibilities. We make ourselves available to you to address any matter you deem appropriate within your new responsibilities. Let me begin, Minister, with something that may or may not be entirely your responsibility. It has to do with this usual practice of this Government to use the royal decree to solve issues that are not urgent or, rather, that have not occurred. In the end, the issues, out of laxity, end up being issues of urgency; they were not or would not have been if they had been fixed when they were touched. I think it is our duty to denounce this usual practice of the government, which makes it difficult for us to work with Members and complicates the handling and parliamentary debate in the House. We are going to support three issues that we are addressing today within the framework of this royal decree - I think none was or was not at the beginning - a matter of urgency, as I said, and we are going to support this royal decree. The first article adds an additional provision to Act No. 16/1985, which regulates the lease of collections of movable property, and it seems good to us, to us, to be fair; in fact, matching and updating this legislation is good news. With regard to the second point which deals with this law, which is certainly one which has a little more interest today from a media point of view and which you have referred to as one which seeks to give stability - I think I quote - to the Thyssen Bornemisza collection, I would say that we cannot agree more with what the Government intends to do with this collection. You have spoken about cultural tourism, and I would like us not to have this debate within the framework of this royal decree, but there are issues that are important and need to be addressed. If we talk about cultural tourism and talk about the importance of culture as a capacity or as an element of cultural attraction - you were talking about one in five visitors moving on cultural issues - we should also talk about how we distribute resources for culture throughout the territory of the State. For example, we need to talk about why the Reina Sofia Museum receives 39 million euros while the Macba Consortium receives only 1.2 million euros. If what matters is cultural tourism and what adds value to tourism is culture, we need to talk about how we distribute this wealth. But I insist that this is not the framework to be able to do so, so I would like you to appear in the Committee on Culture to be able to hold this debate as you see fit. On the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection, the advance that we present - we are going to do it again in the General Budgets of the State and in that debate - an amendment to facilitate the acquisition of the Catalan collection of the museum that it has in Sant Feliu de Guixols. The two parties supporting the Government did not accept the amendment, but we will resubmit it if there are General State Budgets. That's how we're gonna do it and I hope this time...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u136	Mr. Miquel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u137	...we can count on your support, Mr. Iceta. Thank you very much, Minister. I wish you good luck and we are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u139	Thank you, President. Minister, as you should already know, Mata Mua is the name of one of the most famous paintings in the private Thyssen collection referred to in the royal decree and signifies once upon a time. The title of one of Gauguin's Tahitian works comes that neither painted, if I allow the play of words, because Mata Mua once was an agreement that will allow, at a rate of 6,5 million euros per year, the rental of part of the private Thyssen collection, that the royal decree - as you referred to - defines as the essential complement of the permanent collection. It is imperative, as essential for this government as it was for the previous one to keep the Thyssen collection at all costs and at all costs, literally. Until the Court of Auditors stopped the grants on the letter, introducing control mechanisms on the amount of the budgetable deficit so that the State does not continue to give in full the amount necessary to cover the deficit generated by the mismanagement of the Thyssen Foundation, for example, EUR 5.3 million in 2015 that we pay among all. Faced with this royal decree to the letter we say that the Government must support culture, of course, but throughout the State, because Mata Mua, once there was a deficit and a historical debt with the cultural facilities of Catalonia in which the General Administration of the State participates in a consortium. It has not complied with its financial commitments, having contributed only 5 % of the extraordinary economic contribution necessary for its maintenance and management, the remaining 95 % has had to be put in by the Generalitat. In a March appearance in the Commission, Minister Rodríguez Uribes undertook to activate and, of course, to fulfil the outstanding economic commitments in the facilities that form part of the Consortium in Catalonia, a commitment that you, Mr Iceta, must now honour as a new Minister of Culture and Sport. Catalonia requires to recover the regular financing of the great cultural equipments: Liceu, Macba, MNAC,L'Auditori, Teatre Lliure, Mercat de les Flors, Fundació Tapias, Fundació Miró. There is a very unequal treatment, as noted, between the MNAC or Macba regarding the Prado and Queen Sofia, especially as regards the Next Generations. There is money for the modernization of museums in Madrid, and not for Catalans. When will the State Government fulfil its economic obligations? Because, when they are interested, they run well, although this royal decree has arrived, as it is said in football, spraying the pole. I take advantage of the soccer simile to comment on the other issue that deals with the royal decree, that of the audiovisual rights of football. As euphemistically the royal decree itself recognizes, this comes to end the ordination work for the joint marketing of the rights of non-professional football initiated in the previous Royal Decree-Law 15/2020, via expropriation to clubs, which we understand should be heard much more. Since the first female football is now professional, the management of their rights will be a matter of their professional league - as is recognized in the royal decree - and, therefore, I just want to comment that with regard to the rights that the Spanish Federation does manage, we ask that the distribution of solidarity contributions take into account those responsible for sports in the autonomous communities and that positive discrimination be made in favour of women's base football. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. First of all, of course, I want to welcome you to the ministry and offer you all our collaboration and all our work. In our parliamentary group we welcome any initiative that entails the enrichment and preservation of the historical, cultural and artistic heritage of our country and, above all, any initiative that allows citizens to have access to this heritage, with the aim of fulfilling a right, the right to culture, which we recall is a human right that is recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or in the Constitution, for example. We therefore welcome such legislative measures. However, in Unidad Podemos and the confluences we have always emphasized the transparency and public management of culture and diversity as a vertebrating element to guarantee this access to the right to culture of which I spoke a moment ago. I would like to dwell on these specific points in my speech and make some observations which we believe must be taken into account in the future and at this new stage which begins in the Ministry of Culture and Sport. First of all, we must say that we miss a technical report that has valued the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection and membership by extending the State guarantee, as well as the amount by which this guarantee extends. We believe that, in the future, it is essential for a committee of experts to analyse the desirability of including these funds in public museums. In fact, we would ask the Ministry to make this type of technical and expert report in the annual update to be made of this guarantee, as set out in the Royal Decree, and therefore to make this extension of the guarantee in accordance with these criteria. We believe that for these technical and expert criteria, both for today's collection and for those that are valued in the future, elements of diversity should be taken into account as I have mentioned before and I would like to focus particularly on the subject of gender. For this I would like to quote Peio Riaño, who has written a book, Las Invisibles, where he talks about how the Prado Museum has historically ignored and continues to ignore women. It illustrates how the museum is a cultural elaboration that legitimizes a thought of gender, and adds that it also of race or class, and that it gives a natural origin to something that is not, that is, in the case of gender to the domination of one sex over the other. That is why we think that it is essential to apply the gender perspective in the museum policies carried out by the ministry. In fact, Peio Riaño explicitly talks about reviewing the patriarchal policies that govern our most important museums. That, as I said, is to evaluate and study the gender aspect of the acquisition and lease of the historical heritage carried out by the ministry. We therefore invite you, Minister, to work with awareness on this issue, an urgent issue and for which you also call for a society that is already considered openly feminist, such as Spanish society. For this you will find all our collaboration, as I said, and all our support. I would also like to stress the sports side. We express support for the measures proposed, in particular those that represent an improvement in the support for amateur football, and of course for everything that contributes to the visibility of sport, in this case women's football. These days we have experienced important racist episodes in sport. Without going further, in our own country we have questioned the value of athlete Mohamed Katir for the origin of his surnames, or for example in the Eurocopa we have also experienced racist episodes that must warn us about the responsibility of football in the creation of a society free of racism and free of machismo. For example, in England there are several studies that confirm the increase in macho aggressions on party days and I suppose you will have seen this image that has been viralized, that was carried out on the occasion of the World Cup a few years ago and that puts the emphasis on how women are victims of the violence that is exercised in the context of sport. [[shows a photograph]] We must stop to think what masculinities encourage our football, if we are willing, together with clubs, players, media and all sports agents, to work on other models of masculinity, what soccer we promote from the ministry, what visibility we give to women's sport, what players we choose as referents. All this contributes to building a kind of society. Here again all our collaboration, Minister, to build a sport without violence, without discrimination, that pushes a more just society. So, and to sum up, we will support this royal decree, given the urgency it required and the importance of the Carmen Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection, but we believe that we must continue to ensure transparency and public control in the recruitments linked to culture. Let me add here that there has been talk of philanthropy with regard to the collection and perhaps one day we should open the debate about an immense heritage, as we are talking about, falling into private hands and into the hands of a single person. I ended my speech by welcoming the Minister again and offering, as I said, all our collaboration to achieve cultural and sporting public policies that contribute to a diverse, feminist, just and free society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u143	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, much illusion says you have, and what I answer to you is that very little performance. You in what you specialize in and for what you are known is lobbying and political intrigue. You do not have any known background on knowledge in the subjects of the portfolio you hold, either in culture or in sport or in any other, that we know, perhaps at the dance, according to a well-known public appearance in a video broadcast by your party. In spite of that, and after hearing a reading of a refrite of fragments of the explanatory statement and of the memory - because I believe that you know absolutely nothing about what you have spoken about - I will congratulate you on your appointment. And I will congratulate you because you have released the portfolio of Territorial Policy, whose performance provoked in our fear group, especially after hearing you say in the last appearance in plenary, in such a condition, that you do not rule out reforming the Constitution, of course, I interpret that to approach secessionist pretensions. It does not in vain have its party, the PSC, a long history of torturer ambiguity in the area of territorial integrity in the last forty years, not to mention the Second Republic, since you like this so much about historical memory. Those statements were followed by those of Mrs Calvo, who also gave up today, who spoke about the consultative referendum also in the same direction. And then there is Mr Zapatero, who in a long interview with the newspaper La Razón said that he by creative solutions - a gentleman who has never created anything but disaster - would be able to recover the powers that had been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in the ruling on the Organic Law of Reform of the Catalan Statute. [[applause]] This is to shake. That is why I congratulate you on leaving this portfolio. Finally, I believe that they will suffer their presence - they cannot join the congratulations in the terms of the rest of the groups - Spanish culture and sport. In addition, you appear after a ruling of the Constitutional Court on the first decree of the state of alarm, which was filed by the VOX Group. A sentence that has declared the abuse and fraud of the Constitution, by a deviating will of an enemy government from parliamentaryism and the division of powers, with a PP in Las Batuecas, of course, who did not resort to anything - with due respect to the inhabitants of that beautiful region and the province of Salamanca and its deputies, if there is any here in this act at this time of the afternoon. Minister, all this is sufficient for you to have declined the invitation to be part of this cabinet after the sigh, but trembled, of what happened in that Ministry of Territorial Policy. In addition, the Constitutional Court has ruled on the abuse of the decree-law three times: on the appointment of Mr. Iglesias to the Government Delegate Commission for Intelligence Affairs, the CNI; on the transfer of passive classes to Social Security, and on the legal regime for the appointment of the Board of Directors of Spanish Broadcasting and its President. In all these judgements, the Constitutional Court has expressed itself in very harsh terms, and in some of them in demolishing terms. The Government's design is not what justifies the extraordinary and urgent need. It is nothing more than a political design, he says, and thus the legislative power of the Courts is shifted to the Government, preventing the intervention of minorities in the parliamentary legislative procedure. This was said to Minister Marlaska in a plenary session in a question in April 2020, in relation to two of the above-mentioned subjects. He told us that we were talking about things that we didn't care about, that we took care of the important thing. What do you want me to tell you with this background? What do you want me to tell you about this royal decree-law? What an extraordinary and urgent need you will tell me what it is. On the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection, you regulate a lease of artistic collections, that is, a unique law. You should not know, but I suppose the state attorney of your ministry does. It is a unique and therefore unconstitutional law. Because it says: regulation of a new lease contract for certain collections. But what particular collection? If the exhibition of motifs only speaks of the collection of Baroness Thyssen, person for whom we express our sympathy and to whom we admire for having been such an important collector in a set of pictorial works, truly remarkable. What is the extraordinary and urgent need here? That Baroness Thyssen collects the rent? [[Laughter]] I suppose you're a socialist government. In addition, we are told in the explanatory statement that the loan of use, which was held in 2002 and extended until today, is extinguished. You've had time. Mr. Sánchez, today absent, as always, has ruled since 2018. Now you've noticed? What about the previous ministers who have preceded you? Don't you know? Anyway, what do you want me to say? All this comes within the lyric-comic danceable genre, since it is about you, minister, because in the explanatory statement there is some reference that I don't know where they copied and glued it from. [[laughs]] He says something important is to keep in mind that there is a canvas of Fragonard, which was one of the works that Baron Thyssen contemplated in the last years of his life. Please, this has been copied from a journalistic text. This is a journalistic or operetta text, this is inappropriate from a explanatory statement. This is not serious at all. In memory there is no economic impact, nothing is said. False of all falsehood, the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection Foundation is a state public foundation. Will the foundation pay the lease with its resources or will the State contribute? We don't know that because it doesn't have a budget impact either. Finally, the issue of audiovisual rights. What do you want me to say? Already discussed in 2015, it was said...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u144	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish. One sentence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u145	Nor is there a scenario of urgent need, so this incursion into the private sphere was already much discussed on the pretext of competition law, never sufficiently explained or clarified and in the economic memory neither is said anything...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u147	...of an issue of macroeconomic magnitude. We'll abstain. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u149	Thank you, President. Minister, this royal decree-law deals with two completely different subjects. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the legal form used to regulate what is being brought today is outrageous for both culture and sport, as other groups have also pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if you would like to do your job well, today we would have had two completely different and separate regulations and not in a real decree-law, adopted in the Council of Ministers, with night and lightness, after a few hours of having already taken possession of you as a minister, Mr Iceta. Only someone like Pedro Sánchez would have thought of joining in the same royal decree-law the guarantee of the State to the Carmen Thyssen Collection and the imposition on non-professional football clubs to assign their audiovisual rights to the Spanish Football Federation. It's sanchismo stuff. We are obliged in the People's Parliamentary Group to make two different interventions because of the subject matter. First of all, in the People's Parliamentary Group we are pleased that the negotiation with Baroness Carmen Thyssen on the permanence of her magnificent collection in our country has finally been concluded. Minister, it has cost you a lot of time, it has cost you up to four Ministers of Culture and Sport to bring this reform. It has cost them a lot of time and four ministers, but today they want to justify their urgency. And you know why? Here something has already been said and slipped. Because the contract with the Carmen Thyssen Collection ended last July 15th and they had to run a lot to approve this royal decree, as it were, a day before. You, minister, had to run a lot; like you never had to run. But our group has a sense of state and, as I have told you, we are pleased that the collection located in the foundation continues to count on the works belonging to the Carmen Thyssen Collection and that they are the perfect counterpoint, by the way, to the Prado Museum and the Reina Sofia Center. Moreover, it is a recognition of one of the greatest patrons we have had the luck of having in our country precisely when we are celebrating the centenary of the birth of Baron Thyssen, an issue that we recognize and will defend with the vote in favor of this royal decree-law. We are going to vote in favour, Minister, but with the aim and with the aim that in the process as a draft law, which I hope will be so, you rectify and amend some of the points that I am going to detail, in particular in the sports section. You bring today, as established by the royal decree, an amendment to the Royal Decree-Law 5/2015, of 30 April, which regulated urgent measures in relation to the commercialization of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of professional football competitions. By summarising the article that you bring here today and you read, we are talking about the fact that participation in an official state-level football competition necessarily entails the transfer by your holders to the organizing body of the joint marketing powers of audiovisual rights. That is, you bring us a reform of the Royal Decree 5/2015, by which professional football agreed to cesera the organizing entity, which is The League - and you have agreed by agreement, this is the agreement that remains in force and that is not changed - but you want to establish - there is the trap, the triquiñuela - in the royal decree that non-professional football clubs must yield their audiovisual rights, without agreement. They must - without agreement - assign their audiovisual rights. And there's the trap of this royal decree. In our view, the Government expropriates by decree-law the non-professional Spanish football audiovisual rights in favour of another entity and prohibits the possibility of marketing the audiovisual rights of which they are holders. Mr Iceta, Minister, when you go to Catalonia, how will you explain to non-professional football clubs that your rights will be managed by the Royal Spanish Football Federation? I'd like to be in front. How are you going to explain it to him? You're going to have a problem, I'm going to let you know. Many clubs and leagues will end up disappearing or not joining the leagues. He won the big against the little ones thanks to a social and communist government. They're talking about the Pact of Viana, I've heard it around here. Can you tell me what the Pact of Viana has helped basic sport - tell me something - non-professional federated sport, autonomous sport, events? What's it helped? The gymnasiums they've closed down, the ones they're losing their jobs? They haven't helped anything at all, it's a lie pact. This royal decree contains many errors. The first, as I have told you, is that they bring the modification with night and lightness together with the Thyssen Collection so that we cannot vote against it. You're a triler. The Spanish Football Federation is given a power over the audiovisual rights of ownership of non-professional clubs, when it is an entity representing the Spanish football team and not the clubs. By the way, the representation of Spanish football does very well, but that is its function and that is the function delegated by law. This royal decree forgets to regulate the participation of rights holders in this process. Minister, it's an expropriation. I am perplexed with the people, with the groups that are going to vote in favour of this expropriation of rights. If it's a communist regime! If we are actually looking like Cuba and Venezuela also in sport. Why is only this royal decree restricted to football and not to other forms of sport, Minister? That didn't explain it to us. Why are we just talking about football today? Why didn't you talk about basketball? Why don't we talk about these audiovisual rights? I hope you start studying these subjects now that you're going to have time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish people are fed up with the fact that you always want to divide us, to confront us, to divide ourselves, to favor one another and to use sport to confront the sport sector. I hope that now in Tokyo, Minister - I know you are going to travel - you will be imbued with the values of Olympicism...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u150	Mr. Merino, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u151	... and may bring cordiality and agreement in the handling of the bill by correcting the serious sports errors contained in this royal decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u153	Thank you, President. Mr Merino, you have tried but you did not have the preterite presence of Sánchez García, who does not know well what you went out to talk about, at least you have spoken all the time about the decree you play. I just want to say a few words for the ladies and gentlemen of VOX. You would already like, Mr Sánchez García - who has come up to this rostrum in voice, as Professor Bacterio untied - to have a single gram of institutional dignity, institutional responsibility and service to Spain that Miquel Iceta i Llorens has. You'd like that. [[Applauds]] It is shameful to hear the level of your group's speeches in this Chamber. Beyond the prosaic, obviously, congratulating the new Minister of Culture i Esports, beyond the appreciations of the different spokespersons, there are various more general elements around what we today validate to those we have referred to almost all and that impact more generally either in the sport or in the culture of our country. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u154	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u155	As far as the commercialization of the image rights of football is concerned, it is clear that this sport is and will be spearheading in many respects for the rest of our country's sport. This initiative gives more space to non-professional competitions, also to women's competitions, and should serve to consolidate them and support themselves in the future. It is true that this provision affects football exclusively, but we know, as I said, that in many respects it is for other sports disciplines a despatcher, who opens the way, for example, in the generation of professionalization spaces beyond male competitions, being the first one that is allowing to create real professionalization spaces for sportswomen in Spain. It is this push that we must take advantage of among all so that we do not leave that effort alone in football, so that we go further and further expand that effect and it is not a single case, but the beginning of a trend for the future. To this end, in the same way that we must take into account the essential role of professional football in the sports ecosystem, it must continue with the commitment to return more and more to that ecosystem that leads the effort that so many public institutions make and that allows to maintain the level of football in Spain and increase it. With regard to the Carmen Thyssen collection, the Museo Nacional, Thyssen-Bornemisza, beyond the branches and phobias that everyone can manage freely, we can say objectively that this collection that complements the Museo Nacional is today one of the most attractive private collections to which the public can have access and therefore forms part of a very special cast of little or no mobility. There is no exchange of this kind of large collections, much less in permanent public exhibition, that can change them from one territory to another. You don't get what you can lose in that field. Therefore, it is especially necessary to make an effort to ensure that it is still in Spain and remains part of our museum ecosystem, that is, not only that it is in Spain, but that it is publicly exposed and permanently open to all citizens. It is clear that today it is one of the great attractions to visit not only Madrid, but all of Spain. Of course, the 7.7 million visitors who in 2019, before the pandemic, passed through the three pinacotheques of the Art Walk, a unique agglomeration in the world, with art of all ages and styles, that in the space of a few hundred meters joins more than 5000 works; I repeat, unique in the world, without competition on a global scale. Without a doubt, today we could not understand that we would lose a sufficiently significant part as the Thyssen collection is. The Thyssen Museum, the Thyssen brand, on the other hand, is a globally recognizable artistic brand, which produces a very clear effect called there where it is and which complements perfectly with the collections of Prado and Queen Sofia, allowing that in a small walk you can see original works of the greatest artists of the last centuries, a fact that - I will not tire of punctualizing - is unique today, with as much quality and quantity as we can enjoy in our country. In our environment there are no countries that can compete directly with that, and certainly if we must do something, it is to develop their potential to the fullest. It would seem even senseless not to make an effort, as Governments of all colors have done in our country, to settle as definitively as possible that collection in its current location. Whether - some spokesman has said - the Mata Mua, of Gauguin, or the fishing boat between two rocks on a beach of the Baltic Sea, of Friedrich, which has inspired even novels, or the Sunyer and Fortuny that we can enjoy between its walls, the Carmen Thyssen collection represents something irrefutable. To give up such cast would be to amputate a part of that jewel of the cultural crown that are for Madrid and also for Spain the pictorial collections that rest today in the shade of the trees of the Paseo del Prado. That is why the Socialist Group will, of course, vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda items on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000059 to 110/000062, 110/000064 and 1010/000065. Several parliamentary groups have asked to speak in connection with these opinions. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened so that parliamentary groups can set their positions from the seat. Firstly, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u158	Thank you, President. In the agreements presented to us today, we find an agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Chile for the exchange and mutual protection of classified information in the field of defence. In other words, today we are asked to vote in favour so that the Spanish Government can continue to hide its military and arms business with the Government of Chile. They are asking parliamentarians to support us in not being able to access information, and they are doing so in July and along with five more treaties, to see if this goes unnoticed. A week ago we learned that the Emeritus King had participated directly in arms trades with Saudi Arabia to get rich; a month ago we knew that in the midst of the pandemic the Spanish Government had reached the historical record of approval of arms export licences; a month and a half ago we knew that the Spanish Government had raised millions of euros to send them to the United States to develop the Plan Colombia, which killed thousands of Colombians, and today they have the shame of asking us to vote in favour of an agreement like this? Over the past two years, the Chilean Government has pointed out that it has repressed demonstrators who have been massively mobilized to respect their rights, a Government that has been denounced for torture against the Mapuche people, a Government with several criminal complaints for allegedly committing crimes against humanity. Does the Spanish Government really want to protect and conceal the irregularities of the Chilean Government? Out of respect for democracy and out of respect for transparency, please prevent this agreement from coming forward. Who knows what they're trying to hide from us this time. If anything proves the history of the Spanish state, it is because of its international reputation that it is able to do anything. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u160	With the venom. On the Agreement amending the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism The main purpose of the reform is for the MED to be able to finance the Single Resolution Fund, managed by the Single Resolution Board of the Single Resolution Mechanism, designed as a fund to solve critical problems of financial institutions when they cannot deal with them on their own. [[MEASUREMENT]] So far, this fund was financed from contributions from Member States' banking institutions. What is now being proposed is that the MEDE can also contribute to the SUR, so that it would be a burden for the Member States, and since the resources of the MEDE are limited, to provide for critical situations the banking sector assumes that it will no longer provide for the needs of other sectors of economic activity. Therefore, we are not in a position to vote in favour, but we will abstain, because we fail to see the rationality of this purpose as a general consideration of the economy. As regards the second, the agreement on the transfer of mutualisation of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, the reform seeks to pool the obligations of the States parties to that agreement for the ex post contributions of the Member States, i.e. those which will be requested from the national banking sectors where the resources available from the SUR for ex ante contributions are not sufficient to cover losses, costs or other expenses for the resolution measures of the FUR. This pooling of ex post contributions presupposes that a general risk reduction in the financial sector in the euro area has taken place, and that assessment should have been made by the institutions in 2020; it has not been made, probably by a political decision, and therefore there has not been a basis as intended to carry out the measure now covered by this form of 2014 agreement reform agreement. We find it very difficult in the current circumstances, caused mainly by the crisis of the coronavirus, to say that this progress without any evaluation has taken place in order to reduce the risk in general in the euro area. There is no such assessment, there is nothing to the contrary, there is nothing to it, and therefore we cannot approve this reform on this lack of sufficient knowledge to warrant our accession. In any case, the effectiveness of the reform is conditional on this verification and, therefore, one wonders why it should be forced today and not wait for the verification of that risk assessment. From a national point of view, we also do not think it possible to conclude that higher mutualisation does not harm Spain and its banking sector in all the States parties. As an approach we dare to consider that the beneficiaries of growing mutualization would be other states and their banking sectors with less...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u161	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u162	It is sufficient to recall the precedent, still pending before the Court of Luxembourg, of the ruling of the People's Bank. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on behalf of my parliamentary group to announce that we are going to vote for each and every convention in favour, once again supporting this government. I would dare to make two groups of conventions, one of a less important nature, mainly with countries that do not have a major international relevance - in line with what the President of the Government has recently been looking for in view of the total and absolute failure with relations with the United States and also in line with the stubbornness that we have suffered with Morocco's policy - and other more important ones - which have already been said here right now - which affect the European Financial Stability Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund. The MEDE, ladies and gentlemen, is a mechanism that this government may have to use. Everyone knows that Spain has been one of the worst countries to handle the coronavirus crisis. Despite hiding the number of dead, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that something very bad has been done, and it is also evident that the economy has been managed frankly badly, since Italy and Spain are in queue. This causes us to receive 70 billion euros, which we already know how they will be distributed after the unfortunate news that we have had to read in the media: at a table gurney, in favor of Catalonia and, if possible, with some commission. This morning a VOX spokesman said that VOX acts, and goes on to act in that famous royal decree of distribution of these funds, since it was he who helped this government to carry out the royal decree. After all, ladies and gentlemen, there's always VOX left. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry, but PSOE's always got VOX. In any case, why are we going to use MEDE? Today we have learned that we are once again setting records: record of the energy price, record of indebtedness, record of the gas price, in short, ladies and gentlemen, record of deficit. Spain's economy does not work, and it obviously does not work because there is a government that is unable to make it work and because it is essentially dedicated to what should not be dedicated. Finally, I would like to state the following: I am surprised today by the silence of certain left-wing forces who were very belligerent when the MEDE was brought to this Parliament and ruled the People's Party and today they simply remain silent and vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, MEDE is used for bank bailouts. I am saying this because, as you have been talking about terminology lately - above all I am referring to the United Left and Podemos - you misunderstand - Cuba is a dictatorship and the MEDE is a bank rescue - perhaps you have discovered the exuberance of the banks above all to finance penthouses and capplons. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u165	Thank you, Mr. Suárez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Member of the People's Party, you already have us used to letting go of your perrata here and being so happy when the actual point we are dealing with today is that of conventions. I do not know very well what they have to do with this Cuba, the United States and everything you have released here simply with the aim of attacking the Government of Spain and Spain, of course. As it cannot be otherwise and fortunately, the Socialist Party governs in Spain in a coalition of progressive formations, with Unidad Podemos, to deal with this crisis in a totally different way from how you did it in the previous economic-financial crisis. In any case, and in view of their maximum irresponsibility and that of their training in foreign policy, to which we are already accustomed, because they do not understand it as a State policy, but as a policy to vertebrate attacks against the Government of Spain and against our country, we must say that, of course, we support the conventions which today rise to this plenary: the amendment of the Treaty establishing the European Mechanism, which is fundamental, because no one discusses the positive impact of the MEDE on the crisis, and, of course, the agreement on mutualisation and transfer, always taking into account the reduction of risks involved, in this case, in the management of these resources. With regard to the agreement with Chile, I think it is very important to stress that nothing has to do with what has been moved here today in relation to the agreement with Chile on defence with what is actually signed. It is a partnership agreement, the exchange of confidential and secret information for the proper functioning of the defence. That is what we are raising to this plenary today and which we fortunately approve, because it is good for the management of our country and good for Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in two minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please allow those who do not have to exercise the right to vote in person to leave the Chamber. Let's start with the votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u168	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 12/2021 of 24 June, adopting urgent measures in the field of energy taxation and in the field of energy generation and on the management of the regulatory fee and the rate of water use. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 240 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 67 plus 126 telematics votes, 193; against, 3 telematics votes; abstentions, 41 plus 111 telematics votes, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u169	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 240 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 39 plus 131 telematics votes, 170; against, 67 plus 106 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 1 plus 3 telematics votes, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u170	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Mrs Lastra Fernández asks for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Lastra?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u171	President, I just want to state, if it can be resolved, that the voting system is not working in the seat of María Luisa Carcedo. In both votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u172	Thank you very much. Let us review it to continue with the rest of the votes. [[Pause]] Looks like it's solved. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 13/2021, OF 24 JUNE, AMENDING LAW 2/2021, OF 29 MARCH, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES OF PREVENTION, CONTENTION AND COORDINATION TO FRONT THE HEALTH CRISIS OF COVID-19, AND THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2020, OF 7 JULY, OF ECONOMIC REACTIVATION MEASURES TO FRONT THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 IN TRANSPORT AND LIVING AREAS. [[File number 130/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u173	We shall continue with the votes. Royal Decree-Law 13/2021 of 24 June amending Law 2/2021 of 29 March on urgent measures to prevent, contain and coordinate the health crisis caused by COVID-19 and Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July on economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID-19 on transport and housing. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 240 by telephone, 348; in favour, 69 plus 111 by telephone, 180; against, 39 plus 51 by telephone, 90; abstentions, 78 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u174	The Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 240 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 40 plus 105 telematics votes, 145; against, 68 plus 126 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u175	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 14/2021, OF 6 JULY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR THE REDUCTION OF TEMPORALITY IN PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u176	Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality in public employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 240 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 67 plus 103 telematics votes, 170; against, 41 plus 129 telematics votes, 170; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u177	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. [[Pause]] I'm sorry, I miscounted and there's a tie. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In the event of a tie, as you all know, in accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be repeated. We therefore return to the vote on Royal Decree-Law 14/2021 of 6 July on urgent measures to reduce the temporality of public employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 107 plus 240 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 67 plus 103 telematics votes, 170; against, 40 plus 129 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u178	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 240 by telephone, 348; in favour, 108 plus 238 by telephone, 346; against, 1 by telephone; abstentions, 1 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u179	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2021, OF 13 JULY, RELATING TO THE ARRANGEMENT OF COLLECTIONS OF INTEGRATED MOBILE GOODS OF THE SPANISH HISTORICAL PATRIMONY BY DETERMINED ENTITIES OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR AND ADOPTING OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE CULTURAL AND SPORTING AREA. [[File number 130/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Royal Decree-Law 15/2021 of 13 July, regulating the lease of collections of movable property belonging to the Spanish historical heritage by certain entities of the public sector and other urgent measures in the cultural and sporting fields. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 238 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 108 plus 161 telematics votes, 269; abstentions, 77 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u181	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. We have also requested the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 239 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 40 plus 118 telematics votes, 158; against, 68 plus 99 telematics votes, 167; abstentions, 22 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u182	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u183	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions dossier numbers 110/000059 and 110/000061, agenda items 5 and 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 237 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 108 plus 212 telematics votes, 320; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 24 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u184	The opinions were therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE, DONE IN MADRID ON 3 DECEMBER 2020. [[File number 110/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u185	Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Chile for the exchange and mutual protection of classified information in the field of defence, done at Madrid on 3 December 2020. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 237 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 101 plus 183 telematics votes, 284; against, 15 telematics votes; abstentions 7 plus 39 telematics votes, 46.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u186	The opinion was therefore adopted. - MINAMATA CONVENTION ON MERCURY, DONE IN KUMAMOTO ON 10 OCTOBER 2013. [[File number 110/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u187	Minamata Mercury Convention, done at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 237 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 108 plus 161 telematics votes, 269; against, 3 telematics votes; abstentions, 73 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u188	The opinion was therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT AMENDING THE CONSTITUTIONAL TREATY OF THE EUROPEAN STABILITY MECHANISM BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, IRELAND, THE Hellenic REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCESA, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF Latvia, THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, THE GRAND DUKE OF LUXEMBURG, THE REPUBLIC OF MALTA, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGUESE, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVACA, THE REPUBLIC OF THE KINGDOM, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, [[File number 110/000064]] - AGREEMENT ON THE TRANSFER AND MUTUALIZATION OF THE ASSISTANCE TO THE SINGLE RESOLUTION FUND BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE CZECH REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, IRELAND, THE REPUBLIC OF HELENIC REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE, THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF LATONIA, THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, THE GRAND DUTY OF LUXEMBOURGIUM, HUNGRY, THE REPUBLIC OF ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF LAPULPIAN REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC of [[File number 110/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u189	Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions items 9 and 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: present, 108 plus 237 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 108 plus 163 telematics votes, 271; against, 3 telematics votes; abstentions, 71 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-07-21-CD210721.u190	The opinions were therefore adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the Permanent Chamber will begin in 15 minutes. The meeting rose. Thank you so much. It was four and five minutes in the afternoon.
