ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point on committee opinions on legislative initiatives and in particular on the draft Organic Law on the Management and Integration of Vocational Training. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u2	To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, I have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a major reform in which it is necessary to correct its content by the importance of this new law and to achieve a new one that will last in time in order to modernise and give stability to vocational training. We are going to support this law, we are going to support it because we understand that the progress it provides is substantial for vocational training; because we understand that vocational training must be modernised and strengthened as a basic pillar of the education system in Spain; because we understand that a good functioning of vocational training in educational establishments in the regions and provinces with depopulation problems is a very powerful tool to correct territorial imbalances and, in the same way, the existence of permanent training opportunities for adults and professionals in the regions concerned can contribute to the fight against depopulation. During the procedure we have tabled amendments to improve the law as a whole and to bring quality vocational training closer to young people in rural areas as well as the possibilities for continuing training. These amendments have been prepared by the Education Group of the Teruel Existing Citizens' Movement. As on other occasions, our commitment and will have been to transfer the basic demands of citizenship to Parliament and to the legislative texts that are finally adopted. The group of voters I represent in this Chamber is concerned with the general issues of the country at least as much as the large political parties that are represented in this House. Among our amendments there are some organizational changes in the articles... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u4	Mr. Guitar, wait a minute, please. It's 9:00 in the morning, I don't want to start by asking for silence at 9:00 in the morning, please. If you want to have long conversations get out of the Chamber - you can get out of the Chamber - but do not keep them inside, because it is impossible to follow the interventions of the person who has the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Among the amendments there are some organisational changes in Articles 68 and 69 which have been negotiated in the Committee on Education and which will allow any recognised centre to have a partial offer of training in any professional family provided that it is coordinated with another recognised centre which cooperates with the implementation of this offer. We think that this way the possibilities of Vocational Training are opened up by combining online and face-to-face training. In short, it is a question of improving and making more flexible the offer of all educational establishments which will be very useful in small centres such as those in emptied Spain. We have also presented improvements of general interest - which, in this case, we have not managed to compromise - on the age of access as well as the proposal for a new formative itinerary. We hope that the law will be well developed and implemented, with sufficient budgetary resources within the competence of the autonomous communities, so that the possibilities offered by modular training can open up opportunities for many people. However, we would like the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training to study a new formative itinerary, ESO-Medium Vocational Training, for vocational training which has not been included in this section and so that the new training law may in some way contribute to opening up expectations to all young people, including those affected by school failure. If it is possible to contribute with some elements to reduce school failure, it should not be disregarded. We therefore ask for a reflection on the way in which the following proposal opens up. It is a formative itinerary for secondary school students with a serious problem of school failure and who are included in diversification programmes. These students also have an itinerary adapted to their circumstances so as to enable their general training to be compatible in the last compulsory secondary education courses with another of an occupational nature in an average degree of vocational training. The aim of this proposal is to make educational use of all pupils. Perhaps it is good to remember that Finland's admired education system has a formative itinerary for this profile of students such as the one proposing our amendment that has been left out. We are concerned about the education, the training opportunities of all people, we are concerned about the emigration of talent into the educational diaspora living in the sparsely populated provinces for the benefit of a few large global cities. That is why yesterday we were able to defend the need to train, retain and attract talent not only to the capitals of the autonomous communities, but also to the rural environment, where technical staff are lacking, young people qualified in key sectors for the modernization of the economy and to promote projects for innovation and endogenous development. That's all, thank you very much. We wish this new law a long life.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Following a process of appearances, amendments and improvements, the Vocational Training Act is now being voted upon. From the very beginning, Euskal Herria Bildu recognized that the music of the preliminary draft law sounded good, but the adjustments to be made seemed at least complicated and, of course, without a consensus in the educational community of public institutions would be impossible. Let no one think - neither those who are taking a new path in the development of the FP strategy nor those who have taken earlier in any autonomous community - that the success of this path depends on the politicians who were in charge of the ship at a given time. Nothing further from reality. It is the professionals in the sector who ensure success if they really have them or will certify failure if they are not taken into consideration. Any law that is valued must have mechanisms to assess achievements in the short, medium and long term and, for that, from the point of view of Euskal Herria Bildu, it must be borne in mind that the minimum objectives to be evaluated should be based on the following fundamental points: Vocational Training must contribute to the social and economic empowerment of women participants in this society. It should also serve the social and economic integration of the most vulnerable groups, including migrants. Vocational training should help to achieve the social and economic integration of groups in situations of deprivation of liberty and facilitate access to training in the best conditions. Its quality level should be used to place society at high levels of competitiveness, social integration and inclusiveness and should be used to carry out projects for SMEs in the development of innovation strategies and improvement of productive processes. Vocational training must ensure that students have a dual system, which has economic conditions that allow them to approach levels of personal autonomy. At the same time, it must guarantee freedom for each autonomous community to keep pace with the development of its own strategy. Vocational Training must help young entrepreneurs to develop their initiatives so that they can contribute to the social and economic development of their country by training in skills and values according to the needs of society and by developing language policies that allow each community to communicate in its own language without renouncing communication in other languages. Vocational Training should be used to enable each community to develop strategies at the international level based on its own social needs or on its productive sector, helping to establish synergies with the rest of the education system, as well as with the municipalities, development agencies, technology centres and actors involved. If there is no system of continuous evaluation of this law of Vocational Training based on knowing the fulfillment of these objectives in the short, medium and long term, we will be left with the feeling that the time spent on discussions, appearances or amendments was not worth anything. Since the beginning of the elaboration of this law, Euskal Herria Bildu has been willing to collaborate from humility, from respect for the working people of the Spanish State, knowing that education is an indispensable vector for personal emancipation, to create a just and balanced society. We lend ourselves to collaborating from the experience we have for the work developed for years in the four provinces of Euskal Herria regarding Vocational Training. But since the collaboration, from the support, we ask that the law that is passed today not intercept the work, the way that has been done in our country. There will be a need for economic and human resources, both in large numbers. A strong and sustained momentum will be essential for more than one year, but it is true that this work in our case, in the case of the Basque lands, is largely already done. We appreciate the attitude of the groups that support the Government throughout this negotiation, as various amendments that we have proposed have been included. These include the inclusion of the psychopedagogical guidance service in the basic and media levels of the FP, coordination with social services, all that is related to the competence and socio-economic reality of the four Basque provinces, being able to work with and between different regions that today divide our country, be they the three Basque provinces of the French State or those on this side of the Muga, divided into two autonomous communities, the possibility of participating in international projects or the point related to people in prison. We will therefore vote in favour of this law today. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorozpe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, minister. I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group to defend the living amendments, to talk about the law and above all about vocational training. You know better than anyone, but also the rest of the compañeras and compañeras who have been working throughout the presentation, the appearances and in the Commission of Education and Vocational Training, that the Basque FP model has been one of the models that have been taken as a reference and that has been working collaboratively in drafting the bill that is being debated on this occasion. That is why I want to start talking about this, what I think is a virtue of this law, and that is that the success of a model of Vocational Training does not depend only on one part, it depends on alliances, collaborative politics, constructive politics, and I think it is a virtue that has had this law throughout the work. We were able to hear different appearances in the Commission prior to the presentation and all the social, economic and productive actors and different representatives who came here said that there were things they did not like, that there were things they would incorporate and that they had not been attended to, as we had also been treated as a group, but that they did have the perception that they had been heard and cared for. Therefore, the key to success in all public policies - and in this case in the FP in Euskadi has been the key - are the alliances, the three ces: collaboration, consensus and commitment, and I think it is something with which this law has also been working. We need to work with alliances, alliances between the public and the concerted sector, alliances between the education sector and the business sector; if there are no alliances, alliances between the centers, the professionals and the institutions, if we don't have all this fabric with a collaborative environment, it will be very difficult for us to move forward successfully. The Basque Nationalist Party is a humanist party, we define ourselves as such, and that means that the approach with which we approach all public policies is a humanitarian approach. We are addressing and are going to address major changes, enormous transformations in the productive fabric, in jobs and, of course, in the educational system, because in an environment as dynamic as the one we are living we cannot afford to have a static education and vocational training sector. We must have the capacity to adapt to these changes that will be disruptive; and in all this change or transformation that exists, when in our group we say that we have to approach a humanitarian approach, what we want to say is that the good we have to protect is people. We're going to work side by side with robots, automation is going to lead us to that situation, and we have to prepare people with technological, cultural and scientific capabilities that exceed and are able to bring added value. We must move from protecting jobs, which must also be protected, to protecting above all the people who will cover those jobs. I am now defending part of the living amendments that we have maintained, and I want to stand in two in particular. Firstly, it refers to the need to incorporate in the law scholarships for intensive dual vocational training, scholarships paid by the company at least with the minimum inter-professional wage. This in Euskadi is already being done by decree, it is being collected by decree, but it seems to us very important that this approach is also reflected in the law. Because precariousness also has to start avoiding from the educational sphere, and intensive vocational training is education, but in part it is also work, and it seemed to us that it was very important. And another of the amendments that we have tabled - the 412 and that we keep alive - was that the training and learning contract removes the age limit of twenty-five years that it has established, because we have to allow vocational training to include those most vulnerable groups; women and men who have been butchered, already of old age, will have to be training throughout their life for a job or for several. Therefore, we think it is very important that they be incorporated, it is necessary to be allowed, because it is the only way that companies will have to know them. It sounds music that is going to change, but in case that melody is cut, we wanted and continue to want our pretension to be specifically reflected in the law so that it can be guaranteed that all these collectives can be incorporated. We need to give correct answers and we believe that the law is advancing in internalization, in digitization, in new methods of learning. Vocational training centres have to be radically transformed; in Euskadi they are already being transformed with teacher training, with digital transformation, as I was saying; new centres that are able to respond to the needs that are going to arise. The changes introduced in entrepreneurship, in the relationship between FP and the university, in the relationship between FP and the company and in the progress of internationalization and language knowledge seem absolutely important to us. There are aspects that we like less, to which we have tabled amendments in the competition field, such as some of the registers they have submitted, and therefore we have incorporated at the previous stage a competitive safeguard in order to be able to defend the competition field. It will be up to you, Minister, in the regulatory development of this law and in the application of the law itself, to respect the competence and to allow you to follow the path of models of Vocational Training such as Basque, which are successful, which have been a reference for you and which have the recognition at European level and even in other global areas; you need to have that reference framework to keep moving forward. In The road, we and we will be delighted to be able to collaborate and continue to move forward, because what we play is a lot in the future of the workers who are going to take their way through FP. For a FP student it is an honor to have participated in this law of Vocational Training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in Citizens we believe that the adoption of the Organic Law on the Management and Integration of Vocational Training in the Congress of Deputies is an important milestone in the field of public educational policies in our country. Firstly, I think it will be the first educational law in our democratic history to be adopted, presumably without any vote against, and it seems to me that it is important to give the system some stability over time and we can assess its functioning in the medium and long term. In this regard, I would like to thank the Socialist and United Parliamentary Groups We can, especially Mari Luz, with whom I have been negotiating in a comprehensive way, the possibilities of understanding, although I think they are aware that we would have liked to improve some more parts of the bill. Our group welcomes the opinion adopted by the Committee on Education and Training. In any case, we believe it is important to say that the initial drafting of the article regulating the operation of the State Register of Vocational Training Centres was better than the one that will eventually be approved. It would also have been important to increase the duration of training in the intensive dual VET scheme, in line with the preliminary draft law. Secondly, I believe that the members of this House should be congratulated, because this law is going to help address one of the most important problems we have today, which is our unemployment data. As you know, the latest OECD data give us 14.5% unemployment rate in our country, and if we move forward and see the situation of young people, this figure is more than 30%. It is well known that the causes of unemployment data in Spain include the lack of a comprehensive and stable offer of vocational training studies and the disconnection between the training offer and the needs of human capital in the public and private sectors. On the one hand, this law lays the foundations for articulating, expanding and dignified these studies. The clear commitment to dual vocational training with periods of practice or training experience in enterprises, according to the scheme, should lead to a qualitative leap in the teaching of pupils by incorporating a longer period of practice; however, it is necessary to make an economic effort on the part of the different educational administrations involved to ensure sufficient places for all pupils. Last September we knew that the Ombudsman had decided to investigate the lack of public places in FP in Madrid and Catalonia in the face of the numerous complaints that had accumulated. In this last call, the demand for higher VET in the Community of Madrid was 18,000 places for an offer of 2218 vacancies. In Catalonia, at the end of July, there were more than ten thousand places less than applications for registration. If we really believe in vocational training, the autonomous communities will have to make an economic effort that must be supported by the State through greater funding than the existing one. On the disconnection between the supply of cycles and the demand and the needs of the productive fabric itself, this law gives a very important leap of quality thanks to the Citizens Parliamentary Group. For the first time a study will be carried out every four years on the state of the vocational training system, on this supply of training cycles, their suitability for demand by students and the percentage of employability of vocational training students and the present and future needs of human capital in the public and private sectors. We believe that this analysis, this evaluation, is very important to see the response that this law should give to current needs. On this point, we are surprised by the words of the spokesman for the People's Group in the Commission itself, when he said that the adoption of a law on vocational training which does not take account of job placement is already being failed. This is even more surprising if we take into account that your parliamentary group and the VOX group did not support our proposal for a vocational training evaluation system. We have also managed to incorporate, thanks to Citizens, language learning so that the autonomous communities can set the subject of foreign technical language they consider. It must be borne in mind that in Spain there are regions that have very important economic relations with non-English speaking countries that we must continue to encourage. For example, the autonomous communities of Catalonia and Aragon carry out a large number of exports to France. The Autonomous Community of Galicia also has a very important export market in Portugal. In our modest opinion, we believe that these measures will bring greater flexibility to the system and increase its chances of success. In turn, great efforts have been made to achieve a positive balance between the interests of students and businesses and to ensure an inclusive system of vocational training. The vocational training student will have half a day more compulsory rest per week, in line with the rights of the rest of the workers. In relation to enterprises, they will have a deadline until the end of 2028 to transition from the scholarship system to a training contract, which will result in economic relief following the impact of the crisis for all business entities wishing to participate in the training of students. We ask the Executive to maintain its readiness for dialogue with business entities during the regulatory development of this law, as without them dual vocational training will not be possible. With regard to the inclusiveness of the system, we are pleased with the progress that has been made, since the law will facilitate the support and curricular adaptations necessary to enable persons with disabilities to benefit also from the vocational training system. In short, we are satisfied with the text of the opinion, which will have to bring about a paradigm shift with regard to our education system and enhance vocational training as a tool to improve the economic and social development of Spain and, above all, of our young people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u13	Thank you, Madam President. In the process of discussion of this organic law of vocational training the initial text was improved; among others, some proposals of the BNG were incorporated through compromise amendments, although not those that affect issues that we consider fundamental, particularly in relation to the implementation of the whole FP as dual, general and intensive, the process of integration of the technical teacher of vocational training to the body of PES or respect for the competence issues. Starting with this last matter, it seems that there is no law coming out of this Congress that does not intend to give another twist to a permanent process of centralization. Fortunately, some aspects were corrected in the amendment procedure; others, not yet. The main problem we see in this law stems from the conversion of the whole FP into a dual, so it involves moving towards a certain privatization of a key sector of education, the loss of jobs and the involvement of private companies in the development of vocational training, from greater control of the curriculum to the admission or evaluation of students. Here too, despite some changes, a general orientation is maintained that we do not share. With regard to the integration of technical vocational training teachers, we believe that the problem created with Lomlou is only partially resolved. It is an advance the creation of the faculty specialized in singular sectors of vocational training, but perpetuates what theoretically came to solve: the difference in two bodies, with pay differences and professional career, to perform the same functions in the FP, as well as other limitations to the full incorporation of this faculty. For these and some other reasons, the Galego Nationalist Block is going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. For More Country, Verds-Equo today is an important day for our country, because we will finally pass a law of vocational training. It is a law that the sector obviously needed, but it is essentially a law that the country urgently needs, because the challenge of the ecological transition will need a lot of skills to adapt to the modification of the production system and because the rehabilitation for energy efficiency, the installation of renewables, the manufacture of more sustainable vehicles, the electrification of transport and a long one will need a high degree of qualification. In this context, highlighting work and vocational training is of great importance. In addition, it will allow people who have retired, disengaged from the education system to return to obtain a qualification that guarantees them a decent job. In short, this law is a cornerstone for the transformation we need, to move from being a country that bases a lot of expectations on tourism and hospitality - which can be important in a country - to one that is based on the economic transformations of the productive system we need. However, for us there is a flank that this law leaves scarce - we have raised it in the Education Act, in budgets and in other areas - which is the issue of mental health care, which has been so much talked about lately. Young people are one of the most vulnerable groups to this silent pandemic. Food disorders, anxiety or suicide attempts are issues that have generated a great social alarm. Educational centres, including vocational training centres, are places where the first alarms pop up. That is why we have maintained an amendment to ensure that there is a counsellor or psychologist for each of the vocational training centres. I would ask you, if you agree with this approach, to support our amendment 423. We have also maintained an amendment which means ensuring sufficient public places, because, as has already been raised here, there has been a mismatch between the demand for places and the possibilities for access to vocational training in some communities. However, as I said at the outset, we consider this law to be a significant and very important step forward...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u16	Mrs. Sabanes, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u17	I'm on my way, President. ... for our country, for all that, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u19	Good morning. Good morning, Madam President. The draft law on vocational training has finally arrived in plenary, and although Junts per Catalunya has not been a rapporteur or a spokesperson in the Committee on Education for the internal distribution we have in the Plural Group, we have worked from the very beginning on this draft law to improve it from our point of view. For us, it was a priority, indispensable and unnegotiable that there should be no competition and that the model in force in Catalonia should be allowed to be maintained. That is why at the time we recorded fifty-eight amendments, prepared in agreement with entities and organizations and with different sectors. Some have the objective of lowering the excessive regulation that we believe the text contains. We believe that there are disproportionately detailed provisions that may make their implementation difficult in the future. Others are intended to take account of the specificities of the different territories. We also include amendments relating to teaching staff, because there is a complex situation that needs to be solved - as has already been mentioned - and others to vary the percentages of training in companies with the aim of better distinguishing the general regime from the intensive regime. We are keeping a number of amendments alive, for which I ask you to vote in favour. They are as follows: 215, because we believe that private schools should be allowed to adopt their own rules of membership; 222, 223 and 224, because they aim to specify that companies should take due account of the educational level of the student who conducts the training. It may seem obvious, but sometimes the middle and upper grade students perform the same functions and should not be so. 235, 252 and 253 as it cannot be overlooked in the regulation of publicly funded centres as they are part of the network that responds to training needs. And 251, because if a right is granted to pupils, resources must be provided to the centres; otherwise, the exercise of this right will not be possible. Has it been negotiated? Well, depending on what you understand to negotiate. The Socialist Group has tabled eighteen compromise amendments, of which we were able to accept eight, because the rest have distorted our ideas. You value the degree of negotiation. We believe that it could have increased, although it was always done with very good intention, that is true. Is this a good or magnificent bill? We don't think so; we think it's better. Is this a bad bill? We can't say that either. It was necessary to order the FP and this bill represents an improvement, but not a perfect one. I do not want to end without saying that we are very pleased that the amendment that we are presenting has been included in the text, aimed at including the integrated second- chance centres - the nine-opportunities centres - as centres which will be able to offer vocational training. They do excellent work, which helps to reduce exclusion, and can become a gateway to learning cycles. My thanks to all of them for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u21	Thank you, President. Having a wide range of vocational training is an investment, an investment in economic and social progress and in individual training and realization, because allowing people to train in what they like and interest not only brings individual benefits in terms of achievement and happiness, but also is fundamental to having good professionals, which in turn is the basis for having a competitive economy and even for being able to make progress in research and development. On the contrary, there would be a significant loss of opportunity and talent. In addition, it is important to allow continuous vocational training throughout the working life to be offered, in order to ensure permanent modernisation and competitiveness so as to enable rapid and optimal adaptation to economic or productive changes and to challenges such as new technologies or the circular and sustainable economy. A wide range of vocational training also enables enterprises in all sectors to have qualified professionals, and this not only results in business success and economic diversification, but also in the creation of new niches in the market. In this regard, appropriate mechanisms are also needed to link vocational training with all the productive fabric and, in particular, with SMEs, which in my country account for more than 90 per cent of enterprises. But to ensure a wide range of vocational training and sufficient material resources to consolidate educational excellence, economic resources, many economic resources are needed, and this law does not guarantee these economic resources. The good intentions without money that it supports do not solve the challenges and problems of vocational training. You know that in Catalonia we have since 2015 the Law on Vocational Training and Qualification, approved by Parliament with a consensus of 90%. Why do I comment? Because we have already had six years of experience with a model that doesn't work and works very well for us. Look at the data in our current dual model. Course 2020-2021: participating centers, 317; companies hosting students from FP Dual, 3608; participants from FP Dual, 7741. As you see, our model, which we understand to be successful, is based on a curriculum distribution which allows the two dual forms of training that the new law envisages, with a minimum stay in the company of 20% and a maximum of 50%, but with an allocation of 33% of the curriculum. This is the proposal which we support in Amendment 77 and which you are going to vote on today; it refers to Rule 55.5. Our centres, with a wide range of training offers, as I told them, make curricula flexible and adapt with a wide tradition of relations with the environment for the realization of practical training in workplaces, for the delivery of teaching in alternation and dual mode, which have become the best way for professional integration and to cover the jobs demanded by companies. These centres must be the focal point for the qualification and retraining of people, in order to respond to their expectations and needs, with an inclusive training in which, above all, all people have room. That is why we insist that the law should provide a framework of reference, but that it should be flexible enough to allow it to adapt to different realities, those already present and the future. With regard to the present, in our case, the reflected data that I have just given you so support it. In short, it is a law that in this new gradual and modular scheme orders more than integrates. It should be recognized that the management of skills accreditation, professional certificates and training cycles is a very good initiative. However, integration has not just left the governments, which have to implement the policy, or the social actors satisfied. The Catalan law creates a system of governance where the most representative employers and trade unions have a lot of weight in the final decision of public policies to be developed. Is it slower? Yeah, but it's safer, too. We know that there are social actors who have asked for this model and have been denied them; it is a shame. Vocational training and qualification policies require the co-responsibility of companies and workers' representatives, and this is demonstrated by a model that is as democratic as possible. On the other hand, the Spanish State, as you know, is mainly composed of SMEs and this law gives them an opportunity to generalize the dual FP, the most relevant instrument to generate insertion in all sectors that are a little desperate to find profiles. However, without funds to enable the creation of pooled mentors, programmes that accompany the unions in the deployment will be impossible and the dual will remain in the big companies. The obligation to create a dual tutor without initial accompaniment can lead to failure. I have just asked, Madam Minister, that they respect our area of competence as much as possible. We will follow very closely the implementation of this law, so that the proper functioning of dual training in Catalonia is not altered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u23	Thank you, President. Spain is the only European country that fails to reduce by 30% youth unemployment, a rate that doubles that of the euro area and that of the European Union, triples that of the OECD and is five times higher than that of Germany; Spain is the only country that accumulates such a high unemployment among children under 24 years of age. More than 50% of Spanish companies do not find the professionals they need. Spain is the second largest school drop-out country in the European Union and exceeds the 2020 target by 60%. Faced with this bleak picture, we have a huge responsibility to carry out policies that allow young people to be enchanted by life; young people who with decent and stable work can form a family in safe cities and regain the illusion of having children; young people who value the effort and motivate themselves to give the best of themselves to society and others. But by legislating against life, childhood, the dignity of the person and equality between Spaniards, as his Government has been doing systematically since it came to power, it is impossible to reverse these figures and, above all, it is impossible to generate hope among young people. [[Applauds]] You encourage a youth resigned, conformist and without ideals, create the false illusion of being satisfied, with paguitas and bonuses to have them subdued. In the same vein, the text we are discussing points to the lack of capacity among many people, but there is no mention of the responsibility that the Spanish educational system can have in this regard. And it is that this issue cannot be overturned, because the real success of vocational training is that prior education - compulsory education - is based on excellence, merit, capacity and effort, concepts that have been abandoned by the Celaá Act, in favor of, for example, that everyone holds, being able to pass from course with suspended subjects and without recuperation exams. [[Applauds]] In this way, instead of dealing with the problem, it avoids it, prolongs it and makes it endemic. Not in vain, the Spanish who finish compulsory education and the university have a lower level than the young people of the surrounding countries. And it is that without a culture of effort and excellence there is no nation to come forward. There is no law that I can do with so much destruction, not even that we are debating today, no matter how much it can be used to whitewash and to forget some of the constant abuse by this Government of our fundamental rights, its grave omissions and the constant ideological roller from which this law does not come free. For example, we read: elimination of professional stereotypes and gender biases in vocational training options. Also: the broadening of expectations towards professional families STEM of young women, as well as young people towards professional families feminized. Look, all the expressions of this type are left. What we must do is present all the training offers in an attractive way to men and women and it is they who, in freedom and without being conditioned, decide; simple, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We have also proposed to remove all references to inclusive language, which is completely useless and faracious; and it was not necessary at all to stain with such ideological bias a law of vocational training which must be eminently resolvable of a serious problem of employability among Spanish young people. In our amendments, we are committed to a single register that alleviates the bureaucratic burden that the seventeen autonomous communities impose on the vocational training system. Therefore, we ask that the General Register of Vocational Training Centres be unique and valid throughout the national territory. The experts in the sector have been denouncing for years that there are up to seventeen different dual professional formations in Spain, and this makes it necessary for a company based in different autonomous communities to carry out different administrative procedures according to the community in which they are in order to implement the dual FP. That, logically, disincentives companies. On the other hand, this law prioritizes the public sector as far as training centres are concerned - reminiscences of the Lomlou - but in this case in contravention of the whole spirit of the law, because in order to achieve this agile and flexible system of training and learning that is intended, public-private collaboration is absolutely necessary. Here again the ghost of communism, who wants to control everything before the panic that arouses everything that smells of freedom, even coming into contradiction with other articles of the same law. How will they achieve, for example, the goal of rapidly and solvably doubling the number of people with intermediate training in order to respond to the needs of the production system? How are they going to do this without betting on the freedom to set up centres and greater autonomy from them? In addition, there is a lack of legislation aimed at ensuring the free provision of vocational training with different forms of funding. With regard to dual vocational training, it certainly constitutes the excellence of vocational training, but the dual vocational training, which in this law is called intensive and which combines a high percentage of training in the company, does not reach 4% of all vocational training in Spain today, so it is at least doubtful that it will be able to extend as it is proposed, even if it sells to say so. On the other hand, it would have been necessary to simplify the training system and not to make it so gloomy. It's a challenge that hasn't been met. Nor are the issues of virtual training, teacher training and accompanying this law with a national reindustrialisation plan satisfactorily resolved. In short, we need a more ambitious, less regulated, less bureaucratic, less rigid model of vocational training, which is more in line with the times we live in. And although we believe that the text in general has worsened after the presentation and that the amendments introduced are going to make the law quite inoperative, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u24	Mrs. Trias, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u25	Yeah, a second. It is you yourselves, with concessions to separatists and communists, who have already put a stop to a law that was trying to take off with half a flight. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Trias. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Jiménez Linuesa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Consensus and unanimity, these have been the concepts that we have heard most from the Socialist Parliamentary Group during the course of this law since 8 September, when it entered this House. That should be logical. It should logically be that when a proposal is to be discussed in this House, which we all consider necessary to bring vocational training into line with the new needs and demands, the spirit of all of us, of all parliamentary groups, was consensus. I believe that this has been demonstrated by my parliamentary group, but perhaps the left-wing bloc has used the term consensus and has not wanted it to become a reality. And it is that when you govern, when you govern the left, you always intend to impose your proposals and that everyone, or in this case the People's Party, accept for good all that you propose. But, of course, if it is the People's Party that governs, the thing changes; there you no longer speak of consensus or unanimity, there, by default, we always find the refusal and confrontation with you. Or was it that in 2002 you did not consider that vocational training should also be adapted to the needs? It is important to remember that the current Vocational Training Act was drafted and proposed by the People's Party, which was adopted with its votes against and that, in addition, the Socialist Party tabled an amendment to the whole. As I said before, you, above all that comes from the People's Party, are negative and confrontational. The People's Party on this occasion, before this bill, has not tabled an amendment to the whole and we have studied the text in a positive way, that is, always trying to modify and add what we thought was the most just and equal text for all. That is why my group has tabled eighty-three amendments, of which four, four of eighty-three have been accepted. Is that the consensus and unanimity they say they seek for the adoption of this rule? We understand that we are being rejected by some amendments, because you do not believe in freedom, and we understand that we are being rejected by some amendments, because your government partners - communists, independenceists and ETA heirs - are not allowed - we all know that your government is based on them and that their political discourse is based on them - but we cannot understand that, for example, the one concerning physical activity and the care of the body, which we have proposed to be part of the content of vocational training, has also been rejected. That is why I tell you that you say that you are seeking consensus for public opinion, but what you do is impose your ideology on us, as you have always done, as you have done with the Lomlou and as you want to do with this law. But do you know what happens to this ideological burden? It harms us all, but above all it harms the foundations of public school, which you so claim to defend. Look, of the 147 amendments you have negotiated, half have done so with the nationalists and only seventeen with my parliamentary group. It is clear who you really wanted to seek consensus with, and it is that Moncloa's armchair likes you too much. [[applause]] Look, we cannot be accomplices by relying on amendments that limit the decision-making capacity of students and families and that seek to leave part of the sector out of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, public school populism no longer serves them. Citizenship knows that the public can live with other educational models, such as concerts or private education, because they are necessary and complementary, and more so if we talk about vocational training. We are, of course, in favour of providing the best resources for public education. It is the majority and, therefore, we defend it and want it to be of quality, but we also believe in that plural and diverse offer and in the right, both of those who deliver it and of those who receive it, to choose the type of education they want. We thought it necessary to improve this text and we have presented fundamental aspects that have been rejected. For example, we insist once again on improving the job placement of students, because if the training offered is not fully linked to finding a job, it is a FP that will fail. Furthermore, we consider it essential to maintain training grants and not only the training contract, which must also be flexible in order to be able to adapt to the needs of dual vocational training and also to set in motion incentives for enterprises. We value positively the ability to limit the dual mode in the basic grades, in the assumptions whenever they are determined, since the age of these students makes it necessary to rethink this option. But, come on, I don't think my group is suspicious of its clear and firm commitment to dual vocational training, as it was we who launched it in 2012. We also believe it is essential to value the participation of trade union and business organisations, but more representative of the sector, in order to be able to carry out the governance of vocational training. And we have also sought to improve the text with various amendments to dignify vocational training, including those relating to teachers. In the first presentation of the law, my parliamentary group requested a third presentation, since only two had been established, to deal exclusively with the regulation of vocational training teachers, because we consider that it was, and is, one of the most controversial issues within the law. But the Socialist Party and its partners always refused, because the proposal came from the People's Party. Lomlou and other rules that directly affect teachers and their access to the public service have generated enormous legal uncertainty. The additional eleventh provision of the Lomlou and the development of this rule only complicates the situation of the faculty, without giving real solutions and leading this group not to know what their situation is. If we do an analysis, the data are worrying: unemployment in Spain, 33% and, in addition, 20% of young people do not study or work; 25% of the working population without an intermediate qualification, and 55% of companies looking for workers with training who do not find it. I mean, in our hand is the solution. Please, gentlemen of the left, don't make it the problem. I conclude, President, by encouraging you, gentlemen of the left, to carry out a reflective analysis of how you have historically assimilated the proposals of the People's Party in the field of education, including this latest law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u28	Mrs. Jiménez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u29	I'm on my way, President. Go do this exercise, because when the PP wins the next elections we will remind you of our behavior and yours, and who was in the hands of students and entrepreneurs and who played to do politics and negotiate with a topic as important as vocational training. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Mrs.Montesinos de Miguel: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u31	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning we will adopt a new law for the management and integration of vocational training; a law that wants to place vocational training at the forefront of our country's development, and that corrects a historical weakness that our educational system had. It is a law that also pays a debt to the student who chooses the path of vocational training, a path that has often been scorned and unfairly described as second-level education. Our country needed to modernize its vocational training system, equip it with quality and make it a key part of the social lift that should represent public education. In this regard, I would like to recall with you some facts that reaffirm us in the need for the law. At present, 48% of the working population lacks any professional accreditation, i.e. 11 million workers with no vocational training qualifications and no proof of their work experience. On the other hand, we have indices far below the European Union and the OECD in terms of the enrolment of vocational training, which in Spain is 12% while in the European environment it is 25%. But I would also like to give some hopeful information from this rostrum, namely that youth unemployment is falling from 42 % to 7 % in vocational training graduates. Well, well, what does all this tell us? That it was urgent and necessary to take that path of renewal, which we already started in Lomlou, and to promote the modernization and the scope of vocational training, but that path could certainly be drawn in many ways, and this coalition Government has chosen to be faithful to the principles that shape its action. Therefore, we are talking about a law for public vocational training, worthy of the teaching body, and in line with the change of productive model that we need to complete the ecological transition of our societies. Public, because it is our duty and obligation to guarantee citizens' access to education and to do so on equal terms. According to EPA data for the fourth quarter of 2020, 20% of young people between 18 and 24 years of age have neither access to work nor to training, while the European average would be 13%. And, at the same time, year after year we have to see how thousands and thousands of students who apply for a public FP place stay out, and need to spend a blank year or have to go to a private center, where they can charge more than 5,000 euros for tuition. In the Community of Madrid, for example, more than half of the people who wanted to study this course have run out of public places. That is why, in Unity, we have negotiated several amendments with the Socialist Group so that public administrations have an obligation to ensure that there is a sufficient supply of public places for vocational training. The communities where the right governs, where the lords and the ladies of the People's Party rule, will only be lacking, therefore, to honour this law and not sabotage it, as they usually do with the Lomote. [[Applauds]] It is also a law worthy of the teaching body, because it addresses the improvement of the conditions of the technical faculty in terms of labor rights and equal pay. In this sense, it is a law that responds to a historical demand of vocational training teachers, making it possible for all technical teachers with degrees, degrees or engineering to have access to the body of secondary education teachers. On the other hand, it also creates a new body of teachers who specialize in unique sectors of vocational training, in which they will be able to impart technical teaching to senior vocational training technicians. We are faced with a law of vocational training, above all, in line with the change in the productive model that our country demands, which has in the ecological transition, in the development of the care sector and in the digitization of the economy its main challenges. In this regard, we are faced with a law which looks at these new sectors, which establishes a single and integrated system of lifelong vocational training, and which creates a catalogue of standards of professional competence. All vocational training will also have a dual character and specialized centres of excellence will be set up by sector, laying the groundwork for a relationship between vocational training and the university. All this without forgetting that this new law of vocational training must also be a tool to end the abuses that certain companies do to students in practice, thus establishing training practices with full guarantees. In this respect, the law consolidates and regulates training actions, collaboration and co-responsibility between training centres and enterprises, with the aim of ensuring that the training period of the student is genuinely formative, and that in no case does it imply the supplantation of functions that only belong to the workers. Finally, I would also like to acknowledge the consensus with which this law is born, because it is legislation that has been made listening to civil society, but not only, it is also a law that comes with broad agreements between parliamentary groups. Thus, of the 592 amendments that have been tabled, we have managed to negotiate and approve 209; this is more than a third of the amendments that have been tabled by all the groups, which indicates the will of understanding and agreement that has presided over the processing of this whole law. Ladies and gentlemen - I am finishing - I believe that we are facing a unique opportunity for the expansion and improvement of our vocational training system, vocational training for the 21st century, to ensure the best technical qualification, of course, of pupils, but also to promote their access to employment citizenship, that is to say to the exercise of the rights that all citizens as workers have. There has been no other objective that has mobilized our energies throughout this process, and that is why we will vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sancho Guardia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. We discussed the opinion of the draft organic law on the management and integration of vocational training and, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the parliamentary groups, the lawyer, the staff of our parliamentary group and, in particular, my colleagues, Luz Martínez and Lazarus Azorín. It is a bill for modern and European vocational training, which articulates the FP of the education system and the FP for employment, and places it at the forefront of our country's progress and development as an element of economic transformation, in a clear demonstration of the political will and priorities of this Government and its President. From its president deforms decided since he arrived in La Moncloa, betting in an important way for the FP, establishing himself as a priority and placing himself preferentially among his political objectives; carrying out in the last three years the Strategic Plan of the FP, the integration of the double system of FP in a single ministry, the Modernization Plan, promoting its development with 2200 million of the Recovery Plan, promoting the Alliance of Vocational Training: a country strategy. And finally today, with the adoption of this law, the commitment of this government to vocational training and with the stated objective of modernising and consolidating the FP as successful lessons, associated with talent, innovation, employability and improving the competitiveness of our companies is firmly ratified. [[Applauds]] There had never been so much talk and interest in vocational training. And this is not a coincidence, it has not arisen by spontaneous generation, it has been induced by this government and the socialists are proud. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of the FP is not only the updating of some teachings of the education system, it is the engine of the change of the productive model, an angular piece for the sustainability and economic growth of the country. And for us, for the socialists, it is something else: it is about putting resources and vocational training at the service of all people, of all, who are the centre of the system, in the most accessible way and at any time in their lives. It means equal opportunities, because we regard education and training as the fundamental pillar for progress in equity and social justice. It is a law that emerges as a result of consensus among educational institutions, employers, trade unions, autonomous communities, third sector organizations and the Government. There had never been such a cross-cutting agreement for the future of vocational training in our country, with an impeccable procedure, both in previous work and in its process of drafting and processing Parliament and intense information and public exposure work, consultation with autonomous communities, bilateral talks with all sectors involved in vocational training and a process of participation of more than four thousand suggestions. On the proposal of the parliamentary groups we had sessions of appearances in the Commission of agencies, institutions, associations and social actors; the result of this whole process there were many incorporations: anything that was not contradictory to each other or subject to subsequent regulatory development, with very important points such as rural or depopulation, digitization processes, environmental sustainability, attention to groups with special needs and others of a social nature. And already as a draft law received 592 amendments, of which finally approved, between direct and transactions, 213 amendments of the groups that have degenerate the spokesmen here in their interventions, and that have allowed to modify or incorporate important aspects such as the accreditation of the competences by work experience or non-formal and informal channels, the professorship, second chance centers, Plan of Digital Competences, scholarships in the dual, semi-presential and virtual education, registration, system report, etc. These are contributions, ladies and gentlemen, which have improved the bill, although it is true that I have to admit that there are some who think otherwise, right, Miss Trias? I that the parliamentary procedure has made the law worse, and it's the second time I've heard it, ignoring the pretentious contempt for our work, what is that? The obvious nature of involution and denial of the reality of your group or, I also have to think with a smile, an ode to the work of the Government in its legislative initiative? [[Applauds]] Madam, Jiménez, I who today was imbued with the spirit of the dates, when I hear them, in the end always and despite the consensus, remind me of the fable of the scorpion and the frog. You speak of consensus saying that it has not occurred. Do you know how many transactions we have offered to your parliamentary group of which the Socialist Parliamentary Group has offered? 40% of those we offered to all groups. If that's not consensus! [[Mrs. Jiménez Linuesa makes negative gestures]] He also talks about youth and youth unemployment. Mr. Clavell made me rather surprised the other day. Today, compared with you, 3 points less; today, in youth unemployment, in job creation, the most outstanding data. But I just have to remind you what happened yesterday. What was your greatest contribution to youth unemployment? A plan called Exterior Mobility, I think it's called. Please! With regard to economic memory, what you have also mentioned, Mrs Trias, is EUR 5400 million. Only in this year's budget for 2022, 2299 million, and in the Modernisation Plan, which is already being implemented, there are 2075 million. I don't know what else you want there to be right now. I guess if someone has aspirations to rule, something will have to do them, because we're not going to teach him even on such an important subject as this, ladies and gentlemen, his chief of ranks acts like the scorpion with the frog as it sinks, telling him: I couldn't help it, it's my nature. [[applause]] Finally, I have to tell you that today we take a giant leap with the approval of this law. We have a great economic and social opportunity, and that is why for us this law is a strategic country bet, but, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the country will also depend on you, on what we are able to build together. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Sancho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u35	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 27/ 2021 of 23 November, extending certain economic measures to support the recovery. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u36	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I compare today to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 27/2021 of 23 November, which extends certain economic measures to support recovery. This is a rule that joins the battery of measures that we have been implementing with agility, determination and effectiveness since March 2020 to protect the productive fabric, employment and household incomes. It has been almost two years since the pandemic began, and the data confirm the effectiveness of the measures taken to prevent a structural impact on the economy. We have promoted an effective response at the health level, but also at the economic and social levels, and thanks to these measures we have avoided a fall in GDP of more than 25%, the destruction of more than three million jobs, a global financial crisis of unpredictable impact and a great deal of damage to our society. The progress of the vaccination process and the improvement of the health situation have made it possible to recover mobility, encouraging the recovery of the economy and an improvement of business solvency, which has become more intense in the second part of this year. We have left behind the hardest and the strong recovery is reinforcing business accounts. However, the persistence of the pandemic in the European environment and the vulnerability of companies in the most affected sectors require the extension of some of the exceptional measures, in order to ensure that viable companies will be able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by this new stage of economic expansion. This extension takes place in the context of the decisions taken by the European Commission itself, which approved the sixth amendment to the temporary framework of aid a month ago, extending the validity of some of the measures to support businesses, which in principle expired at the end of this year. It is also necessary to lay down energy provisions guaranteeing a price regime in the event of a gas supplier change, the economic and financial viability of the last resort trading companies, and the promotion of the deployment of the public access infrastructure for rapid charging of electric vehicles, as well as measures to address the environmental protection and recovery of the Mar Menor. Finally, in view of the extension of closure and restoration work linked to the closure of coal undertakings' mining activities, it is necessary to accompany public aid at the rate of implementation of such work, so that workers performing the work are not adversely affected in their access to such work. I now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to detail each of the measures included in the Royal Decree-Law which is now subject to validation. Firstly, the deadline for liquidity and solvency aid for our productive fabric is extended until 30 June 2022. The Royal Decree-Laws 8/2020 and 25/2020 introduced two lines of guarantees, amounting to up to EUR 140 billion, to guarantee the financing granted to the autonomous and Spanish companies to alleviate the impact of the pandemic. In principle, the capacity to grant the guarantees expired on 31 December 2020, in line with the European Commission's temporary aid framework and, on the occasion of the successive extension of that temporary framework, the possibility of the guarantees has been extended on two occasions: until 30 June 2021 and until 31 December this year. Recently, as I have pointed out, the sixth amendment to the European Temporary Framework was adopted, which extends in general until 30 June 2022, and in this context it is appropriate to align the Spanish legislation with the new deadline, since, although there is no doubt about the process of economic recovery in our country, which is in progress and is strong, some of its effects persist and support for businesses and self-reliant should be maintained until the recovery is fully consolidated in order to boost that economic growth. As of 9 December 2021, the two lines have deployed guarantees amounting to more than EUR 103 billion, enabling more than EUR 135 billion of financing to be mobilised into the productive fabric, with more than 1148 000 operations of which 98 % have been subscribed by SMEs and self-employed. Undoubtedly, the lines of endorsement are one of our most effective programmes to respond to the pandemic, and it is one of the most effective programmes of all the countries of the European Union in terms of use, extension in the productive fabric and the ability to cushion that negative impact of an unprecedented shock on our economy. Likewise, with this royal decree-law we extend until 30 June 2022 the deadline for the return by the autonomous communities and cities of the remaining transfers of direct aid provided for in Royal Decree-law 5/2021, so that these administrations have the necessary funds to deal with the possible resources that are produced through administrative means. It should be remembered that this Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 created the COVID line of direct aid, for an amount of 7 billion euros. The management and control of this line is entrusted to the autonomous communities and cities, provided that they had to return the remnants before 31 March 2022. Since the Government, we have been adapting legislation to enable cities and autonomous communities to maximize implementation, and for public support to truly reach those who need it. Thus, there is already some autonomous community that is close to one hundred percent concession, although there is a huge variability in the degree of execution of these by the different autonomous communities and cities. In view of the fact that some aid applicants have lodged administrative appeals against negative, negative decisions, it is necessary to extend the period of reinstatement to the State of the remnants in order for the autonomous administrations to have the funds necessary to deal with these administrative appeals. So, with this royal decree-law we extend until June 30, 2022 the deadline to return the rest of the unexecuted balances. Secondly, this royal decree-law extends to the financial year 2021 the exclusion of losses for the purpose of applying the cause of corporate dissolution. Through Royal Decree-Law 16/2020, which was already replaced by Law 3/2020, it was agreed not to compute the losses of 2020 for the purposes of determining the causes of the dissolution of capital companies. Thanks to this measure, we have avoided the liquidation of viable companies under normal market conditions, but which were subject to an exceptional situation as a result of the pandemic. In doing so, we have avoided a completely undesirable scenario, from the point of view of economic stability and also of preserving the economic value of businesses, as well as jobs. Given the impact of the health crisis on business performance also in this financial year 2021, and as the ongoing process of reforming the competition rules also ends, it is appropriate to extend the exceptional treatment of the financial situation of companies during an additional financial year, including the financial year 2021 in order to maintain and preserve the objectives pursued. In this same line, with this royal decree-law extend until June 30, 2022 the planned moratoriums to avoid the automatic triggering of competition processes. As I said, the aim is to give additional time to those companies most affected by the pandemic so that they can balance their balance sheets, avoiding unnecessary competitive bidding on viable companies. This extension also corresponds to the extension of the temporary aid framework and, in addition, gives us legal certainty during the transitional period until the reform of the Competition Law, which is one of the milestones of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, enters into force and I hope that it will soon arrive here, at the parliamentary seat, for processing. Thirdly, this royal decree-law extends until 31 December 2022 the transitional period which suspends the total liberalisation of foreign direct investment in Spain from the European Union and the European Free Trade Association. As you know, in the context of the pandemic, Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 introduced the suspension of the liberalisation of certain foreign direct investment in Spain, subject to a prior authorisation regime. In particular, the suspension regime affects foreign direct investment by residents of countries outside the European Union and also of the European Free Trade Association, or by residents when the actual holders reside outside the European Union and who lead the investor to hold 10 % or more of the Spanish company or an effective participation in its management and control. Subsequently, this control measure was extended until 30 June 2021 and then until 31 December 2021. Given the persistence of some of the circumstances that led to the introduction of this extraordinary control regime, this royal decree-law extends until 31 December 2022 the transitional regime that provides legal certainty to investors, but also allows us to carry out proper control of foreign investment in strategic sectors. This Royal Decree-Law contains three measures within the framework of energy policy. First, a maximum period of six months of coverage is set for essential supplies of natural gas that do not have a supply contract. In the case of essential supplies - e.g. for health centres and hospitals, day-care centres and schools, asylums and nursing homes, institutions linked to national defence, security forces and bodies, etc. - the interruption of supply is not generally applicable. In order to prevent the consumer from continuing to consume gas without a contract, which would be irregular, this Royal Decree-Law extends the supply obligation of last resort traders to these customers for a maximum of six months or until they have - this is the preferred situation, of course - a supply contract with a trader. Secondly, the Royal Decree-Law reinforces the guarantee of recovery by last resort natural gas dealers of the deficits that may arise following the measures introduced in 2021 to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas on international markets, that impact on retail gas and electricity markets in our country. To achieve this objective, this royal decree-law includes the gas system as a subsidiary guarantor of the amounts due. Thirdly, in order to promote the deployment of the public access infrastructure for rapid charging of electric vehicles, another key investment element of the Recovery Plan, it is prohibited to include the electric charging service in exclusive fuel supply contracts that occur when operating under a flag or franchise regime. The objective is clear: that the holder of the service station may install electric charging points by himself or through a third party other than the oil operator with whom he has the franchise supply contract. In addition, the present Royal Decree-Law regulates aspects relating to the decarbonisation and impulse of renewable energies, within the framework agreement for a fair transition from coal mining and sustainable development of the mining regions for the period 2019-2027, which included a set of elements of support to the closing companies and workers, in particular by providing coverage to workers who lost their jobs and supporting the economic activity of the mining regions. In order to achieve this objective, measures were implemented to provide new social assistance, the deadline of which was 31 December 2018 for those workers whose employment relationship was extinguished by the closure of the productive unit and measures ending 31 December 2021 for those who maintained a working relationship by carrying out work to close and rehabilitate the affected natural space. In view of the fact that these tasks are being extended beyond the deadline of 31 December this year, and in order to prevent these workers from being harmed, this Royal Decree-Law allows access to such assistance by workers performing the closure and rehabilitation tasks in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2025. Finally, this royal decree-law establishes measures aimed at the reconstruction of the Minor Sea. The intensification of land uses and resources in the basin of the Sea Minor, together with the effects of climate change, have led to catastrophic events in a short time, such as the massive mortality of fish and other marine organisms in 2019 and more recently in August 2021. In order to reverse the situation of ecological deterioration, among other measures, it is necessary to give a strong impetus to the environmental protection and recovery works of the Sea Minor. Thus, the present royal decree-law establishes the declaration of general interest of these works as a mechanism to enable a coordinated and determined action with common guiding principles: the restoration of the good ecological status of the lagoon by restoring its environmental dynamics, the restoration and renaturalization in different fields and the application of solutions based on nature. Ladies and gentlemen, you will share with me that these measures of the Royal Decree-Law, which today, I hope, is validated by their nature and purpose, fully justify the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent need required by Article 86 of the Spanish Constitution as an enabling budget for the adoption of a Royal Decree-Law. This royal decree-law is part of the set of measures that we have deployed since the beginning of the pandemic and of which we already clearly see the positive impact, since we have been able to protect a solid basis for rapid recovery. Spain is now growing, creating jobs and is in full recovery, with a particularly positive development in the labour market. Spain has the largest number of Social Security affiliates in its history, some 20 million people. Pre-pandemic levels in affiliation, unemployment and youth unemployment have been recovered or even improved. Workers in ERTE COVID continue to descend and stand at about eighty thousand. This means that in just a year and a half we have exceeded pre-pandemic employment levels, while in the previous financial crisis this process has cost our country more than a decade. This Royal Decree-Law closes the set of general measures adopted in response to the pandemic. Now we are at a different stage characterized by this rapid recovery, and the current support is more specific, it is more specific to those companies or sectors that may still need this special support. Support measures are also gradually giving way to the momentum derived from the Recovery Plan. So I am counting on you all to see the importance of the vote that we face this morning and that, as you have done in the royal decrees previous laws that we have tabled, you vote in favour of their validation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam First Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. I will abstain from the validation of the measures contained in the royal decree-law that you have just explained. But, once again, I am not going to miss the opportunity to emphasise that this procedure for which you have just called for support is another urgent response to a socio-economic drift that is not the result of the pandemic, Mrs Calviño, but of the failure to meet the commitments of the Government and the vavenes to which we are drawn by an economic policy which does not correspond by far to the situation that society is experiencing and which has thousands of self-employed people, businesses and workers living there. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate to hear in this Chamber the government's self-congratulation with regard to the energy measures that have failed so badly. Where was that solemn commitment made in the investiture of candidate Sánchez to lower the price of light, today in his historical record? What is the oblivion of the non-compliance with the framework agreement on coal mining and the sustainable development of the Asturian mining regions and the rest of Spain? From the black hand of this Executive, assisted by complicit and surrendered unions, we have moved from the just transition to the mustia transition, from decarbonization to desertification, from employment to ruin and from full to general impoverishment. The renunciation of Spain's energy sovereignty is a disaster without palliatives, a product of a radical and unmatched environmental policy in Europe and the world. Today you bring with you tirites to stop an irreversible and lethal productive and demographic bloodbath that this government is calling upon us to do. Madam Vice-President, the economic measures implemented through this royal decree-law are an urgent remedy to alleviate the failure of others previously taken by the Council of Ministers and anticipate treatment with placebos in view of the inconsistency of the forecasts contained in the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2022. It is not futurology, but I am sure that, while you are part of this government, next year you will come back to propose new formulas to correct yourself and your colleagues in the blue bank. We carry the whole XIV Legislature with this marathon of validation with which the Government supplants the main function of the General Courts, which is to legislate. In one year, it is the third time - the third time - that the deadline for liquidity and solvency aid is extended because the multiplying forecast announced by the Government was far removed. I conclude, Madam President, because with this regulatory method based on the need to give problems of their own generated by the government, you cannot go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the same group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President, these measures are clearly insufficient. It is a decree for recovery and its inadequacy is evident, we are the country of the European Union that is most struggling to recover. Therefore, it means that the measures are not bad, but they are not enough. What I would like to ask the Government is what measures it intends to put in place at a time when prices are rising by 5.5 %, which have not been so since 1992; at a time when the price of light in the wholesale markets has risen by almost 500 %; and at a time when there are sectors which are burdened by this type of question of prices or the price of fuel or the price of electricity. What does the Government intend to do to ensure that these issues have the least impact on the economy? We saw the president of the government say that the Spaniards were going to pay for the light this year the same, in similar terms, as in 2018. We do not yet know what the Government is going to do to make that a reality. There are 15 days left to finish the year and the light in the wholesale market has gone from 50 euros megawatt/hour to 300 euros megawatt/hour and is reaching a daily record. Can you tell what the government is going to do to get families to pay on the bill for light in similar terms to 2018? Well, I'm going to answer: nothing, they're not going to do anything. So the other question is, is anyone going out of the government to apologize to the Spaniards for a new commitment that has been a deception again? Because it is obvious that this is a deception, Madam Vice-President. Of course, if there is a member of the government who should go out and apologize to the Spaniards for something they promised and that they will not fulfill, it is a minister, especially one who should resign directly, resign. Mr Garzón is not here, but he should be ashamed to remain on a Council of Ministers when he said exactly this when the government was in the People's Party: 'This Christmas the light will have a price 10% higher than last year. Thousands of families will not be able to keep their homes at adequate temperatures, which will have a serious impact on the health of those who have less. No decent government should tolerate it.' If Mr Garzón said that it was not a decent government that tolerated the light rising by 10%, what do you think of a government with which the light has risen by 500 %? What does Mr. Garzón think? Can Mr Garzón continue to be a member of a government, in his words, not innocent, but absolutely indecent, because the price of light has increased by 500 %? Or do you intend to remain plugged into the armchair, with the heat produced by the seat, while the Spaniards cannot heat their homes? [[Applauds]] That is Mr Garzón, that is the policy of this government, that of prescriptions when they are opposition and completely different prescriptions when they are government. What the Spaniards and the economy are waiting for are measures of the government, not slogans that no one is going to stay behind, Madam Vice-President. We need real measures, we are the economy that is most struggling to recover from the whole of the European Union. Of course, we have significant growth, but it is that we come from an economic fall of 11%.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u41	Mr. Sayas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u42	The measures are insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u43	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u44	Thank you, President. Egun on the devils. Madam Vice-President, today we are again debating a decree that we are going to support on account of responsibility because, despite the progress of vaccination and economic recovery - which we do believe is taking place, although perhaps slower than expected - the consequences of the health crisis resulting from COVID continue, of course, to impact, especially those groups of self-employed workers and SMEs, to which we believe we must continue to accompany. We do believe that there are measures, it cannot be said that there are no economic measures, because there have been them throughout all the royal decrees. A decree that is true that it does extend the validity of a series of provisions to provide legal certainty, economic stability and support to businesses at this very important stage of recovery. You have already explained the measures, I will not repeat them, but I do want to make a small criticism - as I have done many times - because this decree has not been agreed or negotiated with the parliamentary groups, at least not with this group. It is necessary for the groups to be sufficiently aware in advance of the projects and initiatives that the Government wishes to promote and attempt to reach a satisfactory agreement in the event of a discrepancy. So they agreed with this group and the truth is, Vice-President, they do call us one or two days in advance, tell us the bulk of the measures, but we don't know the small letter, and there is no text that we can analyze in greater depth before. I think that's just a courtesy call, and that's why we're asking you to do it another way. We believe, too, that they have been shielding themselves in the pandemic for too long to bring in real decrees laws that, in many cases, we believe do not follow the premises of urgent need and are becoming instruments with an ordinary formula for dealing with such measures. All we have left for the groups, and hopefully, is to make improvements to those bills in their processing phase. I say luck because so far everything is on standby. Week after week the enlargements are extended and today we are given a decree amending the following royal decrees: Royal Decree-Laws 25/2020 and 8/2020, which extend the granting of guarantees; Law 3/2020, on procedural measures; Royal Decree-Law 34/2020, on urgent measures to support the business solvency of the energy sector; Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, on extraordinary measures to support business solvency; Law 34/1998, on the Hydrocarbons sector; Royal Decree-Law 25/2018, on urgent measures for a fair transition in coal mining; Royal Decree-Law 17/2021, on urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the price escalation of natural gas; and Royal Decree 104/2010, which regulates the implementation of the supply of last resort in the natural gas sector. In total, six royal decrees issued. Do you know how many would have to be dealt with as a bill? Five. And we continue with modifications of them, but yes, with their processing as a bill still in limbo. Then, I would also like to know what you would say if this were to happen in the opposition and if that Government did the same. I think you should keep that in mind. That's where I leave it. We will simply vote in favour of responsibility, as I said. And we will also vote against its processing as a bill. Why? Because all those royal decrees that are being amended are already in that phase of processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u46	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, my parliamentary group is going to support this royal decree-law. We will do so because we find a real decree-law - as we have met many during this legislature - which is a mixture of subjects and especially patches, although many of them are necessary. We welcome the extension of the time limits for granting guarantees in the face of the economic impact of COVID-19, as well as the amendment of Law 3/2020 on procedural and organisational measures to deal with COVID in the area of administration and the extension of the time limits for the extension of competitions and the amendment of Royal Decree-Law 34/2020 to extend the suspension regime for the liberalization of certain foreign investments. These are positive things, but then, within this royal decree-law, the patches come back. When I say patches it is for something that has also been commented by the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, since they have had the opportunity to modify many very real decrees in the process as a bill, for example, the real decrees that have been aimed at implementing measures to reduce the impact of the rise of the bill of light, and they do not; three real decrees to try to solve a first real decree that all I wanted was to intervene in the electricity market. That is what we do not like, because in this royal decree we should have already come up with a measure, which is the reduction of VAT on the bill of light and that stoppage or that decrease in electricity tax, because it is necessary to do so in time and citizens need to know in time what is going to happen to their bill. Why? Because with that royal decree by which they wanted to carry out the reduction of the profits of the electricity companies, all they have achieved is that there is uncertainty and that the markets see that a market can be intervened for any reason, but has the bill really fallen? Why don't they use real decrees for real urgent measures and do so in time? The lowering of the bill for light is a very important thing that citizens really need, and should already be approved in the General Budgets of the State. Citizens tabled an amendment to reduce VAT. We had time and we still have time to make decisions and actually lower the bill. With these royal decrees, which they have wanted to change again here, we believe they do not succeed. They had time, they could have brought them here by now and they could have been approved in the budgets. As I say, make better decisions and, above all, give us the opportunity for parliamentary groups to be able to amend in the process as a bill, because we could have accelerated a lot of the decisions that are made with this royal decree. [[The Lord]] With regard to measures on electric mobility and measures on the fair transition from mining, we also believe that within this royal decree they are perhaps of the least profound, they could have been much more ambitious. The Government must abandon merely cosmetic proposals and make a real approach to sustainable mobility. We believe that in order to continue working on that ecological transition, on that energy transition, we need the Government to bet firmly. It is not for us, only, to remove an electric mobility barrier. The government must implement faster measures, because we will only have two years to implement many recharge points. How do we expect people to trust to get close to the electric vehicle - which is already going to cost them because of the high cost it still has and because the measures that are being implemented to subsidize or help buy electric cars are late - if they do not know what will happen to the charging points? We had the opportunity to change the issue of recharging points in the Climate Change Act. We tabled an amendment proposing that there should be more points of replenishment and that the Climate Change Act should already have a first commitment, so that people would see that the measures taken by the government are positive and go at a sufficient speed, but here they are taking a small step again that we believe is short. With regard to the fair transition from coal mining, it is not enough to prolong the closure aid of coal mining facilities without offering reliable and safe alternatives to workers who have their entire working life in the sector. Why has the Government not included in this royal decree-law any alternative initiative or plan to ensure that fixed employment is not lost? They could have taken advantage of it. The Employment Exchange of the Institute for the Just Transition provides for the creation of between two hundred and fifty-three hundred jobs, lasting between thirty-six and forty-eight months. But, for example, for regions such as Aragon the figure planned to be created there is very small and, according to the last report of the Mining Commission, it is far below what the area really needs. Moreover, the same report admits that the relocation of workers affected by the closure of companies, those who are not entitled to pre-retirement, has not been made possible. Is it true, therefore, that only four years of aid can be extended by the Government? We believe that now, at a time when new jobs are emerging in the energy sector, it would be a good opportunity to take more useful measures for job creation. It is a missed opportunity within this royal decree. Among the measures we believe to be interesting and very important are those aimed at solving the problems that exist with the Mar Menor, in Murcia. It is a great problem that the bats have there with the pollution, with all the works they have to do and that are pending. It is important that urgent measures be taken to mitigate the impact of the problems that exist with the pollution of the Sea Minor, but we are also concerned about the speed at which they are implemented. Therefore, from here we want to ask you that, if they are really urgent, please be implemented quickly because in Murcia you cannot wait much longer to save the Minor Sea. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u47	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u48	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support the validation of this royal decree-law for the reasons that I will then explain, and on an exceptional basis, we are not going to support the processing as a bill. We will approve the validation not because, as some other spokesman has said, we have been consulted previously - it has not been so in this case - but because we share the measures set out in this royal decree-law. Most of the measures that are established are an extension of the time limits of previous royal decree-laws and it is a coincidence that some of these royal decree-laws are being processed as draft laws, but with such a delay that it makes practically impossible and makes sense to process as draft law. I'll explain myself. The parliamentary processing of the Royal Decrees-Laws 8 and 25 began, but since there were Royal Decrees-Laws, which with four others are amended, we decided to process them as a single bill, but their processing has not yet begun in the field of the paper. The Royal Decree-Law 34 happens something very similar. The Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, the one on aid, to which I will also mention later, is still in the period of submission of amendments despite the fact that it was validated almost ten months ago, when most of these aids - most, yes, not the part we would like - are already granted. We have therefore entered into a very inefficient and, in turn, very inefficient legislative dynamic. I know you are going to tell me that this is not for the government, that this is a matter of the legislature, but I want to denounce it again from this rostrum. With regard to the content of the royal decree-law, which, as you have dismissed, has several aspects, I would like to make a few observations; essentially, two. Article 3 of the Royal Decree-Law extends the moratorium on competition procedures, with good judgment from our point of view. And you yourself from this rostrum have said something that also seems reasonable: well, let's see if when this moratorium is over we are able to have the reform of the Competition Law in place. But I want to warn you of a situation we can find ourselves in. After almost a year and a half with the competitive procedures suspended - both voluntary processing and third-party tendering - we may find ourselves faced with a lot of cumulated procedures at the time the moratorium is lifted. If this lifting of the moratorium coincides with a new competition law, with important, profound - let us hope - and necessary reforms, a bottleneck can be produced during the first part of the second half of 2022, a certain collapse in certain Mercantile courts for the processing of projects; first, because they will have to apply a new law on which they will not yet have practice and, second, because there will be a significant number of accumulated cases. We therefore urge the Government to adopt the draft law on the reform of the Competition Act as soon as possible, and we urge the House to proceed in the most urgent way, because, if not, there will be a problem. At the same time, we also ask the Ministry of Justice to think of a shock plan to strengthen the Mercantile courts, so that in this period of the second half of 2022 these courts do not collapse, generating an important problem in the processing of these procedures. We have studied the preliminary draft and we see very positive aspects in the reform of the Competition Law, necessary aspects, but I would like to say that we have tabled some amendments, especially in the area of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises or, if you wish, micro and small enterprises. The second question I would like to comment on is the amendments to Royal Decree-Law 5/2021. We agree to extend this deadline so that the autonomous communities can make justifications, but I would like to make a reflection, the same as we did from this rostrum when the validation of the royal decree-law was proposed. And it is that the 7 billion -5000 in global terms - for all the autonomous communities, beyond the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, that seemed a significant amount but that some feel that it was insufficient, turns out that ten months later they have not yet been exhausted. One may think that it is because companies did not need them, but others continue to think that it is because the calls were not made sufficiently flexible so that those companies that really needed them could access them. It has been found that this has been the case, because even today these funds in some autonomous communities have not been exhausted. Anyway, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u49	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pérez Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u50	Thank you very much, President. Today we are debating a royal decree-law that is part of the coalition government's social shield. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has built a social shield that protects those who need it most in a context of greatest difficulty. Measures such as ERTE, extraordinary termination benefit for self-employed persons, supply guarantees or minimum living income are good examples of how a Government should act in a crisis situation. And this is a lesson we must never forget, because in the 2008 crisis policies of cuts and austerity caused much pain and suffering and, worse, only served to aggravate the economic crisis. We do not forget those who saw in the great recession of 2008 a juncture to put an end to equal opportunities, nor those who, taking advantage of a situation of global crisis, enriched their already enormous accounts at the expense of the suffering of many. It was already obvious then, but now empirical certainty is very recent: as the cuts aggravate the crises, social policies help to cope with the crises. Some say that the merit is not from the coalition government, but the merit is from the European Union. It is true that today no one denies that the European Union's response has also been different from those of previous crises, but it is no less true that there are two ways of being in Europe. The progressive coalition government went to Brussels to demand a social response to the pandemic, while the People's Party stands on the side of the Netherlands so that Spain does not receive the European funds, and still today they are maneuvering in Brussels to harm Spain's interests. There are two ways to be in Europe. For some, Europe must be the supranational guardian of neoliberal essences, and for others, Europe is a common space, a shared democracy that serves to protect social rights, as Vice-President Yolanda Díaz demonstrated a few days ago, pushing forward the directive on European minimum wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is not over, although we are well prepared to fight it and try to end it. To defend public health we must maintain a message of prudence and to defend social cohesion and save jobs we must maintain the social shield and measures to protect our productive fabric. This is what the Royal Decree-Law does, extending aid to companies' liquidity and measures to support their solvency. This royal decree also contains facilitative measures to guarantee energy supplies and electric mobility, and that is fine, although we must not forget that we have a serious problem with electric oligopoly and that we therefore need a public energy company to drive the energy transition and reduce the electricity bill. [[Applauds]] With regard to measures related to the difficult situation in the Minor Sea, I would like to say that it is a good thing that certain environmental protection and recovery works are declared of general interest, but an ecological catastrophe such as the one they are suffering in the Minor Sea needs many other measures, although unfortunately the Government of the Murcia Region is not prepared to take them. We need to act according to the rigorous diagnosis that citizens are putting on the table, creating a regional park of the Sea Minor that protects the lagoon as a whole and sets a stable legal framework. We need a protective shield for the Minor Sea and stop the multinationals from agribusiness and wild urbanism. Finally, I would like to move a message, although it may not be the one expected of a Member. Normally, it is the people who ask us things, as it cannot be otherwise, and the public authorities have an obligation to work to defend the interests of the social majority. And this royal decree goes in that direction. Let us hope that the rights have the gallantness not to vote against all these social measures, as they have been doing. But today I'm going to take the leave to ask for something and address that union and social majority, which, by the way, is on the street claiming salary increases. I come from union struggles, from unionism in the company, and I am clear that it is not enough for the government to defend the working majority: we have very recently the lessons that the Cadiz workers have given us. The working class must and must be organized; the working class and civil society must defend themselves and mobilize themselves to try among all to force and help reverse the country disaster that left us those disagreements committed by the PP government, which with impudence and under a blanket of corrupt accounts B and dark maneuvers, among other things, untied social and civil rights, emptied our pension hut, gave billions to the bank and completely disrupted the labour market. [[Applauds]] And all this for the greater benefit of the great capital of great entrepreneurs and even of some characters closely linked to the government and the PP party itself. And all of that as it sank and left our humble fellow citizens helpless. A lot of what's now comes from there. History shows us that the struggle of the working class is sometimes not enough, but it is no less true that whenever there has been democratic progress it has been because the workers we have organized to push them social rights. And I say more, the coalition government needs the pressure and push of the working class, of civil society, of feminist movements, which promote the inclusion of all and all without exception, and of the ecological movement. Ladies and gentlemen, compatriots, compañeras, comrades of civil, social and trade union struggles, let us never forget that the rich and powerful are aware of their class and press each day through their economic decisions and their media to preserve and increase their privileges. That is why we must all work together and organized to defend the rights and well-being of all people, without leaving anyone behind. We shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u51	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again - and there are many of them now - the Government of Pedro Sánchez is coming before this House to continue to impose what is already becoming a genuine legislative fraud, an outrage that we cannot and must not fail to denounce. Because eroding the role of the Legislature is eroding democracy. To the abuse in the use of the figure of the royal decree-law as a model of ordinary law - there are already eighty-seven decree-laws approved by Pedro Sánchez-ustedes add something else: the systematic and irregular practice of including in the same norm, with rank of law, matters that have little or nothing to do with each other. And they do it routinely. It is worth bringing this up today when they try to extend measures incorporated in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, because precisely then they tried to take advantage of that rule aimed at regulating, in theory, economic measures to, through the back door and mocking the parliamentary debate, amend the Regulatory Law of the National Intelligence Centre and incorporate in the executive of that body the then second vice president of the Government, Pablo Iglesias. Do you remember? Because we do. And the Constitutional Court also agrees, because we appealed it and the High Court gave us the reason, judging the unconstitutionality appeal that condemns the Government for the abuse in the use of this legislative instrument. [[Applauds]] But you guys don't give a shit and you get back on your feet. The Royal Decree-Law 27/2021, which today brings about validation, seeks to regulate in a single rule issues as varied and disconnected as the competition law, the supply of gas, the return of unexecuted direct aid or the development of mining areas or the situation of the Mar Menor. A veritable misconception. Madam Vice-President, this legislation constitutes a lack of respect for the principle of separation of powers and for this House. Moreover, with this you generate enormous legal uncertainty, something so damaging to confidence, a key to economic recovery. But it is also that, in an exercise of frivolity that we have never seen before, the Government is using legal rules that lead to the validation of this House in order to make a propaganda that is simply inadmissible. The autobomb that I am going to quote you textually below is not the extract of a meeting of Pedro Sánchez in the midst of the electoral splendour, it is not an information leaflet that is distributed in the headquarters of the Socialist Party, it is not even something extracted from the PSOE website, no. This is from the State Official Gazette referring to measures to protect the productive fabric, employment and income of households. The Royal Decree-Law says: 'Less than two years after the start of the pandemic, the data confirm the effectiveness of the measures taken to prevent a structural impact on the economy'. Confirm the effectiveness! Why? By decree? Madam Minister, it is possible to sink the economy on the basis of decrees - yes, you are on it - but it is absolutely impossible to recover an economy by decree; backwards. During the confinement, Spain was the country that destroyed the most companies throughout Europe. We still have fifty thousand companies today less than before the crisis. In the coronavirus, our country was the one that destroyed the continent's most employment, at a rate ten times higher than the European Union as a whole. And we are far from, by the way, recovering the actual level of employment in the private sector, which is being affected by the crowding out effect or expulsion by the public sector. We recorded in Spain the worst data in Europe regarding household income and we are the ones who are the furthest away from recovering the economic level before the COVID, while many countries have already surpassed it. Minister, the management of the government is not a success. If anything, the data confirm that the measures implemented by this Government were and continue to be a stupendous failure. In VOX we were the first to request the creation of lines of endorsement for the financing of companies affected by the epidemic, but we denounced their inadequacy and slowness. At the moment, we call for agile, forceful measures aimed at saving businesses and jobs and urge us to implement an economic policy that promotes growth and job creation. For many months, Spain was the only country in Europe without direct aid, and when they finally approved it they did so reluctantly, for a much lower amount than real needs and through mechanisms so poorly designed that their development has been a complete fiasco. It happened with the minimum living income, which has barely reached 41% of the households for which it was intended; it happened with the Fund to support the solvency of strategic enterprises and, today, one year after its start-up, it has reached companies linked to chavismo - yes - but only 10% has been implemented; it happened with the direct aid mechanism. Of the planned 7 billion, 2500 will be returned by the autonomous communities due to administrative difficulties in accessing money, and unfortunately we are seeing that it is happening with European funds, whose final degree of execution is being so disastrous that companies have not yet seen a single euro. Madam Minister, our productive fabric is seriously damaged. The Banco de España warns of even more signs of deterioration in the solvency of companies. Our country is now leading the increased business insolvency of the developed world. Simply, you cannot look elsewhere and settle in a triumphalist discourse and extend what has never worked. Spain must rectify the course of its economic policy, and it must do so now, without delay. You cannot tarnish our credibility and continue to base public accounts on economic forecasts that are no longer believed to be anyone. You cannot continue to increase the deficit and the public debt as if there were no tomorrow, condemning our children and our grandchildren to bear an insurmountable burden. They cannot continue to increase political, electoral and client spending by suffocating the Spaniards without that having consequences. You cannot continue to make Spain the only country to raise taxes in the midst of an economic crisis. They cannot consolidate an energy policy that has condemned us to have light and gas at the highest price in history. They cannot continue to increase social contributions when we maintain the highest unemployment rate in Europe. They cannot continue to condemn our young people to unemployment with educational laws that allow them to pass the course of their dependents. I could go on and on, although I would always come to the same conclusion. Those who cannot continue are you, Minister, because you are the greatest obstacle to recovery. So, help Spain and leave as soon as possible, because we'll only get ahead when we leave them behind. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u53	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. This royal decree shows that the triumphalist discourse of the Government goes on the one hand and the economic and social reality goes on the other, and that is why it is necessary to continue to extend the economic measures and the competitive moratorium in order to avoid a chain failure of thousands of self-employed people and businesses. In addition, the Government uses another royal decree, a small tailor's drawer that includes measures in various areas. We are in favour of environmental measures declaring certain works of protection and environmental recovery in the Minor Sea of general interest, but we need to know which ones and, above all, when. And most are economic: of these, three out of four are term extensions; the third extension of the term for liquidity and solvency aid. As of 30 November, 92,5 % had already been endorsed. Very well, but it is that President Sánchez, Vice-President, sold us the mobilization of 200,000 million, a multiplier effect by two, and the reality has been a financing of 121,922 million, a multiplier effect of 1,31, far from that two. In addition, many companies have been left out because their entities have not committed to the line or have been granted in cases without need. As I warned in the validation of a decree in 2020, they are not putting conditions on financial institutions and that is a risk we cannot take. And the ICO COVID investment line could be considered a failure: only 10,397 million of the 40,000 approved have been covered, and it is foreseeable that it will remain unmet because growth expectations are much lower than expected by the government and very large regulatory uncertainty - labor reform, energy costs -, which clearly discourages investment. The deadline for the repayment by the Autonomous Communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla of the remaining transfers of direct aid provided for in Royal Decree 5/2021 is also June. There are, however, 25 billion of the 7000 which cannot reach the self-employed or SMEs with the requirements required. It is not so much a question of extending the deadline as of removing the corset. No one understands such a wide sleeve with the help of Plus Ultra and so narrow for the self-employed; they do not understand it either. If we are talking about the Fund to support the solvency of strategic enterprises, we have not even reached 15% of the concession, after a year and a half since its approval. Another success, Madam Vice President. We agree with the exclusion of the 2020 and 2021 losses for effects due to dissolution. If we are seeing that you do not serve to implement measures effectively, nor to make predictions. Those of 2021 have been destroyed, first by estimates of analysts and institutions and then by reality. The 2022s go the same way, because they have already been reduced by all the forecasts. You say 'equi', analysts say 'equi minus and' you go on, wrong you go wrong, committed to the equi. In the end, he ends up having to rectify. And I wonder if the forecasts are good for anything. If they don't serve, don't bother, and if they're worth it, I'm sure they're worth it, let's do them right, let's play a lot, and let's get out of so much demagogy. And speaking of demagogy, yesterday he was telling us a lot of things. He was telling us about the good job data. And what are you going to do? To repeal the labour reform that makes it possible. Perfect. He was also telling us about high tax collection. Well, of course, we've been taxed. While many Spaniards find it difficult to reach the end of the month, you collect. He keeps telling us about the cruising speed of our economy. It's been over a year with that canteen, Madam Vice President, saying that next quarter we'll take cruise speed, but I don't know if we've lost the cruise or if it doesn't have enough engine to take that speed, but it never just arrived. He also told us that growth is solid and that recovery is very strong - then he went down hard -. With the fall we've had, how are we not going to recover? It's drawer. The analysis that you must face, if it has enough value, that for now you have not had, is that of comparison with our peers, and there we lose. Even today morning he was telling us that we could do worse. Worse than what? What is the last country in the European Union, according to the OECD, Funcas and other analyses, to recover pre-crisis levels? Until 2023 is not expected, Madam Vice-President; until three years later. Do you remember the V? Why? What is the country that had a debt with a 9 point difference with the European Union in 2019 and is now at 32 points, perhaps in which the public debt of the whole of Europe has grown the most? Worse than what? What is the European country in which productivity has fallen the most - last data also very damaging - and with a lot of difference? These are your'success', Madam Vice President. When are you going to face them? Madam Vice-President, you were talking to us yesterday about a solidarity Spain, and we fully agree. We have demonstrated this in the previous crisis and in this one, especially in the vaccination campaign. He was also talking about a Spain that looks to the future with confidence and hope, and that is true. That is why all surveys say that the next president of the government will be Pablo Casado. The Spaniards have hope, because they know that it can be done differently and, moreover, they know who is going to do it. [[Applauds]] That is why, Madam Vice-President, your lack of respect for the leader of the opposition yesterday is even more intolerable. We can't afford it. There is no justification and must be rectified as soon as possible. How can you not be held accountable for trying to conceal abuses against children under the care of socialist governments? [[Applauds.-Mr.Hispan Churches of Ussel: Very well!]] You will be disgusted, but I assure you that the more disgusted are the Spaniards of their petty behavior and, worst of all, of the harmful results of their economic management. Thank you so much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u56	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, do you know what it's like to have extreme frivolity? Go up to this rostrum, give lessons and try not to pay taxes. [[Applauds]] Pay the taxes you owe, because you've received a conviction. That's having a lot of frivolity. Madam Vice President, thank you for the detail of the royal decree-law. The Spanish and the Spanish have many reasons to be proud of our country, despite the barbarities we hear in this Chamber. We lead vaccination worldwide, we lead the deployment of the recovery plan, we are the first country in the European Union to receive the first official payment of 10 billion euros, there are now more members of Social Security than before the pandemic, there are fewer stops now than before the pandemic and economic data show that recovery. And I could only begin by congratulating myself on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Madam Vice-President, on having been elected by all the Ministers of Economy and Finance of the European Union to chair the main advisory body of the International Monetary Fund. [[Applauds]] That's pride and shows that our economy is in good hands. Today a new royal decree of law, which is the reflection of what we govern for. It is extraordinary and urgent because the situation is extraordinary and urgent. We've heard here that they're patches. Park! Extending aid to businesses is patchwork. Extending help to workers for some are patches. Supporting the Mar Menor are patches. Supporting measures to ensure gas supply for some are patches. No, it's not patches either this royal decree or the 87 we have before us. They are a set of measures to help families, workers and businesses in this much-needed recovery of our country. And today it seems that yes, today it seems that they will support this royal decree. They're going to press the green button today. At best, or not: by yellow; just like they get hives by pressing the green button. This is the way. The path, which is not, Mr Paniagua, the constant, continuous, shameful insult that our parliamentary group here today wants to denounce. [[applause.-Mr Paniagua Núñez makes negative gestures]] We are tired of the use of hatred in this Chamber, the use of insults and the move of citizens out there. This isn't a show. Respect. We can confront ideas, we can be different in many things, but we can never hide in insult. It is a shame that we want to denounce, and they will not find us. They are used to denying everything; they deny all reality. It turns out that the aid is not reaching the companies, when the fund's aid is being managed by the autonomous communities. Each Autonomous Community is doing so in its own way and at its own pace, and not all Autonomous Communities are having the same percentage of execution. But we cannot say that aid is not coming, we cannot say, because to say that is to deny reality. Are you telling us that an autonomous community like Madrid has not been able to manage the €700 million to help businesses and self-employed people? Are you telling us that Mrs. Ayuso hasn't been able to do it? Leave her without Christmas dinner if you want - it's her internal battle, and we already know they're getting nervous: you just have to see Mr. Married here yesterday in the control session - but don't deny the reality. In the Community of Madrid, 70% of the funds have been allocated to help businesses and self-employed people, EUR 500 million, 27,000 enterprises and self-employed people have received these direct aid. That can't mean the money isn't coming. The money's coming. Balearics and the Canary Islands have exhausted the funds, and, as I told them, other autonomous communities are moving at a different pace. They don't want us to get the Spaniards and the Spanish into their internal party troubles. They deny Mrs Ayuso the Christmas dinner, but do not deny that the aid is reaching, for the purpose they have, companies and workers. [[Applauds]] And on the Mar Menor, now it turns out that yes, they see everything very important and it turns out that Mr Paniagua says he needs the details of those works and investments. Ladies and gentlemen, the degradation of the Sea Minor is not from yesterday, it is not even from when the pandemic. In 2010, a year before you arrived at the Government, the Ministry of the Environment already made a report describing investment in the Minor Sea as urgent and necessary. What did you do? Denying reality again. We're getting used to denying everything: there's no Gürtel, there's no Kitchen, there's a bunch of plasticin rings and, when 2016 was the big, sad episode of green soup in the Minor Sea, all you ever thought about was saying that the Minor Sea was better than ever. And how much we saw Mr. García Aegean making videos saying he bathed every day in the Sea Minor. But those videos were shirted, in his office and without a swimsuit. He always bathed in the Sea Minor because the situation was better than ever. Two months ago, the advocates of the popular legislative initiative, not us, already told them that, please, they would stop lying, that you have wasted almost two legislatures on environmental measures in the Minor Sea. And now Mr. Paniagua lacks the detail. Two legislatures without doing anything, two legislatures wasted. You, just as in the previous financial crisis you left businesses and families, you also left the Mar Menor. They missed almost ten years of initiatives, allowed the area to be contaminated, as now, week after week, they are trying to pollute the country. But they have us in front of them. In each Council of Ministers we are showing that it can be governed in a different way. Today, the Government is returning to the business sector, to the workers and, yes, to the environmental and urgent needs that are needed in the Mar Menor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u58	We move on to the next point. Amendments approved by the Senate to the bill establishing minimum living income, from Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 of 29 May. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u59	Thank you, President. Before moving on to the subject before us, I would like to make two previous comments. The first is that today there is a university strike in Catalonia called by the Sindicat d'Students dels Paísos Catalans to protest against the Llei Castells. From here, full support. Target the students you're struggling with. And the second preview is that an hour ago the arrests in Cadiz began because of the strike that took place a few days ago. It seems that, although the Government came out to defend from this rostrum the shipyards and the workers in struggle, today they have already forgotten the defense of the working class of Cadiz and now there are arrests. That's not how it goes. The right to strike is a right and what is not worth it is to start stopping days later for no reason other than to go against the fundamental right to strike. [[The lady]] I turn to the subject before us, which is the Senate's amendments to this decree-law. We are going to abstain, especially because of the local implications of funding; we think it is not good news. But the text also has other problems. The vital minimum income is not working. Why isn't it working, ladies and gentlemen? Because, according to CGT data, 60% of the files are misprocessed, which leads to another much more serious problem, and it is that some 4700 files and therefore living units have generated a debt. This means that they will have to return the amount of the minimum living income and that they will also have an impact on other claims for benefits. Can you imagine the anguish that you can pose for families who ask for minimum living income that, in addition to their complex economic situation, have a debt, ladies and gentlemen? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u61	I thank you, because it seems that the issue of the debt of families does not matter very much to your ladies and gentlemen. I guess it's because of the salary they're paying and you don't have to ask for a benefit and you don't have to sleep in case you have to give it back. The second element that fails in minimum vital income is the bureaucratization of the benefit. You have to prove yourself to be poor. It's kind of a crossroad, like the seven Asterix tests. Many steps must be taken in the process of asking for the benefit, a benefit which, as you know, does not fix the family savings very much. It's a patch; a patch that is welcome, obviously, but, if for this patch you have to prove again and again that you are poor, it's not working very well either. Incompetence of the administration and also extreme bureaucratization of minimum living income, a benefit that, as you know, is fundamental to many families because the economic situation is very complicated. But also for us there is a fundamental discrepancy, which is the ultimate conception that lies behind the minimum living income. We think that democratic societies have to be based on an idea that is very beautiful, very simple, but that costs a lot of reality, the idea of freedom, the idea of freedom understood in republican terms, that is, freedom understood as material equality. And this is not the minimum living income. What underpins freedom in republican terms is basic income. Why? Because it involves a redistribution of resources, because it assigns an economic benefit to a person for the mere right to exist and because behind the universal basic income there is a beautiful idea, you want that all people have the right to exist with dignity and that the function of the State is to give them this dignity, and not to place them and distribute them unequally, according to the work they have or - data of the last month - the inheritance they have, because in the Kingdom of Spain people do not have opportunities according to what they study or what they work, in the Kingdom of Spain people have opportunities according to who their family is and what surnames they have, because what they distribute most is the inheritance. Therefore, if inheritance is the most widely distributed, it is a matter of justice that the State corrects this and a basic income is a matter of justice. A lot has been said about mental health lately and in this legislature. One of the main elements of destabilization of people and families is the feeling of anguish not to reach the end of the month. There is also much talk of macho violence. One of the main tools to avoid situations of macho violence is that women have economic independence, and this is also the basic income. Equal opportunities, that kind of ghost that is always in the environment, is a fiction when the distribution of opportunities goes by inheritance. Equal opportunities will be a reality when everyone has the same opportunities, when freedom is based on material elements. Yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia the office for the pilot test of the basic income was inaugurated thanks to a proposal of the CUP. This is the way. And this is not a utopia, universal basic income is not something that we have invented the radical independenceist left. This is a reality, which can be carried out according to how wealth is distributed. And the most progressive government in history, if it wants to honor its name, instead of repressing the workers on strike, what it could do is redistribute resources. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u63	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen - very briefly - minimum vital income is a benefit the content of which has already been analysed in this House, on which we have voted in favour, and on which certain amendments supported today, above all by a Catalan group, even if we are going to be able to agree on the purposes of some of them, we understand that today they will only distort the content of this law, which is why we are going to vote against. However, for the future, we can share some of the issues contained therein. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking again about minimum living income in this House and from Citizens we have insisted that minimum living income is an essential tool... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u67	...so that our welfare state is effective, prioritizing public intervention in those groups that are in a situation of severe material poverty, who are just those who most need it. The importance and complexity of this instrument, something we have already expressed at the time, would have recommended a gradual implementation, which, however, was rushed by the outbreak of the pandemic, and the processing of this regulation we believe is left behind. We understand that important achievements have been achieved in parliamentary work, and I would like to highlight the good agreement that we have achieved by ensuring that the beneficiaries of guardianship and orphans are included and that there is an income exemption, so that the maintenance pension is not counted. I would also like to stress that there has been a significant correction given the insistence of different parliamentary groups and the work carried out by the impact of child platforms related to the third sector. Previously this minimum living income was charged with a pen the child allowance, that is, households in relative poverty with children did not have access to that fully necessary allowance, so different parliamentary groups, including the liberals and the platforms involved, began to express our position, which led to a correction in the legislation, establishing a complement that would alleviate the existing deficiency. It seems to me relevant to make a reference to what is the objective of minimum living income, which is to help those families who are in situations of severe poverty. And I am surprised that throughout all parliamentary work both the Ministry of Inclusion and the Government's proposing groups have listened deafly to certain needs that we believe we have realized. We are clear that minimum living income is necessary, but we are also clear that not even half of the recipient families need it and not even the budget allocated for it is being spent. Why, then, are we not paying attention to the realities that our parliamentary group is showing, as is the Youth Council itself? Why are those between the ages of 18 and 22 not included who belong to vulnerable groups who are in poverty and are independent because they have a different vision of life? This affects groups of people related to immigration and the Roma community. Why is the possibility of applying for minimum living income not included? Why is there discrimination by age? I have said this on several occasions, but the regulations come out with this defect, with the defect of not reaching those who need it most...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u69	... and comes out with the disagreement of our Government for not wanting to incorporate an amendment in this regard. I would therefore like to highlight this deficit. Between 18 and 22 years of age there is discrimination by age and deaf ears have been made to a totally real need. And in reference to another deficit that also has the minimum living income, as I have already pointed out, why are two families not considered to live in the same home to two brothers, as happens in many cases, because, if not, they do not reach the end of the month? They are situations of real poverty and it would be a way to reach those who need it most. Why can't they ask for two vital minimum income if they are two different units of living together? We have also shown this, as have various organizations in the third sector, but again there is another deficit: minimum living income by listening deafly to certain realities. From Citizens we have also been maintaining that the revenues of the twelve months prior to the application date must be accounted for. The Government's proposal, rather than clarifying, is confusing. We do not therefore understand why this rigour is not accepted in terms of improving access to this vital minimum income. On the other hand, we are faced with a large social muscle related to poverty that only contemplates assistanceist action, without the norm itself including the socio-laboral insertion itineraries that we proposed, because we do believe in a minimum vital income as a social muscle, but we also believe in the need for exits from the situation of poverty through training and employment. Why does the rule not include itineraries? In fact, one of the amendments that comes from the Senate is to charge for actions of employability. Therefore, we believe that minimum living income, addressing severe poverty, with all the data we currently have on situations of need for many families, is absolutely necessary. However, there is too much bureaucracy and there are difficulties in access, we have not talked during this processing of those people who are collecting it but are collecting ridiculous amounts, which are not what one considers they should be, and we have also talked about the returns of the benefits themselves. I am therefore critical, because I do not think that the response that the country and the vulnerability situations need is going to be given, having worked at parliamentary level to make amendments through which the final objective that this benefit actually has could prove to be far more effective. Citizens are always in favour of social measures, of improving the promotion of vulnerable groups, of advancing on an equal footing, but moving forward usefully, effectively and realistically, because I believe that part of the Government has been forgotten what realism is about the situations of vulnerability faced by people who must be recipients of minimum living income. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. More than a year and a half after it was passed by decree, the process of legislative processing is being completed with the debate and approval of the Senate amendments on minimum living income, amendments that do not seem significant to us, and we could abstain, except one, which affects the third additional provision, in its first point, which we believe to be negative, so we will vote against. We are clear that it is the social services of the councils that best know the situation of people at risk of exclusion or with other problems that lie within their sphere, hence the possibility of agreeing between the INSS and the local entities for the initiation of the process, even for the pre-resolution processing, but to this end the text established the financing of this management from a specific state fund and, however, it is now eliminated and it is established that they should be financed from the current revenues of the municipalities. In any case, these eighteen months were used to identify the deficits of the model implemented by the Government, with just over one third of the planned households benefiting, and also with one third of the planned unspent resources. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the parties that support the Government, in a situation of growing economic difficulties, which particularly affect the most vulnerable sectors of society, those who are excluded or at risk of exclusion, is not acceptable and should make a critical assessment of the functioning of minimum living income in order to produce profound changes that facilitate its management and favour it to meet its objectives. [[The lady]] In this regard, I would like to recall the proposal put on the table from the outset by the BNG to guarantee minimum incomes for the entire population to enable them to live with dignity, on the basis that the best way to do this is to ensure stable employment and a fair wage. That is why we have proposed to move towards a wage of labour and social inclusion, and this, as conceived, is clearly important, because the main objective must be precisely the incorporation of all people, in a position to do so and with the will to do so, into the world of work. We also go on to say that the ideal horizon would be for this integration wage to be equal to the inter-professional minimum wage, which in turn is progressively 60% of the average wage. From this perspective, it is clear that the minimum vital income that you set in motion, being positive, was short in its conception and also in its amount, although, unfortunately, as we said, it did not even get all used. I would like to recall that, despite the differences expressed, the BNG in its day supported the implementation of the minimum living income. Today we cannot support these Senate amendments. But, above all, we reiterate the call to review and improve the whole mechanism, because we believe that it is necessary if we really want to make progress in social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the process of assessing the amendments that come from the Senate of that law that came out of here, from Congress, on minimum living income. And in this area, I have to put them in context, in the sense that in the Commission which passed the draft law on minimum living income in order for it to take the course towards the Senate, some amendments tabled by the PeCAT were incorporated, some very technical amendments, which had the consensus and the majority sufficient to be able to be incorporated into the text of the law. Well, now that text that came out of Congress with those incorporations comes from the Senate with amendments from the Socialist Group that precisely what they are trying to do is to dismantle those achievements that were achieved in the Congressional Committee of Deputies, and that is why we are not going to support the incorporation of Senate amendments into the text of the law. And I am going to refer exactly to some of them so that they can see the scope of the content of what is being raised. Firstly, the question of the participation of the beneficiary of minimum living income in the actions on improving employability and active job search is eliminated. We believed that apart from this subsidy, a network of support, social inclusion, employment and improvement for the persons benefiting from this benefit should also be created, which means training, work guidance and support measures in the active search for employment through active employment policies. We also had already incorporated - and this is going to fall thanks to the Socialist Party's amendments - contributions to protected heritage. In other words, for those families with a disabled person, on which it is estimated that the annual cost overrun is about EUR 24,000 per year or even EUR 47,000 per person with large support needs, we understand that the contributions to the protected heritage and to the articulated system around the protected heritage were a good system to compensate those families for the cost overruns they had, so we wanted those contributions to the protected heritage among the income not to be taken into account in the minimum living income, because the protected heritage of persons with disabilities was configured precisely to alleviate the cost overrun they had in their support needs. Finally, another of the issues that are expected to fall as a result of these amendments is those relating to those self-employed who were directors of companies, those self-employed companies - it should be remembered that there are more than 1,300,000 - that were excluded from the minimum living income by the mere fact that they were still costing as administrators of law in some deed in the Commercial Register. Therefore, we provide that scenario in which that person who saw that his business had had to close - especially in the pandemic scenario - surely had not yet given him time to make all the papers, all the documentation and all the closure of that company, and it could be that he would still appear as a self-employed company without having any revenue and having the activity closed. Therefore, in these cases where there was no activity, we believed that it was necessary that, if the non-activity is credited, the mere fact of registering as an administrator was not limiting and was not an impediment that excluded it from the minimum vital income. Well, these amendments that come from the Senate are going to disassemble all these achievements that were achieved in the Congressional Commission. For that reason, we understand that we cannot support the incorporation of Senate amendments into the text of the law that came out of Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Denial]] We move on to the next parliamentary group. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 May 2020, the Council of Ministers agreed on the creation of a new right to care for the people of our country in poverty, the minimum living income. The Ministries of Inclusion and Social Rights have worked intensively there, and they acted quickly by demonstrating our Government's great capacity to respond to the pandemic we were suffering. But this right comes to face one of our country's biggest problems, a decades-long structural situation in which inequality and poverty have continued to increase. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of those days when Congress, the seat of popular representation, bears its name. Today we do our duty. I hope this will be the normality of this House again. Today we definitively approve the minimum living income, a new right, as I said, whose sole objective is to protect those who have been turned away by the economy. Inequality, ladies and gentlemen, has not stopped increasing in decades and, above all, accelerated in the early 1980s, with the entry into power of Reagan in the United States and Thatcher in the United Kingdom, ultra-liberal governments that followed the myths of liberalism and that began a voracious policy of tax cuts, which reached figures of up to 40 points in the case of the incomes of the richest; all this with the liberal theory that tax cuts cause greater economic growth. But the data shows us that this theory is false, because otherwise, what we have found since that date is that it has not stopped increasing inequality, as the study of David Hope and Julian Limberg states; the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer. The People's Party asks us to learn from the experiences of the autonomous communities where they govern. Well, today I will explain to you what they do in Andalusia Moreno Bonilla, of the People's Party, and Juan Marín, of Citizens, following precisely this failed policy. The biggest success of the People's Party of Andalusia is the tax reduction to 5% of the population with incomes above 80,000 euros a year, i.e. the highest incomes. Meanwhile, the management of minimum incomes from which the People's Party asks us to learn we see them very well, as I say, in my land, in Andalusia, with the management of Moreno Bonilla. The minimum income of social inclusion in Andalusia was born in 2018 with a clearly insufficient budget and the People's Party, since then, has only imposed absolutely aggressive cuts of up to 60%, 20 million less in 2021, and projected for the budgets of 2022 - which finally failed - another cut of 35 million euros. In Andalusia, where we have one of the highest rates of inequality and poverty throughout the European Union, the government of Moreno Bonilla has robbed the Andalusians who are worst passing it up to 55 million euros from the minimum income to give it to the richest. In addition, one of the first decisions taken by the Andalusian Government when the vital minimum income was approved was to send a letter to the Andalusian municipalities asking them to paralyse the Andalusian minimum income procedures. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the policy of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. I should embarrass them. [[Rumors]] In the amendments that have been passed in the Senate, what is basically done is to reduce barriers to better and better access for the population - which, as I say, is worse - with higher rates of inequality and poverty so that there is greater access to minimum living income. In addition, we in Congress approved certain improvements which also entail greater access to this new right: a supplement equivalent to 22% of the amount of living units with a person with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 65%; elimination of the damned expression of incapacitated judicially, as recommended by the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; also increased income and wealth underage so that more people can access this right; there is greater protection for single-maritime families; furthermore, those who exhaust the unemployment benefit - and this is extremely important - will also have a platform that gives them direct access to the minimum living income if they meet the requirements of this law; the requirement of independent living unit is reduced to two years for persons over thirty years of age, thus avoiding the rejection of many of the applications, and excludes from this requirement those who have the most to protect, who are neither more nor less than victims of gender violence, victims of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, those who are without divorce and those who are in the process of separation. In addition, a new child protection benefit has been created which is greater than the current family benefit and which is therefore extended for families with children aged 0 to 3 years, so that they can receive a benefit of a fixed amount of EUR 100... [[Rumors]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u77	As I said, for families with children from 0 to 3 years old, so that they can receive a fixed amount of EUR 100; for families with children from 3 to 6 years old, so that they can receive an amount of EUR 70, and for families with children from 6 to 18 years old, so that they can receive a fixed amount of EUR 30. This Government, ladies and gentlemen, is working in the right direction. This Government - and it is demonstrating this - has its heart and centre of its work in protecting the population, especially the most vulnerable population. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations, congratulations, because today we are increasing rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are not going to support the amendments that come from the Senate because, as has been said, the text of this law is even worse. Minimum vital income yes, but not so, ladies and gentlemen; not so. [[Applauds]] This law is the rubric of a failure, the culmination of how the left and the consensus of those who say they are not around imported agendas prefer to manage misery to create wealth, of a model that idolizes the state as a great amateur of consolations, as the father of all false goodness, who disputes without rest his hegemony and considers social spending disproportionate as progress and not the result of the frustration of an unarmed society, in permanent struggle against another vision of understanding the social order: that of the individual as the center of the universe, without transcendence or fullness, whose virtues are mercantilized by dispossessing of his integrity as a person, like that Rebellion of Atlas, of Ayn Rand. Among these two models there is another more sensible, more pulsary, more humane, more just: one whose political action must have as its ultimate reason the common good and be inspired by respect for human dignity and the rights inherent in them as a person. This law is a failure of a failed State that resorts to the plundering of its subjects for its own subsistence - never better said - where it first steals from them what they have achieved with their efforts to distribute gifts for the survival of the landscape. We have repeated this on numerous occasions: of course the State - and, look, I say the State - must be attentive, vigilant and responsible for the needs of the weakest, of the pariahs who do not sing the International because they have no strength even to take a step worthy of reward. Of course I do. In this is VOX, in the firm belief of the State's subsidiarity towards those most in need. But we didn't usurp their dignity. To do this, we must create opportunities for work, shelter ourselves naturally, return to the person, beyond the collective of the State, recover the first, primary and essential sense of the family, reward the effort, promote work, facilitate the creation, activity and expansion of enterprises. In short, an open, free, dynamic, optimistic society that creates effective solidarity and not patches resulting from bleeding cages. And all this with 14.6% unemployment in Spain and, as has also been said by another Member, at the point of the coming competition collapse. Minimum vital income yes, but not like that. We have already been warned by Minister Escrivá, who had great difficulty in arming this law, a great difficulty, and this was recognized in the Labour Commission. I am going to focus on three aspects - for these three alone - which prevent us from voting in favour. The Member of Parliament for Citizens, Mrs Jiménez, spoke of the fact that if you are young from eighteen to twenty-three years of age you do not have the right to minimum living income. It's an age requirement. But there is an exception - we know it, right? - in the same article, the exception says, textually: The fulfilment of this age requirement will not be required for persons between eighteen and twenty-two years who come from residential centres for the protection of minors in the different autonomous communities. Thus, young Spaniards between the ages of eighteen and twenty-three are not entitled to minimum living income and the menas, which come irregularly to Spain, are entitled to minimum living income. [[Protests.-Mr Serrano Martínez: It's not true, it's not true!-Applause]] This is an objective data; it is an objective data. Read the rule, read article 4. [[Applauds]] Leanla, leanla, you'll read it well. Minimum vital income yes, but not like that. Read it, read it, read it. There is another requirement of access, that of legal residence, article 10. You know him perfectly well. And what's the exception? What's the exception? The exception to this requirement is persons aged between eighteen and twenty-two years who come from residential centres for the protection of minors in the different autonomous communities; the same call for illegal immigration fully identified in the two requirements. [[Applauds]] And on the obligation to be registered as an applicant for employment, as it appeared in former Article 7 - yes, in Article 7 - it no longer appears in that Article and it is a requirement that is made a posteriori, once the minimum vital income has been granted. Read the law, read the law. In short, we asked for the criterion of nationality and we have not been listened to, because the Spaniards are left behind in this law. We called for the denial of access to all those who had entered Spain irregularly and had not been listened to. We also called for this vital minimum income to be denied to those who refused without justifying a job, and we were also not given notice, with 14.6% unemployment. It is absolutely ridiculous and that is why we say that minimum income vital yes, but not so, in a complicated, sought-after norm. [[applause]] One reads article 1255 of the Civil Code, of autonomy of the will, and sees in one article how the functioning of contracts, of the wills, of the causes is articulated, while the minimum income vital is complex, with forty-one articles, ten additional provisions and eight transitional provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not solve the issue. Minimum vital income does not solve the issue. It's Christmas. Do you remember long ago that at Christmas there were people with baskets and lots on the streets? Do you remember? Do you remember the lights, the lovers and the families? As a young man, one came home, opened the lot and made the young man, the family, excited, and argued among friends and said, "Look what a lot! There was a sacrifice on the part of the family. Until there was a taxable fact, that of the liberality of the company and that of the greater income in kind for the worker. And you know what was behind that lot? There was no...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u80	Mr. Aizcorbe, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u81	Finished. Behind that lot, what was behind each of those lots was a job. That's what the Spaniards need: jobs and no gifts. Merry Christmas. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Thank you!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u82	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking about minimum living income, a measure which the People's Group supported in order to serve a dual objective: to care for people in poverty and, at the same time, to provide them with tools for their social and labour inclusion, because employment is what gives us opportunities and makes us more free and independent. It was the People's Party that approved the first minimum income in the autonomous communities and commissioned the AIReF to study the approval of a national benefit. However, and despite having these bases, the government has turned the IMV into a major failure, which is not fulfilling the end for which it was born, leaving millions of Spaniards behind. We have already humbly warned Mr. Escrivá that his approval overrun, disregarding the experience of autonomous communities and municipalities, without dialogue, would have harmful consequences for their implementation that would end up paying the most vulnerable. That is why we call for the processing of the bill, in order to contribute to its improvement. The constructive spirit of the PP has also been scorned and year and a half later the balance is negative. Compared to the 2,300,000 promised beneficiaries, they barely receive a third. Those who, after months of waiting, receive it, find what some already call a macabre joke: 10 or 20 euros. Persons affected by the COVID crisis, a cause given to accelerate the norm, have not received it. Of the 3 billion budgeted, only half have been executed. And worst of all: not only are you not reducing poverty, but it has grown to the point that today 6 million Spaniards are in severe poverty and you answer them by denying three out of four applications. Not only have they failed to meet their own goal, but it is already obsolete by the new poverty that their policies are generating. And in the face of a failure that everyone blames, modifies, rectifys, modifies the rectified, creating a legal gallimacy that has led to a collapse of Social Security and great difficulties in requesting it from the most vulnerable. [[Rumors]] Because instead of...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u84	Mrs. Angulo, forgive me for interrupting you. Let's see if we can get some silence so he can continue his intervention. [[Pause]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u85	Thank you, President. Because instead of an accessible and agile processing, as we propose in our amendments, they create a cumbersome and telematic procedure that prevents access to the IMV to those who need it most, creating a new form of exclusion. These are the documents that need to be deployed to apply for the minimum living income Don't you think this is exclusionary? [[unfolds and hangs from the rostrum a strip of glued leaves]] [[Applauds]] Thus, Caritas states that 92% of people in severe poverty have not received it. Now, although they despised their experience, they derive many procedures from the social services of autonomous communities and municipalities, but, as this anti-municipalist government always does, without funding to strengthen the necessary means. And here I stop. The 8100 Spanish municipalities must know that this law returns to Congress because the Socialist Party eliminates by amendment the approval of a fund intended for municipalities that sign agreements to collaborate with the IMV, which the People's Party managed to incorporate into the Commission, here in the Congress, which also vetoed us through the budgets and which we did in accordance with the unanimous request of the FEMP, to which now, if this amendment comes out, the President of the FEMP Socialist will have to give many explanations how it will have to be given to its mayors who support this amendment, especially those groups that now change their minds by adding - we do not know in exchange for what - to this abandonment to the municipalities. [[applause]] Nor do they meet the objective of making IMV a means of employment inclusion. They have not approved inclusion strategies or offered vocational training or retraining routes, thus depriving those who have more difficulty in accessing the labour market of the opportunity for their employment and of developing a decent and independent life project, which should be the main purpose of this benefit and not perpetuate poverty. They rejected our amendments aimed at improving the conditions of certain people: disabled people, self-employed people at risk of exclusion, those who expressly exclude, returning Spanish emigrants or large families, the great forgotten of this government, and vulnerable families, who have taken away the family benefit, leaving them without anything these two years of serious crisis. A social cut that, thanks to the pressure also received from the People's Party, now want to rectify with the approval of a supplement that we support, but that does not justify the suppression of any family aid and that has also become a new battle between the partners of government, as happened with the IMV itself. We hope that they will not turn this into another major failure. And, precisely in order for public money to reach those who need it most, we proposed reasonable obligations for the beneficiaries, such as participation in the search for employment or prohibiting an illegally occupied house from being considered a domicile for the purpose of requesting minimum living income, and they also objected. If this were not enough, they broke the condition of providing social security of a national character, exclusive competence of the State, establishing differences between some communities and others, with arguments that neither legally nor constitutionally justify such discrimination between Spaniards, as they had nothing to do with the forality of the haciendas or with the quota What it meant was the rupture of the unity of the social security system, the flagship of our country. [[applause]] The lack of dialogue, its incompetence and the roll with these amendments have turned the IMV into a failure, which is also creating difficulties for those who already received other incomes. In short, one more example of Sánchez's ability to turn into a failure something that had already been successful for decades, of his inability to give effective solutions to citizens' problems, of Sánchez' willingness to use any resources, although with this he breaks the equality of the Spaniards, as a currency of exchange to remain in power. And while poverty continues to grow in Spain, as always, always, always, always happens when the Socialist Party governs. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago Minister Escrivá appeared to make known the general outlines of his department and pointed out that this government placed the fight against poverty as a cross-cutting lever policy to reverse the situations of poverty and unprotected living in certain groups in this country. We were telling them that this Government was not going to abandon them and that it was going to work for their inclusion, and then we remembered how the UN rapporteur, Mr Alston, pointed out that poverty was a political decision, to which I add that the lack of political decisions by the right-wing governments made structural poverty a social anomaly in this country. Well, this Government has shown that its political decision is to eradicate it, and this has been demonstrated when the Royal Decree-Law of 29 May 2020 on minimum living income was passed in just three months of that appearance. From that time until today, this benefit has been subject to continuous evaluation. First, in order to achieve its main objective, which is to facilitate transit from a certain risk of exclusion to full social participation through a guarantee of income as a right of citizenship. Secondly, because it was also launched in the middle of the COVID pandemic, which required constant attention to avoid further situations of unprotective behaviour. I take this opportunity to thank all the officials who, at such difficult times, locked up in their homes, made it possible for this benefit to begin to reach thousands of households and beneficiaries. [[Applauds]] Today these beneficiaries are more than 822,000, of which 305,000 are minors; we have reached 360 000 households, 55% of them with boys and girls. All poverty has women's and minors' faces. Well, today 450,000 women are less poor and 305,000 boys and girls have more guarantees of inclusion. 66.5 per cent of the incumbents are women, which shows that when the incumbent is a female, they reach younger, but also more adults. It is a benefit that talks about social structure, the distribution of gender roles, those who deal with minors and also those over the age of eighteen; it points out that precariousness has a woman's face and, by the way, also speaks to us about child poverty. That is where this policy affects, in combating the risk of exclusion that women and their sons and daughters are primarily concerned with. As noted in the Nobel Prize in Economics Joseph Stiglitz, injustices are not corrected, they are inherited. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this continuous evaluation we have expanded the coverage of minimum living income, with a complement to child support for the most vulnerable families, but which will also reach other low-income families. It is extended to young people who are extolled - foreign and also Spanish, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - and to 18-year-olds who are orphaned. [[Rumors]] 22% is recognised for families with single-parent households and also for families where one of their members has a disability equal to or greater than 65%. Coverage for those situations of poverty has been expanded and the period of age of the cohabitation unit has been reduced from twelve to six months and the period of independent life for young people under thirty years of age from three to two years. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a benefit not to leave anyone behind, which makes our democracy bigger, which complements our welfare state and makes us move forward as a society, because fighting inequality makes us better and stronger. [[Applauds]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to acknowledge the determination and commitment of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, to push forward a project conceived in 2015, when the Socialist Party was in opposition, when talking about child poverty in this rostrum provokes the mockery of the right-wing bench and when Montoro denied the poverty figures that Caritas gave. Thank you, President Sánchez, for maintaining during these seven years the conviction that Spain needed to strengthen and modernize the system of protection of the most vulnerable, especially minors. It is a commitment for which socialists will always be grateful, as we are grateful to Felipe González for the General Health Law or to Zapatero for the progress in legislation on historical memory, LGBT rights or attention to dependence. [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration and the ministries involved in this vital minimum income, especially the General Secretariat for Objectives and Policies of Inclusion and Social Security; the Secretary General for Objectives and Policies of Inclusion and Social Security, Ms Milagros Paniagua, her entire team and, in particular, the adviser Mrs Elena Rodríguez; the political groups that from the beginning have contributed with their contributions to improving the draft law, in a very special way, to the United Podemos, Isabel Franco and Pilar Garrido; the NGOs and entities of the third sector, which opened our eyes and were our hands in the hardest moments of the pandemic, and of course my colleagues, also rapporteurs of this law, Elvira Ramón and Pau Marí, without forgetting our parliamentary adviser Encarna Orozco. It's over, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very proud because today we are a better country. We are facing a historic breakthrough in a land where, unfortunately, very little had been done. The redistribution of income has an impact on the creation of a country's wealth, but above all it contributes to the certainty of living in a more dignified country that is committed to social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Baños. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We are voting, first of all, on motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Government's policy on the transport of goods by road. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 147 against, 180 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u92	It's rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the teaching of Castilian throughout the national territory. [[File number 173/000113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u93	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the teaching of Spanish throughout the national territory. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 147 against, 181 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u94	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u95	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law on the Management and Integration of Vocational Training. Amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 12 against, 311 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u96	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. Amendment 173. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 28 against, 295 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u97	It's rejected. Amendment 174. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 16 against, 308 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u98	It's rejected. Amendment 175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 15 against, 297 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u99	It's rejected. Amendment 175. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 15 against, 299 abstentions, 16. 1
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u100	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 20 against, 307 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u101	It's rejected. Amendment 120. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 106 against, 219 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u102	It's rejected. Amendment 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 15 against, 300 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u103	It's rejected. Amendment 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] 1 Repeated vote by mistake. The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 65 against, 251 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u104	It's rejected. Amendment 129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 67 against 249; abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u105	It's rejected. Amendment 142. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 75 against, 239 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u106	It's rejected. Amendments 143 and 146. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 73 against, 256 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u107	They're rejected. Amendment 412. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330; 129; 197; 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u108	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 26 against, 297 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u109	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 97 against, 179 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u110	It's rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 59 against, 270 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u111	It's rejected. Amendment 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 13 against, 301 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u112	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. Amendments 376-379. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 15 against, 307 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u113	They're rejected. Amendments 389 and 400. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 4 against, 310 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u114	They're rejected. Amendment 395. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 94 against, 220 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u115	It's rejected. Amendment 409. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 104 against, 211 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u116	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 4 against, 320 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u117	They're rejected. Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. Amendment 455. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 184 against 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u118	It's approved. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal. Amendment 425. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 25 against, 299 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u119	It's rejected. Amendment 427. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 5 against, 298 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u120	It's rejected. Amendment 430. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 40 against, 274 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u121	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 2 against, 319 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u122	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. Amendment 215. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 67 against, 249 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u123	It's rejected. Amendment 222. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 103 against, 220 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u124	It's rejected. Amendments 223 and 224. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 154 against, 165 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u125	They're rejected. Amendment 235. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 160 against, 165 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u126	It's rejected. Amendment 252. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 160 against 170.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u127	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Illamola Dausà. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 94 against, 184 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u128	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Amendments 74, 75 and 81. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 53 against, 262 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u129	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 24 against, 300 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u130	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendments 482 to 484, 486, 493, 499, 502, 504, 512, 514 to 516, 519, 523, 525, 530, 534 to 536, 538, 540, 544 to 546, 548, 549 and 551. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 50 against, 271 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u131	They're rejected. Amendments 485, 495, 500, 501, 520, 527, 533, 543 and 547. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 58 against, 183 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u132	They're rejected. The rest of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 138 against 192.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u133	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. Amendments 293 to 295, 297, 301 to 304, 306, 326, 332, 356, 357 and 368. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 98 against, 183 abstentions, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u134	They're rejected. Amendments 300, 307, 315, 318, 325, 333, 338, 341, 351 and 354. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 99 against 231.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u135	They're rejected. Amendments 319 and 363. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 119 against, 158 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u136	They're rejected. Amendments 347, 360-362 and 365. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 157 against, 158 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u137	They're rejected. Rest of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 147 against 183.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u138	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 171 against, 88 abstentions, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u139	The opinion was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u140	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 171 plus 9 telematics votes, 180; against 87 plus 1 telematics vote, 88; abstentions, 72 plus 3 telematics votes, 75.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u141	Accordingly, the draft organic law was adopted. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government, on their feet, addressed to the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Alegría Continente]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u142	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 27/2021 of 23 November, extending certain economic measures to support recovery. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 342 in favour, 276 in favour, 11 in favour, 287 in favour, 53 in favour, 2 in favour, 55 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u143	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 13 telematics votes, 343; 146 plus 3 telematics votes, 149; 183 plus 10 telematics votes, 193; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u144	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u145	Senate amendments. Draft law establishing minimum living income from Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 of 29 May. Block vote on amendments to the bill establishing minimum living income from Royal Decree-Law 20/2020 of 29 May. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 169 against 98; abstentions 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-16-CD211216.u146	Accordingly, they were adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was one and five minutes in the afternoon.
