ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000046 and 110/000047. Do any groups want to intervene? [[Consent]] As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u2	Thank you, President. Very good morning. If anything teaches us this pandemic is that no one is saved alone and that international cooperation is the only way we have not to fall into the wild capitalism that has brought us here. In 1944, economist John Mayanard Keynes imagined that the International Monetary Fund could be one of those instruments that would prevent catastrophes such as the 1929 crack or World War II. Unfortunately, in the last century the International Monetary Fund has acted as a sort of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, who knew in his head that the regulation of financial markets was a guarantee of stability, but that in practice it was dedicated to promoting loans conditioned on social cuts, privatizations, neoliberal recipes that sank the economy in many countries. However, today in the midst of the pandemic, the International Monetary Fund is launching messages that, in my opinion, are much more realistic than those of all the right-wings in this Chamber, and is warning us that, indeed, if financial markets are not regulated, if speculative markets are not controlled, what we are going to have is an unusual increase in inequalities, with major social protests, with great tensions of consequences that are incalculable. And in the face of that we think that the answer cannot be that of the tropism and its far right corifes. The cry of 'under international cooperation', 'under the World Health Organization', 'under the United Nations' cannot be cast. On the contrary, we believe that we are faced with an opportunity to renew these international bodies, including the International Monetary Fund, so that they can be that cooperation instrument with which John Maynard Keynes dreamed in the context of the Bretton Woods Agreements in 1944. But we are fully aware that this is not going to happen if the governance of the International Monetary Fund depends on a single power, we have already learned it from Trump. It is therefore essential to engage in multilateral governance that will allow the policies of the International Monetary Fund to be reoriented, that is what Germany is proposing, that is what France, China or Japan are proposing; and that is where it must be. We cannot be dragged away by a new neoliberal abnormality that leads us to new wars, more poverty and environmental devastation, because perhaps this is the last chance we will have to shape a more just, more effective international order that will allow peace between peoples and all the species on the planet. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party wishes to highlight the role that the International Monetary Fund has so far been developing as an agency that gives stability, gives confidence and in some way allows the Member States to be imbued with the necessary funds. It is therefore not an anti-system piece within the model of international financing but quite the contrary; it is a necessary and indisputable piece for developed States such as Spain to be able to carry out their activities. We therefore obviously support any such operation and we do so in this House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Casaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u6	Thank you, President. By conviction and responsibility, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the opinion of Spain's bilateral loan agreement to the International Monetary Fund because it is an agreement that reaffirms Spain's commitment to effective and progressive multilateralism, which, on the other hand, is essential to meet the present and future needs of a global citizenship that demands social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the isolating and short-term speeches that we have been listening to, the reality that we are living has put on the table the indisputable fact that we are a global community. This interdependence makes it possible to provide solutions, identify shared needs, and calls on us to act as an international community so that the fragility of the health systems of many countries in the world does not lead to a collapse in their services that perpetuates the crisis over time. Therefore, the agreement we are discussing is part of Spain's commitment to both multilateral institutions and to the exceptional circumstances generated by the global crisis situation that we are experiencing, making available a loan that the fund will have many more resources to be able to assist the most vulnerable, impoverished or emerging countries, in response to the exceptional needs caused by the pandemic. The pandemic leaves us with a clear lesson and is that we will not be able to overcome the crisis if it is not cooperating. We won't get out of it if we don't all do it together, leaving no one behind. And my group is convinced that it contributes to the construction of a more just and sustainable world. It is one of the best letters of introduction for a country that is established as a guarantor of human rights and universal solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you voted not at this point in the Commission and deny the reality in which we live. You deny everything; you deny your negationism, you deny gender-based violence, you deny climate change and also the interdependence of our world, even though today no one doubts that we will not defeat the pandemic while there is only one place in the world plagued by the crisis. We know that you do not understand solidarity very well, but I would ask you to reconsider and, even if it is only by selfishness, to make an effort of understanding because, ladies and gentlemen, well-understood politics obliges us to recognize our reality in order to be able to provide solutions to the real needs of citizens. If not, we will not be doing the exercise that the Spanish and Spanish require us to give us their confidence. For a time Spanish cooperation was a world leader and this government is determined to re-place it at the heart of Spanish foreign action. And I want to end with an invitation to the reflection of philosopher John Sellars: We were born to cooperate or to be disgraced. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u8	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the entire bill approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, coming from Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor to defend the amendment tabled by Mr Bal Francés. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. My parliamentary group, Citizens, has been the only one who has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 for the allocation of European funds. It is an amendment that seeks to ensure that European funds, up to EUR 140 billion, are invested head-on, are rationally invested, are invested in Spain by purely technical criteria that assess the needs of our country and prioritize the investments we need in Spain. For what purpose? To carry out those reforms that our country has needed for more than 40 years, which are always urgent and which are always pending. We now have the opportunity to take them forward, we have the opportunity to get out of this crisis with a better country, we can make this country a better place through the proper implementation of these funds. But what is the system that collects Royal Decree-Law 36/2020? What does the government want? How do you want to apply these funds? What he is trying to do is to decide only by the Council of Ministers, to impose only the political criterion - i.e. the political criterion - to distribute the money on hoses. What's the point of this? Make this country a better country? No; to remain in power at all costs, by agreeing with those who need to agree, as we have been shown since the beginning of the legislature. Spain matters less, what you need to hold on to in power, only. That's why we have the rational suspicion that it's going to be spent without control. This, gentlemen of VOX, is what you have allowed with your abstention. Don't say they're very patriotic, no; they've given the money to Ivan Redondo so he can spend it as he pleases with his lobbies, with his lobbyists, with his friends. However, look, in Italy to distribute these funds, who do they put? A former President of the European Central Bank, a person who has the expertise to know how European funds are handled. [[Applauds]] What's this gonna end in? For this will end in the unfortunate Plan E of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero; this will end in inefficiency in the allocation of public resources, in investments that are not effective and that are a disaster and - what hurts me most personally - in corruption; yes, in corruption, because, in the end, when this money is not used for the personal benefit itself, as the PSOE of the ERE has accustomed us, it is used to set up chiringuitos, to weave customer networks, to benefit certain circles of interest. We have already seen it, and I am sure that if we do not approve this alternative text amendment, we will see it again. As a state lawyer, head of the penal department, I spent several years after Plan E - which was a plan B - precisely pursuing corruption of subsidy frauds. But it is even worse because the European Parliament has adopted the regulation on funds, which states that they must be linked to projects aimed at digitisation and the green transition, that promote the transformation of the productive model, that they generate added value and that they are in line with the objectives set by the European Semester. And, if not, the Commission can stop the flow of funds for the following years. In addition, we find the frugal countries - Holland, Ireland - who want to pull out of the emergency brake to withdraw the aid. We're just playing it, we're playing it. And they are irresponsible in the Government of Spain for not establishing a European model of management and leaving everything to the dawn, to the discretion - which is going to become arbitrary - of political power, only to get medals. Mr Sánchez, the President of the Government, yesterday in this rostrum said: It is that, as public funds, they are of the Public Administration. No, they are from the Spanish; they are not funds from Sánchez, they are not funds from Iglesias, they are not funds from Redondo; they are funds from the Spanish. [[Applauds]] The Administration has to make them reach the Spaniards in an agile and with guarantees. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u10	Excuse me in a moment, Mr. Bal. A little silence, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u11	Thank you, President. I speak louder, if anything. In any case, it is curious that this royal decree-law says that what it claims is agility and efficiency. Agility what does it mean for this royal decree-law? It means lack of transparency. And what does efficiency mean? It means lack of accountability and lack of guarantees. As I say to you, the alignment of investments with the recommendations of the European Semester is not guaranteed, and this can be the subject of the Commission's eardropping. Investments are over-politicized. What are we going to fall into? Look, we're going to fall into what we've already seen: inefficient public policies that serve as political propaganda, on roads without cars, in justice cities without judges without ending, in airport without planes, in pharaonic works that only serve as political propaganda of the one who seeks only his five minutes of television, just to go out on the television to put on a medal. How sad that the Spanish Government wants European funds to buy the metal with which the medals are made so that the ministers can go out boasting on television! It reminds me a lot of the NO-DO and the swamp opening. [[Applauds]] What do we want? We want to listen to civil society. I have bothered to talk to entities involved in the distribution of European funds. And what do you say? They tell me that we are a disaster, that we are already a disaster, that we are the second worst country in Europe to implement the European funds of the previous six-year period, of which we have only implemented 34%. They also tell me that it is impossible for ministries to have capacity. They tell me that they are disoriented because the Government first said that it was going to make a single window and now assigns it to the execution of each of the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, in France you already have a unique website that is transporting all the projects that are already arriving; however, here we are - they say in the ministries - with duplicate projects, with tripled projects, with projects that were abandoned many years ago because they were completely unworkable and that are now being presented to European funds. And Brussels tells us: And I don't get a part! Anyway, they're going to have to make you look because, of course, if with this royal decree-law you understand that this is going to be effective... what is this going to be? This is going to be what I've told you before, about the lobbies. I am going to refer to a news from El Independiente, of 25 November, which says that there is a lobby, any one, that offers consultancy and advice services to companies to obtain European funds and it seems that, as an added value, one of the things that points out is the contact that people in this lobby have with members of the government. Do you know who's in this lobby called Accent? Look, there's Pepe Blanco, there's ElenaValenciano, there's Antonio Hernando and oh, surprise, surprise!, Alfonso Alonso of the People's Party, former People's Party. That is to say, for general State budgets, to save lives and save jobs do not agree, but for pasta and armchairs, how easy it is to agree, how easy it is to agree! [[Applauds]] Then you create a committee of experts who are not independent experts because they are people of the ministries. They have twenty bureaucrats from the ministries, with the preponderance of the Ministry of Finance and, see that one reads the twenty experts and wonders: and why is there no one from Health? Is it not going to invest in health with European funds or perhaps it is that health right now does not matter? It's absolutely amazing. And, ladies and gentlemen, the superautonomous projects that must be launched to unite various autonomous communities, with whom will they agree, with Bildu, with PNV, with Republican Squerra or with the Galego Nationalist Block? And have you forgotten the opinion of the Council of State that we have asked you to present it to us? What's going on here, they're going to declare it a secret because it violates national security? But what does that opinion of the Council of State say? Yesterday the President of the Government made us a promise of 11 billion. Where are you going to get them, from here too, from the European funds? With the word transparency, you do not tell the Spaniards anything!With our amendment, what we want is precisely transparency and rationality. That is why we want an independent agency that is guided by technical criteria, that is transparent, efficient, balanced, that is depoliticised, that has the capacity to implement the budget. Look, in the State's regular budgets, the science budget, which is already very small, has only been implemented by 50%. We're a disaster executing the budget and we're going to be. For this independent agency will be formed by an executive committee representing the ministries of Finance and Economy, four regulatory bodies and fourteen persons elected from among experts of civil society, among which will have to elect its president. You civil society don't even want to see it. They do well the criterion of illustrated despotism: All for the people, but without the people. This is the independent agency that can precisely make it possible for this executive committee to co-honest or unite the interests of civil society with those of the political power, with the executive power, with the legislative power, with the autonomous communities and with the local corporations. Precisely, the nationalist groups voted against this royal decree-law because you are centralists; that is, because you do not want to give the autonomous communities even a role in this distribution of funds. We do, look at what a paradox!While you go as federalists and, however, do not accommodate the autonomous communities; we expect it to be done through sectoral conferences, where the autonomous communities will be able to give their opinion on the correct investment of the funds. Do you know what this system is called that unites civil society, the executive branch, the legislative branch, the autonomous communities and local corporations? It's called co-governance, but really, not the word you've invented that sounds absolutely hollow. These are the principles and also the guarantees with the role that this agency plays in informing investment criteria; with the role that this agency plays in transparency and publicity; with the role that intervention plays in controlling the application of these funds and also because it has to issue mandatory reports, which can be ignored by the Council of Ministers, but always in a motivated way; in addition, an opening of the Pertea to private sector entities and a repeal of the flight from administrative law through mixed-economy companies, which seek nothing more than to circumvent controls. We've done our homework. Yesterday Inés Arrimadas from this rostrum offered them four state pacts: that of health, that of direct aid, that of European funds and that of science. Do your homework. We're serious people. Today we have come here to offer you that state pact for the management of European funds, so be serious. They welcome this amendment here and now or during the process of the bill, but I ask you, please, not to make my country the laughing stock of Europe. Do not jeopardize the funds needed by self-employed people, entrepreneurs, workers, students, disadvantaged groups in vulnerable situations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u12	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u13	We need those funds. Don't put them in danger, please. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that these funds are curious; they have not yet arrived, but, if you look at the list of petitions that exist at this time plus the promises of the Government itself, we have already spent them three times, with which we started well. With these funds, three things could have been done: they could have been distributed proportionally according to population criteria or specific weight in the total GDP of Spain of each of the autonomous communities and that they, in turn, had made a distribution of these funds according to their needs; they could have sought an intermediate formula, such as that which they have proposed in this case Citizens with their amendment; and they could have mounted the chiringuito. And what have we done? Well, ride the chiringuito. In the end we're going to have an office in Moncloa, where there's going to be a person who's going to go to all those interested in receiving those funds and there's going to be a decision: you, not you, what you bring, what you give me in return, I don't see it, I see it. This can't be. These funds are fundamental to the future of Spain, and we are seeing how the autonomous presidents are already touring the different ministries looking for budget items, and in those ministries they are deciding yes, you are not, depending on where you come from, what support you bring me and what votes there are at every moment here in Congress because, according to what you vote, we will give you money on. That's a snitch and a show. Normally, when this amount of money comes for the next situation and with the circumstances that we have in our country, we must follow objective criteria in order to place Spain in the coming years as a European power like the others. But here we set up the little chiringuito so that once again the Socialist Party decides who has the right to money and who has no right to money. Obviously, it is much better the proposal that has been put forward by Citizens than there are at present. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u16	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u17	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. There are two ways of reacting to a crisis, the previous response of inhibiting public resources in order to try to get out of the jamming pile of people who were lying in the gutter in a very grave situation and to be condescending with those who had created the crisis, with the powerful, with the consequences we know; an extremely weak framework that in the next crisis, by the pandemic, has left us a large number of people without the possibility of having a reasonably dignified life. It now seems that the European Union has understood that these ultra-liberal policies were a failure and that is to do the opposite. It is a matter of public administrations, the public sector and governments pulling out of the economy to protect employment, defend public services and prevent their destruction. That is the answer that is being given at the moment, we will see whether with greater or worse fortune; that is what is on the table, EUR 140 billion for the Spanish State, through the European instrument of recovery, a staggering figure. For this to work, it has been necessary to establish the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. We must remember that one of the responses in the previous crisis was to obstruct the functioning of public administrations; that was less spent. It is therefore necessary to put an end to the innumerable procedures that prevent the agile and orderly functioning of public administrations when investing public resources. We believe the Losers are a wise step in that direction. We trust that this will extend to the functioning of all the public administrations of the Spanish State. It is true that the cause of the previous crisis - nor of this one - was not that the public administrations did not do their job but that someone dedicated himself to doing what was not, in this case, a virus against which it is difficult to fight, as you all know. We will support the bill, of course. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u19	Thank you, President. Not yet a month ago the Government was able to pass the royal decree by hair. Many groups demanded that the model be changed to fundamentally promote three things: transparency, decentralization and democratization; that is, that the IBEX funds not be concentrated. It was pointed out by groups of all colors, those who voted yes and those who voted no, but nothing seems to indicate that this trend will change. These funds will be used to paint IBEX green, i.e. primarily to benefit large companies. These funds will not benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, the public sector or the social and solidarity economy, which is where they should reverse because it is the sectors of the economy that will suffer or suffer the most from the crisis. Moreover, it is those who would allow precisely this transformation that is required and that is said, but nominally, yes, a transformation of more resilience and a different economy. Nor will they be to strengthen the public sector - as I said - which would be a good initiative. However, the funds are also designed - such as the Citizens' Amendment - to strengthen that formula of public-private collaboration, which, as has been pointed out, is a source of corruption and privatization of profits and socialization of losses, as at the time, for example, was the Castor, a project that was presented at the time as innovative and cutting-edge and, when it failed, we ended up paying everyone. The Citizens' amendment is of the opinion that it remains central, since in the agency that cuts cod it is the Government and not the autonomous communities, and it remains pro IBEX, that is, the largest strategic projects are prioritized, which require more funding and more risk, as explained, and that is only within the reach of these large companies, of these oligopolies, and even more so in a process of concentration or superconcentration banking like the one we are seeing. We will therefore not support the amendment. Finally, I would like to remind you that the funds are going to have counterparts, and that is what worries us even more, the cuts that can be made in pensions or in the workplace; in any of these cuts we will be faced with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u21	Thank you, President. Egun on. If for us the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 did not show great qualities or affinity with a federal structure of the State, the alternative text presented by the Citizens Group, of course, completely ignores the existence of such an organizational structure. If it seemed to us already the model of governance implanted in the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 away from the territorial distribution of power, the text of Citizens, of course, reminds us of the limitless extension that exists in political science for public organizational models; limitless and removed, of course, from our ideological reference, but also risky because it is removed even from the strictly governmental maintenance and retention of public management. It is true that everything is in line with the political spectrum of the party it represents, anti-nationalist and liberal. These premises mean, of course, the exaggerated propensity for the constitution of an independent entity that manages the Recovery and Resilience Plan. This independent agency, whose name reminds - if I may say so - of a company of mortar and brick; a agency of state luck; a figure that seems novel, but nothing further than reality; a figure that was born, yes, to guarantee autonomy and flexibility in the management of the Administration, but that was repealed by the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector for not meeting these expectations; a figure or formula, by the way, that the Government also shuffled and discarded, but that recovered and classified it, within the public institutional sector, in the Law on General Budgets of the State, in its final provision 34; apparently in a context in which it should not yet be clear what strategy to follow in terms of the planning and execution of funds; a formula that you, lordships of citizens, bring today, when the tendency has gone and goes towards the suppression and fusion of these types of entities. They plan this agency as the panacea of the recovery plan, an agency that is, per se, presumed to be independent and to guarantee efficiency and effectiveness. But the question I ask myself is, Lords of Citizens, independence from whom? The agency adopts guidelines, models, specifications, types; reports on losses in a binding manner prior to their approval by the Council of Ministers; keeps the register of entities interested in losses; sets the criteria applicable to the management of related credits; assigns it the evacuation of an endless number of reports; promotes participation forums, social dialogue forums; attends the sectoral conference; establishes management guidelines and instructions; selects and supervises projects; coordinates the different public institutions. Everything is channelled and centralized, no more or less, into this agency with functional independence and autonomy, which would be chaired by a professional expert in economic-financial matters and project management chosen by the Courts and accompanied by an executive council of twenty members; a totum revolutionum of political positions, supervisory agencies, regulators and independent members; many independent advisers who will end up, yes, planning, designing, directing and overseeing the framework and governance of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Of course, we do not question that technical capacity, as you have rightly said, but we do not think it is sufficient for projects, because it is necessary to have a technical capacity, yes, an economic capacity, but also a knowledge of the territorial reality, of the local, of the capacity that exists in the territories, of their strengths; in short, of their opportunities, of a number of other factors that you do not even mention. The remainder of the proposal presented shortly differs from the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 approved by the Council of Ministers: the same expedited measures for the processing of contracts and grants, the same intervention control measures, the same measures in relation to the collection of human resources and the same location of management in the various ministries, with the same minimal and silent, if desired, participation of the autonomous communities in the Sectoral Conference of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. That this isn't our model is notorious. We do not advocate a model in which the decision is centralized, but a multi-level governance model, therefore shared and decentralized management, and of course in line with the statement made by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, on 26 October at the Conference of Presidents, which encouraged the governments of the States to involve local and regional authorities in these recovery plans. In addition, getting involved does not mean being mere observers and assuming, but participating, engaging and engaging. If something has taught us this pandemic, it is that the crisis is asymmetrical, either by sectors or by autonomous communities or by regions if desired, and therefore its exit will also be asymmetrical. And, on the other hand, that the efficient management of the crisis and the post-COVID era passes through a model or mode of governance and local policies that is suited not only to the concrete impacts of each territory and to each context, but to the collective capacities of each territory. Just as patients with COVID need health care according to their degree of condition, economies also need a response according to their impacts, their reality and their capabilities. Therefore, from our point of view, a clear multi-level governance vocation is essential in both the design and implementation of the recovery plan as an engine towards a much more competitive, diversified, sustainable and inclusive productive model, which its alternative does not offer today. We therefore do not share his model of governance, which rests on this sort of state agency, but not on the other which rests practically exclusively on the central government. We have already explained in the debate on the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 what our model was, so, without further ado, to the Journal of Sessions I refer myself to also reject this amendment to the whole. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u23	Thank you, Madam President. It is well known that the BNG did not support this administrative reform decree, but neither do we see the amendment tabled. For us, the problem is not that political bodies make political decisions, but, in any case, the criteria with which they are adopted and applied. Therefore, in our view, nothing will resolve to create another body, in this case an independent agency, because in the end it would also have to apply the criteria and decisions previously established. If the BNG rejects this administrative reform it is for issues that the amendment does not resolve, because in that you do agree, right and left Spanish. I remember. The government justified this in the need for swift, efficient and modern action to ensure rapid management of resources. However, the marked centralizing bias that characterizes the whole process, among other negative issues, will contribute to a slower management of these funds. That is why we said that if we are looking for an agile management, what is appropriate is to change course and choose to decentralize and involve the autonomous communities and the municipalities in the management of these funds. But we also warn that the elimination of administrative procedures, controls and time-limits is clearly at risk of investment and project selection failing to meet the necessary guarantees. Of particular concern is the reduction of deadlines for monitoring and monitoring and environmental assessment of the projects submitted, and also, of course, that all this reform is aimed at ensuring that the main beneficiaries of the funds are large companies, namely IBEX 35, rather than society as a whole. None of this is changed in the amendment and we are therefore not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u24	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. I share many of the concerns expressed by Mr Bel, many, especially that there is no transparency, especially that in the end they end up in the hands of achievers, especially that they end up in the hands of IBEX 35 and eventually do not reach small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. small ones. I share it. And I also share the concern that many European funds remain unimplemented; I think that is absolutely unforgivable, but it would be much more unforgivable that right now, in the midst of the pandemic and with all this crisis, funds could remain unimplemented. We too are strong advocates, absolutely supporters, of proximity, which means more efficiency, so we understand that the role of the autonomous communities and the municipalities has to be decisive in the implementation and processing of these funds. And that's where we got to an alley. The rate of public officials in Spain is an average of 45, but there are absolutely insurmountable differences between autonomous communities. There is some autonomous community, which has the most, which has 121 officials per 10,000 inhabitants and, in the extreme case, the Valencian Community, which has 25 officials per 10,000 inhabitants. Therefore, those communities that are below the average, and end, our amendment at the end will be that they are not subject to any replacement rate so that all these public funds can be properly implemented. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u27	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bal, go ahead and I have great parliamentary respect for you and I always follow your speeches carefully, but I think you have not had a good morning today, because in your presentation you have given us at least two arguments that confirm the vote we cast yesterday afternoon on this royal decree; it is also somewhat peculiar to vote before the debate. First question. You say: Look what the Italians are doing, they have put the former President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, at the head of the allocation of funds. He has forgotten to say that Mr Draghi is currently the President of the Council of Ministers of Italy. Therefore, I do not see much difference from the actual decree. [[Applauds]] Second question. You say: The nationalist parties objected because the royal decree was centralist. The real decree of the Socialist Party and of the United Nations We can, in fact, be centralist and opposed. And he says: Instead, we citizens are the federalists, the decentralists. Mr. Bal, you argue by another way, is that it doesn't hang; it doesn't hang even between your own associates. I don't know if this speech in your party will do you much good. In any case, a more technical hue. This is not an amendment to the whole alternative text. The text is virtually identical to that put forward by the Government, except in three articles, in which they replace an independent agency - and then I will mention the adjective - by the technical committee and the commission; three articles of seventy-nine. That should have been resolved in the partial amendments that we are all going to table. As for the independent agency, I want to recall an anecdote, which is a reality. When I was studying Economics at the University of Barcelona, I had the honour of having as professor of Economic History of Spain Dr. Jordi Nadal, a person who recently left us and whom I respected very intellectually and academically. In Spain's Economic History, when we were talking about the 19th and early 20th century industrial revolution, he explained to us: When you see a company called Iberian, Hispanic or Spanish, be assured that capital is foreign. When an agency has to be called independent, be sure that it is not so independent. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u29	With your permission, Madam President. Good morning. Good morning. Citizens have tabled this amendment in its entirety to a bill, that of European funds, which, as we said loud and clear, we do not like at all. It is a bill that comes from a royal Jacobin decree, centralizing, which reserves a little more than anecdotal role to the autonomous communities; do they remember that of 'hearing the autonomous communities'? Just listen, and from afar. It is a bill that abandons SMEs, self-employed workers, which supports a model of reconstruction that sounds to us, and not without regret, more of the same, more business as usual. That is why we are voting not for that royal decree, not out of whim, but because we strongly believe that European funds should not be used for more than that. It seems to us that it has already been demonstrated that we cannot continue along the same path - we have a couple of nights and three yeses -: We cannot continue to contaminate as if we had an infinite planet. We cannot continue to perpetuate social inequalities and favor conditions for a few to have much while many have absolutely nothing, and for this the foundations supporting the new model of reconstruction cannot be in the hands of the big companies of IBEX 35. And, I said, three yeses. Yes, to reconstruction funds that go to small and medium-sized enterprises, to autonomous people. Yes to all those projects that enhance the social and solidarity economy because they are the companies that have the capacity to transform the economy into a greener, fairer and more resilient model. And yes to reconstruction funds managed from the proximity, from where the specificities of each territory are known. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of complying with the principle of subsidiarity, which is in all its founding documents, but it seems that they are far from this parliamentary seat. In short, yes, to be part of the solution and not to feed the problem. The proposal presented to us today Citizens may be driven by the good intentions that Mr Bal has vehemently shown, but to propose to create an independent agency for reconstruction and reforms - which does sound like a bathroom reform company - instead of governance bodies already established in the royal decree-law, such as the commission and the technical committee, suggests many doubts as to its drafting. From my point of view, we know nothing about the composition of the bodies, about functions, about the adoption of agreements, about the legal regime, about assets, about human resources and, above all, about relations with other public administrations, about coordination and control. The word 'independent' is suspicious, as Mr. Bel has pointed out, because who will control it, with what rank? It seems like a way to otherwise centralize funds by making communities have some involvement. Are you sure, Mr. Bal, that this construct of yours will avoid compadres and choriceos? I will be delighted to study your proposals in the presentation process. We also doubt that, given who this new organ, from the orange party of IBEX, comes to Esquerra, we cannot forget, Mr. Bal, the founding phrase of your party pronounced by Don Josep Oliu: We need a Podemos de Droits. And, of course, so much kindness from liberalism comes to us. That is why we cannot support this amendment in its entirety. As I have one minute left, I wish to send a message, with all due respect, to the parties of the Government. No more parliamentary trilerism. We hope that you will respect the legislative spirit of this House, that the argument of urgent need which you make to govern by royal decree will not remain at the gate and reach the Bureau. You remain in a blatant ridiculous situation when the urgent need disappears and the Bureau soon has real decrees drawn up under the urgent need, and it will be a year that is not seen as bills. I would like a certain commitment, specifically in this case, but also in general from the parties of the Government to try to solve this abnormality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u30	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Dutch Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Party, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop it now; please stop putting sticks on the wheels and locks on everything that has to do with European funds. Accept once that elections were held in this country on November 10, 2019; that as a result of these elections there is a coalition government that will, of course, among other powers manage these funds, and accept that the government of the State does not belong to the right by divine law. You speak, Mr. Bal, of swamps and the NO-DO. Inauguration of swamps and NO-DO reminds me of what you have proposed here, which basically comes to ask the government to inhibit the exercise of its constitutional powers; which basically comes to ask the government to leave in the hands of an independent body the ability to manage, manage, control everything that has to do with what is likely to be one of the most important policies to be dealt with in this Parliament in this legislature. And then you say that model is being used in other countries. It's a lie, not even you here have been able to put any examples of another country that is using this model, simply because you know it's a lie. None of the countries on which the governance model is already known for these funds has applied anything that looks like this, neither Germany nor Italy nor France nor Belgium, absolutely none. And it is not because, logically, no serious Government that respects itself, that respects democracy in its country, in its State, will allow it to be imposed a series of problems, obstacles and controls, so it must be a competence of that Government. So, normally, that doesn't happen. But there is something that worries me even more, and it is the justification that you make of why you think the existence of this agency is necessary. One expects them to have a justification, a technical rationale or, at least, to give rational arguments. But no, you basically tell us that we need this agency because you don't trust the government. [[A honourable Member: Of course not!]] They do not trust the Government and therefore we need an agency that is somehow above the Government and that controls what the Government does. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u32	Mrs. Muñoz, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u33	Firstly, I think it goes without saying that the opposition does not trust the government; if in every issue in this Parliament or in an autonomous parliament or in a municipality where the position does not trust the government, we have to invent an independent body or administration to manage that issue, you will tell me what kind of political system we would be living in. Certainly not a democracy. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But it is also - and this is what worries me - that I do not know if they do not realize that such arguments would serve to justify anything. It serves to justify what you propose in this amendment as a whole, but it also serves to justify, for example, a coup d'état. [[Rumors]] If you go to the justifications given at any historical time for any coup d'état, from before or from now on, you will see that in the end, basically, there is always that approach of distrust towards the Government and the need to undermine the capacity of the Government or, directly, supplant it by another that no one has chosen. I am therefore very concerned that this is the view you have of democracy. It is a very similar concept, for example, to the one underlying the manifestos we have recently seen of members of the Armed Forces on the reserve, which basically come to say that, since they do not trust what the Government can do in the management of the territorial problem or the Catalan question, it is also necessary to remove the Government from the middle and put another one they trust. This seems to me to be quite dangerous. On the other hand, one of the added arguments you give why you don't trust the government is the 2021 State General Budgets. You say that with these funds you can do again what has been done with the negotiation of the General Budgets, and you put it as a sign of the government's evil; a mischief of the government that results in the support of an absolute vast majority in this House, with the support of ten parties, and in budgets that serve to do just the opposite of what the right did for a decade, that is, to reverse austerity policies and return public investment and concern for social and labour rights in this country. Well, if that's a bad thing to do, you'll tell me what you think is a good thing to do. [[Applauds]] I say to you that I wish in this process that exactly what was done with the General Budgets is done, that is, that, on the one hand, the opposite is done of what the right would have done if it were in power and, on the other hand, that it is done by dialogue, negotiating with different parties, with different administrations and thinking about the keys to the needs that this country has to reverse the underlying trends that we have been dragging for ten years. We too have some doubts - we said it at the time during the debate on the royal decree -, doubts that have to do with transparency, doubts that have to do with the ability of the Administration to manage the funds, doubts that have to do with how the funds will be distributed. We understand that we are being sent a message from the streets that there is a situation of hopelessness, lack of expectations, of territories that feel abandoned that we have to reverse and that these funds should serve that purpose. That is why, of course, we will agree that a significant percentage of them should be given to local entities so that they can promote projects that boost the economy in their territories. We will agree with the participation of the autonomous communities; we will agree - and we see it as a necessity - that these funds will reach SMEs and autonomous, because we understand that this will make it easier for the economy to reactivate more immediately and, moreover, it will end up with the concentration of capital in the large companies that we have been dragging, and of course we will agree that the public initiative will be promoted. But all these are debates that have to be held in this Parliament, are debates that will be held within the government and are decisions that will be taken by the government that the Spanish have voted democratically. What is certainly not democratic and is not going to happen is that it is you, being an opposition, who say what is going to be done with these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all debate here today, Spain and its productive fabric are bled to death. After a devastating economic collapse, after accumulating 40% of Europe's new unemployed, after destroying 207 000 businesses, the hemorrhage continues. It is urgent to close this wound as soon as possible and there is no time to lose, because being late can once again be what condemns us to failure. Recent history attests this: we are late to push for decisive measures to relieve families, save businesses and save jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs these funds and needs them urgently, but it needs them to respond to the interests of Spain and not the Government. The amendment to the whole that citizens present today does not solve any of these issues; moreover, it puts them at risk, delays them by deferring the distribution mechanism and, at the same time, consolidates the greatest aberration, allowing the Government to continue to be responsible for approving the most decisive, namely the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. [[Applauds]] VOX did not vote in favour of the real decree-law that implements European funds; doing so would have made us complicit in a system with huge weaknesses in its governance, objectives and control systems. Unlike you, as opposed to the People's Party and above all to the ERC, we abstained from allowing its processing as a bill to improve it by means of amendments, and all this, precisely out of respect for our businesses, our traders, our SMEs, our workers and our self-employed, for whom, as we have said, aid is already late. And less bad than we did, because, as has been shown since then, the alternative - which was what the gentlemen of ERC wanted and what Citizens and the People's Group were going to facilitate - would have been suicidal. If the royal decree had not gone ahead a few weeks ago, just before the Catalan elections, this week would be bringing back to this House in a version no doubt worse, since it would again come negotiated with ERC in the framework of the post-electoral negotiations in Catalonia; the processing of European funds as a currency of change in the negotiations of a government in Catalonia and valuable weeks lost in its processing. This is what would have happened if we had acted with the irresponsibility of the People's Party and Citizens, who, with their vote, put their partisan interests before the general interests of Spain. [[applause]] It seems a lie that over the years in politics we have to explain such simple things to them. But what moved you was simply the fear of being out of play just before the Catalan elections. They misread the play. They changed their vote at the last moment thinking that we will act like you, and not. And the next day some of you rejoice to read in certain media the chronicles that you yourself had written; the same media, by the way, that was praising you with great headlines after the motion of censure; the same ones that now censor you after the bad results in Catalonia, because in the end it gave the same. You thought you had to choose between dishonor and defeat. They chose dishonor and obtained defeat. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, the country of Europe which has managed to implement the least in recent years, is now facing the major challenge of absorbing no less than EUR 15 billion, a record figure, and VOX is not going to hinder its processing. What is going to be done is to control the Government and ensure that no customer use is made of the funds and that it is not wasted, as happened in PlanE. That is why we are going to reject your return from the royal decree-law and we are going to table the necessary amendments to the bill to ensure proper investment and execution of the funds. Among other things, the five areas that I am going to introduce to you today will be the main lines of our amendments. Firstly, we are going to table amendments to ensure the material effectiveness of the implementation of European funds and their temporary limitation. Secondly, we are going to push for amendments to ensure that their governance responds to a country rather than a party project. The decisions of the Commission for Recovery and Resilience shall include the report of the representatives of the AIReF, the Banco de España and the Court of Auditors as a guarantee of rigour. The recovery and resilience plan that Spain sends to the European institutions, with reforms that will necessarily have to be approved by this House, will need the endorsement of this Congress of Deputies. Thirdly, primarily and decisively, it must respond faithfully to the productive fabric that is intended to be recovered. We have said this many times and we will therefore ensure that 80% of the total amount of activities financed from European funds are allocated to SMEs and self-employed people, that under no circumstances are these funds diverted to third countries or to projects that may affect national security or the general interest of Spain, that no programme financed from these funds encourages or can create mechanisms that generate an effect called illegal immigration and that the reference to gender ideology as a backbone of the distribution of aid, which is absurd, to replace it with agriculture, livestock, fisheries and rural development. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, urgent processing must be ensured, allowing time to be saved, shortening deadlines, but reducing deadlines at no time and under no circumstances can lead to the elimination of procedures as relevant as public consultation. Fifthly and lastly, it is necessary to adopt a number of amendments in order to prevent the speeding-up of procedures from leading to less control of public expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish, their businesses, their SMEs, and self-employed, who have been forced to close their businesses, urgently need compensation for the damage caused to them. They need help just to survive, and it's urgent. Let's do our part and don't keep putting obstacles. We deal with the bill with the urgency that the Spaniards demand and with the guarantees they deserve. This cannot be converted into Pedro Sánchez's plan P. It has to be Spain's recovery plan and in VOX we always put Spain's interests before any other consideration, although we remain alone, because there is only VOX left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u36	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we are again debating one of the most important and most important rules of law in the current legislature, because with a free-falling economy, two digits, nothing more and nothing less, the way in which our country formulates the plan to rebuild it is no small thing, it is not baladí. We play the future of thousands of Spaniards and thousands of companies. Mr Bal, we are voting in favour of this amendment, which we consider compatible with the bill announced yesterday by our President, Pablo Casado, which we have registered in this House and which comes in line with what we have advocated in recent months, which is the constitution of an independent authority as a tool in which to centralize the economic and social reconstruction plan that this country needs, as France, Italy or Greece have done. Ladies and gentlemen, before any spokesman for the Socialist Group comes up to this rostrum to incriminate us, to speak to us or to tell the People's Party that he is making an irresponsible opposition because in opposing this decree we deny the arrival of European funds, I would ask you not to lie. The People's Party is, of course, in favour of the arrival of European funds. What we are against is a decree designed to spend 140 billion in a discretionary and opaque way; to serve to develop an ideological agenda and not to implement a reform plan that makes our economy competitive, of which you have not said a single word yet in this House. We are in favour of Congress beating this plan for the recovery and transformation of the Spanish economy and against it being left exclusively at the dawn of an opaque negotiation between Sánchez and Iglesias and for them to come here only to inform about their share quotas. We are in favour of ensuring that the autonomous communities and the municipalities are not only heard, but are part of shared management, on an equal and proportional and just basis for the citizens they represent, and we are against using European funds to buy memberships of certain political parties or to distribute them to related governments, while at the same time punishing in a sectarian manner the Spaniards who live where you do not govern, as you have already done in this crisis. We are in favour of the funds reaching merchants and hoteliers, who after a year of ruining themselves have not received a single euro from the Government of Spain in direct aid, even though the President of the Government yesterday intended to show the opposite in this House and bring empty announcements to make up his appearance. We are in favour of the arrival of resources to tourism companies and against the fact that the Minister of Consumer Affairs - who has said that they must be loaded - has funds precisely to do what he thinks. We are in favour of them reaching the lines of hunger - in order to make them disappear - who really need this aid, to the third sector, and to serve, in short, to narrow the inequalities that Pedro Sánchez's management has increased over the past year. We are in favour of agility and not of arbitrariness and opacity with which you are going to manage the Losses; in favour of public-private collaboration with public and objective criteria and not of state-friendly intervention. We are in favour of administrative simplification, not of you duplicating organs so that, through the back door, you can circumvent management controls. We are in favour of transparent management and not that they have avoided requesting the mandatory reports in such a far-reaching reform, much less that they have taken up the report of the Council of State and stolen it from this House, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have the challenge - a huge challenge - of explaining to your voters the true scope of your position on 28 January and today also in this Congress. Recognize that you have put the greatest mechanism that this country is going to count on to address the economic crisis and recover our economy in the hands of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, who are going to manage it without limits, relaxing all the mechanisms of control. And, of course, they don't lie. This Decree is neither indispensable nor necessary for the arrival of Community funds; it is the mechanism that opens the door to manage them with more public consortia, with more subsidies without publicity, with parallel agencies, with mixed-economy companies where the Government does not choose companies that are going to receive public aid in a competitive manner. That was your responsibility, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Nor in his best dreams would he have imagined in Moncloa and Galapagar having such freedom in his action, thanks to his vote, to invest 140 billion in ideological drifts. To be more descriptive of your responsibility, I will use words that are not mine. I open quotes: These funds have been articulated in such a partisan way that they do not keep the minimum standards of neither ethics nor aesthetics, because the recovery plan is made directly dependent on the cabinet of the President of the Government and what he does is articulate a parallel administration. I close quotes. Do those words sound to you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros? You ended up saying - I open quotes -: What you are presenting to us today are the foundations of the largest customer network in the history of Spain. I drink to your generosity. I close quotes. Mr VOX, on the day this decree was validated, you brought a speech to vote no; on the way you changed the vote, but you forgot to change the speech. I don't know if this was demagogic, yet another, or a true chaff, a chaff that this time will cost very much to the SMEs, the self-employed and the unemployed, who, if their own forecasts are met, won't see a single euro with this decree in force and those who, if they don't arrive, you too will have to be held accountable. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, in view of the possibility that the economic agenda to lift up, to rebuild this country is in the hands of Churches, Montero, Garzón, erected as experts in reconstruction, after having been in health recovery, or as advisers, like the previous speaker, I ask you to reconsider and accept the offer made yesterday by our president, Pablo Casado, and agree to agree - because it can be agreed, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, it can be agreed - a plan of reforms to get this country out of the ruin and thus prevent the only way out is the drift that you have undertaken together with the populist left and that it ends in a sandstone in the form of cuts to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u39	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Castellón, I am going to listen to you and I am not going to devote a minute of my speech to talking about the People's Party; yes, then do not come and complain when they are irrelevant in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mr Bal, listening to you today in this House is to understand why you are going to disappear. They don't understand anything, Mr. Bal. I will sum it up: the public manages the public. I know you don't understand either, Mr. Bal. On the question before us, I can tell you that we are going to vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, today you are bringing to this Congress a debate that you have already lost on 28 January. That day the parliamentary majority in this House said three things with the same vote: validate the Royal Decree-Law proposed by the Government, treat it as a bill and reject its proposal. So, with their amendment to the whole, the only thing they show is that in the long list they have lost along the way in their eagerness to disappear they have also lost knowing what we are here for, which is to serve the country and the citizenry. But this is not the first time they have demonstrated how useless it is for Spain to be in this Congress. In many important votes you have said no. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they voted against the management of European funds, but they also voted against the general state budgets for 2021 at the most important time in our country. Every time there's been a moment of transcendence, we haven't been able to count on you. On this path to irrelevance, they bring this proposal, but they no longer deceive anyone; yes, ladies and gentlemen, because the useful policy, the truth, which is done to generate greater quotas of well-being and progress, which is done with standards of democratic quality, transparency and effectiveness cannot be made with deception. You know what I think? That it's actually an excuse for anyone to talk about you when no one's talking anymore. When the Spanish Government brought to this House the Royal Decree-Law for validation a few weeks ago, it brought a rigorous, responsible, agile and efficient proposal, but above all tremendously guaranteed to modernize the public administration and establish the channels for the effective management of European funds. That is what, Your Honor, is about putting in place the necessary instruments to channel the European funds, which can be implemented, which can be used. That is the debate and not the one you are doing today. And let us also do it well, ladies and gentlemen, that these funds be used for the necessary transformation of our productive model, our economy and our country, and that they also be for projects with a high potential for employment generation and recovery. You, as always, have remained in nobody's land in this debate. That the PP announces that the decree will appeal to the Constitutional Court? You go and present an amendment in its entirety. But I'm going to sum it up, because I don't think they've understood it either: Citizens radicalizing to look like PP, PP radicalizing to look like VOX and goes VOX and abstains and, in the meantime, ends up eating their toast, advances them in Catalonia and goes on to do so also in the rest of Spain. That is also their irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u41	Calm down, calm down, it's the election results; and I tell you one thing: unfortunately. They live in permanent war against politics, institutions and the public, with their easy speeches, as in this alternative text in which they attack against the public administration and against employees and public employees, who have proved - indeed, at the worst time of our lives - to have done extraordinary work, a superhuman effort to process aid and benefits and to protect all citizens. I'll explain. They talk about creating an independent agency, with solvent professionals, with accredited experience, with years of recognized professional prestige, Mr Bal. But, ladies and gentlemen, if these are the requirements that the judges of the Supreme Court, for example, have, and you also criticize them and, in addition, criticize the election process! It is enough, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, of such deception, it is enough of such a bad policy. In addition, lessons of independence, none. You are the same ones who adulterate the lists they present in Catalonia with a stroke of finger. You are the same ones who rule in Murcia, Castile and León, Madrid and Andalusia against the majority vote of the citizens and entangled at the feet of the People's Party and VOX. [[Applauds]] You are the same people who criticize this government, with ministers such as Vice-President Calviño, González Laya, Robles, Grande-Marlaska, Duke or Escriva, who will always be examples of much greater independence than any of you will ever be in your lives and examples of commitment to the public and to this country, ladies and gentlemen. But it is also that in their own explanatory statement they talk about this proposal to create a system of governance similar to that of France. It is another lie, because do you know what is happening in France, with a government presided over by Macron, which you call a partner? That the management of these funds is similar to that of Spain: they are managed by its Ministry of Economy, which has also launched a plan similar to our Recovery Plan, and its follow-up is chaired by the Prime Minister, who oversees its implementation and the schedule of commitments. As in Spain, Mr. Bal. This is what is happening throughout Europe, which, by the way, is logical, as we are talking about a country project, which is what the Spanish Government is doing, in a country project. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We can all be wrong, but it's not all right. Doubt and mistrust cannot always be sown. The cost of all this to our democracy is terrible and generates a deep citizen rejection, and I say this, ladies and gentlemen, in the week that we remember the 40th anniversary of the attempted coup d'état on 23 February. Taking care of democracy is the task of all and of all and will be our best legacy for the next generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casares.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u43	We continue with the agenda item corresponding to the election of the members of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radio Television, in accordance with the first transitional provision of Law 5/2017 of 29 September, amending Law 17/2006 of 5 June, on State-owned radio and television, to regain the independence of the Spanish Radio Television Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. The election shall be made by the system laid down in Rule 205, in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and those candidates who obtain a higher number of votes shall be elected, reaching at least a two-thirds majority, i.e. 234 votes. The fourth secretary will read the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Appointments on the suitability of candidates for membership in the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Fourth secretary, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u44	From 13 January to 10 February 2021, candidates for the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation were presented to the Advisory Committee on Appointments in the evaluation report adopted by the Committee of Experts on 10 December 2018. The majority of representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed their support for the eligibility of the eighty-seven candidates who had appeared before the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u45	Thank you very much, Secretary Fourth. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Some parliamentary groups have called for action. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u46	Thank you, President. I have been in politics for four years, the four I have been in this House, and before I entered Congress I was wondering, as a spectator, whether there would be any situation in which the People's Party and the Socialist Party would agree. I remember what my opinion was, for I assumed that, in the event of a national catastrophe or an extreme need, they would unite. Moreover, I confess that, when the pandemic began and we became aware of the entity and gravity, even here, being in the Health Commission, I often thought: With so much death and ruin, the agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party is imminent. But no, the Spaniards dying and ruining it and here there was no agreement for the much needed extensions of the state of alarm, for example, a state of alarm that was sustained thanks to Citizens; nor to negotiate a budget, the most important in the recent history of democracy, which we negotiated until the end and achieved things, but, for that reason, neither the People's Party, because the conservatives and socialists of Spain are doomed not to understand themselves even in the harshest circumstances of our country. What matter of vital importance can unite them? Is there any? Yes, but it's not the ruin and death of our compatriots, no; it's the division of judges and Spanish Radiotelevision, the latter being what has been perpetrated between these walls between yesterday and this morning. I'll tell you how I feel. I am sad and I am ashamed; I am sad because you are calling on Spain to always depend on populism and nationalism for its inability to speak among you, as we have asked you since the beginning of this legislature; I am ashamed because, as much as I want to explain that not all politicians are like this, this is tearing apart the image of the whole politics facing the Spaniards. You've lost land grabs. Get out there and ask the Spaniards if they want you to talk or negotiate and for what. How are you going to explain to those who have ruined or lost their father that the most important agreement you reach is to distribute Spanish Broadcasting and the quotas of the General Council of the Judiciary? But what planet do you live on? Can't they think of better service in Spain than sharing judges and public radio and television? We Citizens got a public contest and it started; they supported it for cosmetic reasons, trusting to commit adultery from the beginning. The competition was launched; we appointed a committee of experts with very prestigious people who would select, from among the candidates, the twenty who considered themselves better. Those were the rules that we all gave ourselves and that we set in motion. The experts chose these twenty candidates; the PP, the PSOE and Podemos saw that they did not enter, that they did not manage to alter and force that committee of experts to select whom they wanted. And, of course, when the experts said: These are the twenty candidates, you answered them: But who do you think you are talking to? We are national sovereignty! How can you tell us which candidates to vote for? Of course, experts are hallucinating. I invite you to read them and listen to them these days. From here, I want to thank you for your work and wish you all the best, although I understand that when you see a Member approach, you will change your path from now on. [[Applauds]] Another issue is the candidates. They put all the candidates in the pandemic through the Appointments Commission when they were negotiating the board of directors in the next room; and, whoever saw the Appointments Commissions and the questions asked to the candidates, who read the resumes, who read the projects and who gave the feeling that everything was absolutely decided. But if you haven't even kept the ways to wait for the Senate Appointments Committee and you've already told who you're going to vote for in the Senate too, what candidates you're going to vote for in the Senate! [[Applauds]] I am very sorry to say that we are not going to vote; and I am telling you this because there are very valid people among the candidates, but you have tampered with the whole process. And now, an evidence, the most valued of all by the committee, after the sad death of Mrs Gómez Montano, is Mr Javier Montemayor, quite different from the others. Are you going to vote for him? Today we will see how many votes Mr. Montemayor reaps. On the other hand, from what we have seen today, they are going to vote for number 55; they are not voting for 1, but they are going to vote for number 55; a gentleman - Socialist Party gentlemen, look what they are going to vote for today - who writes of Rubalcaba, already dead, 'the conspirator monk' on Podemos' blog. [[applause]] [[Shows a press clipping]] Aren't you ashamed to vote for this? Aren't you ashamed to put a guy like that on the Spanish Broadcasting Council? A little dignity with yours! My group is not going to participate in this pantomime. You have disrespected the experts; you have disrespected the candidates and you are disrespecting the Spaniards. Don't be surprised when no one sees or listens to Spanish Radio Television anymore. And all of you - you, you and you - will be responsible. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Group]] [[pointing out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u47	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u48	Thank you. After the anti-politics speech, let's see if we're talking about the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and we're avoiding, in fact, reporting journalists. [[Applauds]] Finally, this situation is unblocked; finally, for all the candidates; finally, for the Spanish Radio and Television workers and, finally, for the citizenry. It has been a complex, long process, in which much work was done in the XII Legislature, and I from here want to claim the work that my colleague Noelia Vera did. We salute this process. For this Member, this process has been truly enriching in the part where all the candidates who have wanted it have appeared, and in the projects we have seen analysis, we have seen diagnosis, we have seen ideas, and I think that all have to be taken advantage of, have to be taken into account. We cannot waste all that knowledge that the candidates have poured into the process, so, thanks to all of them, thanks to this work of proposal and reflection and, please, I ask the advisory council that this work does not fall into oblivion for the sake of the whole citizenry. What public television do we need? An RTVE that knows how to take advantage of the talent of its workforce, and in order to take advantage of the talent of its workforce, we must ensure that, if you want to pursue a professional career, if you want to talk about talent, we must ensure material conditions that allow you to work well, that allow you to develop all that capacity you have and, for that, you must talk about that there are more than 300 temporary workers - and I will say this in female because 90 or 95% of those workers are women - for more than 10 or 13 years. They need an immediate and just solution. We need an RTVE that gives prominence to the territorial centres, because the reality of this country - even for those who do not like it - is plurinational, and because it has to be counted from Canary Islands to San Esteban de las Cruces, in Uvieu, from San Cugat del Vallès to Mérida. A plural, independent RTVE that is not directed by interests other than those of the public service and that does not react with unprecedented reprisals to the first label that certain power does not like. [[Applauds]] This is important for our present and it is important for our memory, because Spanish Radio Television has a file that has to be accessible and gives the possibility of doing derivative works by our creators and creators, because it is a very valuable and common heritage for the citizenry, but it is also important for our future. I personally believe that one of the best moments that Radiotelevision Española had was in the 1980s, and proof of that is not only The crystal ball but the participation that there was of childhood and pre-adolescence in the elaboration of those contents. And this is important for the future, because, in the end, those generations that we were in the eighty-first of the ninety watching that television we went out in 2011 to the squares and the streets to ask for more democracy, to ask for more rights, because we had solidly settled what ideas of participation and democracy we wanted for our country. Public broadcasting is very important, because it is important to be aware that it is a public service. It is important that it be transparent, that it be independent - not because it says so, but because it is so - that it be a guarantor of the rights of those who work in it, and that the responsibility of the advisory council today is very great. Philosopher Bertrand Russell spoke of those who have the ability to fix the closure of reality. That capacity is provided by the media and any public television and also any private television to be referenced need to ensure that there are also community media, because citizenship also has the capacity to generate information, to disseminate information, and that diversity is going to allow us to speak of a truly referenced RTVE Corporation. I'm done. Last week the citizen spokesperson mentioned it, because he's a filmmaker - I too, and we've been able to talk a lot in this process, and we've read a lot of curriculum and we've seen a lot of projects - new moon, Howard Hawks. Of course, how are we not going to talk about the dignity of journalism! In fact, we need journalists more than ever. Against the patrons already spoken of by the disciples of Aristotle and against the bulls, who did not invent them Trump, even if the far-right country might think so, we need more journalists than ever, but I will quote another film: Citizen Kane. These journalists also need to ensure that their work is not conditioned by media oligopolies. If we talk about cinema, we play movies, I mention moss all, because, if not, we'll be cheating. [[Applauds]] The task ahead of the advisory board is enormous. We have all the confidence and what is in your hands is to guarantee Article 20 of the Constitution, truthfulness, and ultimately to guarantee democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mariscal Zabala has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u50	Thank you, President. The elections are over and the consensus returns, the consensus between the People's Party and the Socialist Party so that everything remains the same. Now, suddenly, they stop coming to Congress to debate and come to applaud each other. They come to do so that we call the great theater of consensus, a theater that you do very well because it has been doing so for forty years, but it is a theatrical work that already bores the Spaniards. And the Spaniards want to know what's behind the stage and the Spaniards need to know that behind these historic walls of the Chamber there are hundreds of offices, offices where the deputies of the consensus split the institutions. Within a few days the judges will be distributed and today they intend to distribute Spanish Television. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's tell the Spaniards, VOX has come to Congress to tell the Spaniards what happens behind these walls. [[Applauds]] And we have also come to remind you that the institutions were created to serve the Spaniards, not to serve you. [[Applauds]] Before we talk about the theatrical work that you are performing here today, called the renewal of Spanish Television, let's explain to the Spaniards the context. Today could be a good day for Spanish Television and, therefore, also for the Spanish because today, after a long time, we could be deciding how to choose and manage the public channel, managing it in a different way than it has been done so far so that Spanish Television would be a television loved by the Spanish. Because what is Spanish Television today? Today Spanish Television is neither television nor Spanish, it is a propaganda apparatus of the Government and a national shame for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Before, when some important event occurred, the Spaniards relied on Spanish Television for information and today, however, their information is the least seen and the least credible. And their chats are the least plural. In fact, on some occasions La Sixth's chats give the feeling that they are more plural than Spanish Television chats. [[Applauds]] It was once a pride for journalists and communication professionals to work on Spanish Television and today, however, some feel it is a disgrace. And many Spanish Television workers are demotivated because they see how their work is replaced by an army of private producers. And it gives the feeling that the consensus parties have turned Spanish Television into an automatic cashier for their ideological friends. For the Spaniards to get an idea of what I'm saying, right now what you're seeing is not being recorded by the Spanish TV cameras, but by a private producer in exchange for a millionaire contract. [[Applauds]] Before Spanish Television was a healthy television and had revenues from advertising. However, you, gentlemen of the consensus, one day it occurred to you that it was a good idea to distribute that publicity among the televisions of the duopoly, and today those private televisions end with economic benefits while Spanish Television ends with debts, debts that will have to be paid by all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards wonder why and who are the culprits that Spanish Television is today a terrible television. Consensus is the culprit and VOX is not going to agree with the parties that have brought us here. The consensus is that it is the one that has waited for the Catalan elections to pass to reveal to us the end of their theatre, a work where the victims are the Spanish and, in this case, the Spanish Television workers, and also the candidates that have been selected, because you have condemned them not to be good managers, but to be political commissioners In VOX we do not deceive anyone, we clearly say what we think before, during and after an election. [[Applauds]] That is why we announced before the Catalan elections that VOX was not going to participate in this distribution of advisors. We will be the opposition to Spanish Television that today agree the PP, the PSOE and Podemos. Of course, we will defend the Spanish Television that we have always defended, a television at the service of the Spaniards and not of the political parties. We know that today we are left alone here with this position, but we know that there are more and more Spaniards out there. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mariscal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u52	Thank you, President. I am surprised that there is a parliamentary group like VOX speaking this morning about the great theatre, about that obscurantism, about which has been agreed between the scenes; you, who this morning have continued without explaining why you were given the vote so that the government could distribute without any control the 140 billion euros of the European funds. [[Applauds]] Or could you explain to us right now why you were claiming from the PSOE a share in the judiciary? Because you've claimed it, no matter how much you say it now that you don't. [[Protests]] Enough of the cute numbers and country lifeguards that you exercise day and day too! Yesterday you portrayed yourself with everything to do with the public media. Yesterday you criticized your intervention in the public media. You guys yesterday, like we can, vetoed journalists, because you're gagging the free press in this country. That's his only goal. [[Applauds]] We, the People's Party, are a state party, unlike other parties that are sitting in this House, and that is precisely why we are pleased to have reached the end of the public contest. We are in the penultimate process of the public contest of Radiotelevision to choose a presidency and a new board of directors. This fact has a double importance: first, because it culminates with Parliament's unquestionable protagonistism, as the Spanish Broadcasting Act contains, and second, because it puts an end to a stage of provisionality - which seems to be that some groups feel very comfortable in it - at the head of Radiotelevision, imposed by the government in 2018, whose balance has been absolutely disastrous. There was therefore a need for institutional stability and a change in direction. Only in the year 2020 - see, in the year 2020 - Spanish Television news has lost a million viewers. The first channel records the worst data in its history, as well as Radio Nacional de España. It has been generated on the part of the sole administrator - the one that the government decided that it should direct the plans of Spanish Radiotelevision and that you want it to remain on the site, denying the possibility to complete this contest - a deficit of more than 90 million euros in two years, when it inherited Spanish Radiotelevision with a surplus of 29 million. The credibility of Spanish Radio Television throughout all these days and years has been absolutely eroded. And doubts about the legal failure, for example, to produce information programmes have been intolerable and unquestionable, and so the unions appealed to the Court of Auditors. All our respect for the professionals of the house, as well as all our respect for those who attended the public contest. For Us it is urgent that the contest be concluded and for that it is necessary to recover the public service of Spanish Radiotelevision and that it be socially profitable, because we must not forget that all Spaniards are shareholders of this public service and it has to be an independent, rigorous, plural and quality public service. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, precisely in order to achieve a profound correction of the direction of Spanish Television, in order for it to be diluted in the face of an audiovisual competition that is implacable with the mediocrity and fanaticism in which it is currently installed Spanish Radiotelevision, it is necessary to conclude the contest, as it is going to happen today, because it is urgent to rescue the sense of public service of Spanish Radiotelevision from those bad sectarian and manipulative practices in which the Government has found itself so comfortable and in front of what we have said enough! with this public contest. [[Applauds]] It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to clear up doubts about its viability and reason for being with a firm initiative in favour of rigour, neutrality and pluralism. No matter how many groups deny the greatest, an extraordinary opportunity is opened from now on to leave behind the scandal and the discredit in which other groups feel so comfortable and that, unfortunately, has suffered Spanish Radio Television throughout all this time, and to begin to travel with the encouragement of Parliament - because that is why the Spanish Radio Television Control Commission - a path of success and quality, which defines the best audiovisual public service to which we aspire and have the right to enjoy all the Spaniards. They have a great opportunity to join this new future for Spanish Radio Television. There are those who are obsessed with staying in manipulation, in sectarianism, in provisionality, and we do not want that for public broadcasting. We want public broadcasting for all Spaniards, free, plural, rigorous and responsive to the needs of Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this process started a long time ago is coming to an end; this process which has been extended too much, mainly by electoral calls, but also by the actions of the different political rights of our country, which together or separately - as we have seen today in this Chamber to VOX and Citizens - have dedicated themselves to blocking all this time any progress, exit or proposal for its speedy resolution. [[Applauds]] By the way, the complaints made today by Citizens and by VOX are amazing; amazing because the first, in its day, raised the disappearance of Spanish Radiotelevision, and the second, because of its position throughout this time of vetoing the news of this public channel and of systematic attack on the magnificent professionals of the house. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about the distribution of posts on the Board of Directors, but this is not called distribution; it is called law enforcement, it is called article 20 of the Spanish Constitution and Law 17/2006, of state-owned radio and television. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you, in your efforts to boycott permanently all the agreements that are being carried out, are doomed to become a residual and increasingly irrelevant force. I invite you to reflect. Today we have shown that we are capable of reaching agreements with that part of the right that has a sense of state. We have done so with the People's Party, with which we usually fail to agree, but these things obviously involve negotiations and efforts to bring about a quality public service in which we do believe; we believe, and we have demonstrated it over time. We have done so with the 2017 Law, which reformed the way of election, strengthening the independence of the corporation, and with our Royal Decree-Law 4/2018, applicable to the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its president. The implementation of this model of appointment entered into a complex political process that has ended up offering as a result a list of pre-selected candidates, from which the future members of the board of directors and, among them, their president; a complex process in which to highlight and thank the important work of the expert group without which we would not have reached this final process. In addition, it has enabled us to hear in the Appointments Committee magnificent professionals with whom the audiovisual sector is counting and who are facing a major challenge. As this happens, we have had the interim mandate of the sole administrator in the middle. Coming to this point, I have to make a reference to Mrs Rosa María Mateo, who assumed that unique and provisional administration. It is true that he did so with the intention that it will last a couple of months and this has been very long in time. But from this rostrum I would like to acknowledge, on behalf of my parliamentary group, his professionalism and vocation as a public service when he enters and remains at the head of the corporation, knowing as we are of the important challenges and adverse elements that he has had to face and that they did not admit any further delay because of their importance, all in a climate of political turmoil and electoral calls by means. So, from here I would like to thank you on behalf of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] It is sad that some people want so little public television and believe so little in it to discredit it for no reason, that they believe in it only as a useful tool to conquer power. It cannot be used as a bold weapon, ladies and gentlemen, depending on the space you occupy in the Chamber. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to create the foundations for Spanish Radio-television to become a company of which all citizens feel proud, regardless of their political and religious ideas. The spirit of the founding parents of public radio and television must be strengthened, able to compete from the conviction of public service, independent, truthful, accessible and of quality as a primary element, making citizens better and contributing to the improvement of democracy from plurality and diversity. We believe that that spirit...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u55	Mrs. Raya, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u56	I'm on my way. ... It is reflected in the trajectory and projects presented by the people we are going to vote on today. We will not disappoint Spanish society and thereby strengthen democracy itself, with a Spanish Radiotelevision with and for the future, independent and plural. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Raya. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended, which will resume at 11 a.m. for the voting on the outstanding items and announce the result of the vote for the election of the members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. The meeting resumed at 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u58	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Before voting, the second secretary of the Bureau will read out the institutional statement on the occasion of World Rare Disease Day.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u59	Institutional Declaration on World Rare Disease Day. It is estimated that more than 3 million people in Spain live with these diseases or are awaiting diagnosis. Rare or uncommon diseases are considered those whose prevalence is below 5 per 10,000 inhabitants. Half of people with rare diseases wait more than four years to get a diagnosis; 20% of them have waited more than a decade. Because of this only 5% of the more than 6172 identified worldwide have treatment. Because it is a very diverse group of diseases due to degenerative genetic pathologies, many multisystemic and some degenerative and due to its low prevalence, the effort to know these diseases is much greater, which implies delays in the precise diagnosis and, consequently, an effective treatment. Because of the characteristics of these diseases, people who suffer from them have always been a vulnerable group with specific needs, which also has a huge impact on families, both social and sometimes economic. The research stake has been the hope for the people who suffer from these diseases and their families, together with the efforts of the scientific and health community to better understand the origin and manifestations of these diseases and to achieve appropriate treatments. The outbreak of the pandemic by COVID-19 has shown us that the enormous efforts in research in a cooperative way have made it possible for humanity to have effective vaccines. That is why we must strengthen confidence in the knowledge derived from research in order to solve these hitherto unknown diseases in large part. This reality has shown us that the efforts of public administrations and private public collaboration can succeed in this endeavour. The situations generated by the pandemic have also highlighted the need to promote coordination between health and social systems, especially in affected groups of these diseases which have a great family and social impact and which, due to the consequences of the pandemic, have sometimes been interrupted by their social and health care. In the case of girls and boys, measures to prevent situations of school disadvantage. The Congress of Deputies wishes to acknowledge the work carried out by patients' associations and the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases, Feder, for the work they are developing guided by commitment, struggle and union as the main values for the hope of families. This year's motto to commemorate World Rare Disease Day wants to bet on hope: 'Symptoms for Hope' aims to place hope in knowledge and collective effort as a solution to advance knowledge of these diseases. Hope that we want to share with Feder and that we must pursue as a society, for what is essential the recognition to the dedication of health professionals, social and teachers and the effort of the researchers. Symptoms of hope that we want to share with people affected by so-called rare diseases, but we cannot forget that to reach public institutions we must bet to promote the measures that allow us to move forward in overcoming the challenges they face, for which it is essential: Advancing the knowledge of these diseases through a clear commitment to research. Strengthen the system of centres, services and reference units and their coordination with Europe to facilitate equity in access to diagnostic and treatment resources throughout the National Health System. Strengthen coordination between health and social services for comprehensive care and social needs for people affected by these diseases. In the case of boys and girls, support measures for school inclusion and prevention of disadvantages. Collaboration with patient associations to improve knowledge of the situation experienced by patients and family members. On this day the Congress of Deputies wishes to thank Feder for his work in supporting the people affected and in his struggle to make progress in the knowledge of these diseases and this 2021 share this symptom of hope. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u60	Thank you very much, Second Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. No-law propositions. No bill of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the elimination of inviolability and other figures of special judicial protection to members of the royal family. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 248 telematics, 350; in favour, 3 plus 71 telematics, 74; against, 99 plus 177 telematics, 276.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u62	It's rejected. - OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE AMENDMENT OF THE REAL Decree 1971/1999 OF 23 DECEMBER, TO RECOGNIZE NEURODEGENERATIVE DISABILITY OF 33 % MINIMUM AND FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW TYPE OF DISABILITY BASED ON THE TYPE OF THESE DISABILITIES. [[File number 162/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u63	Proposal for a law amending Royal Decree 1971/1999 of 23 December 1999 on the recognition of neurodegenerative diseases with a minimum degree of disability of 33% and the creation of a new type of disability based on the typology of these diseases. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 248 telematics, 350; in favour, 41 plus 147 telematics, 188; against, 61 plus 94 telematics, 155; abstentions, 7 telematics.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u64	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u65	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to clarify its position on the request to cancel the public debt maintained by the ECB, which has requested the two main parties, PSOE and UPD, to support it. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 248 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 112 telematics votes, 153; against, 61 plus 134 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u66	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO COMPLETE ALL THE SPAINS WHO HAVE BEEN PROHIBITED TO WORK. [[File number 173/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u67	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government will take to compensate all Spaniards who have been banned from working. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 248 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 113 telematics votes, 154; against, 61 plus 134 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u68	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO GUARANTEE THE EXERCISE OF THE PERIOD IN FREEDOM AND WITHOUT POLITICAL INJURY. [[File number 173/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u69	Motion resulting from urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure the exercise of journalism in freedom and without political interference. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 248 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 60 telematics votes, 101; against, 61 plus 101 telematics votes, 162; abstentions, 87 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u70	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u71	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 246 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 102 plus 216 telematics votes, 318; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 26 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u72	The opinions were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u73	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December, submitted by the Parliamentary Group Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 248 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 61 telematics votes, 102; against, 61 plus 186 telematics votes, 247; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u74	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-25-CD210225.u75	Voting for the election of members of the Board of Directors of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. The result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 276; in favour of Don José Manuel Pérez Tornero, 249; in favour of Don Elena Sánchez Caballero, 249; in favour of Don José Manuel Martín Medem, 249; in favour of Don María Carmen Sastre Bellas, 249; in favour of Don Jenaro Castro Muiña, 249; in favour of Don Juan José Baños Loinaz, 249; in favour of Don Francisco Moreno García, 2; in favour of Don Franciscana del Carmen González Santana, 2; in favour of Don José Gregorio Morillas Cantero, 1; in favour of Don Carmen Domínguez Penelas, 1; in favour of Don Rafael Bernardo Jiménez, 1; in favour of Don María Eizaguirre Comandador, 2; in favour of Don Angel Ignacio García Castilejo, 12; in favour of Don Josep Mitjà Pau, 12; in favour of Don Juan Luis Manfredi Sánchez, 12; in favour of Don Ángel Ignacio García Castilejo, 10. Therefore, having obtained more than two thirds of the votes of the members of the Chamber, they have been elected as members of the Board of Directors of Spanish Radiotelevision: don José Manuel Pérez Tornero, dona Elena SánchezCaballero, don José Manuel Martín Medem, dona María Carmen Sastre Bellas, don Jenaro Castro Muiña and don Juan José Baños Loinaz. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Let them kiss! Kiss them!]] Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was eleven and fifty minutes in the morning. [[*******page with picture **********]]
