ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, in the sense that point 29, corresponding to the validation or repeal of real decree-laws, is to be discussed before point 33, relating to proposals for the creation of subcommissions. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups on the real and effective equality of trans-nationals. Mrs Vallugera Balañà spoke for the presentation of the initiative by the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u3	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Good afternoon, deputies, deputies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u4	Excuse me, Mrs. Vallugera. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. The session has begun.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u5	Thank you, President. It said something not very relevant, which was: good afternoon, Members of Parliament. This afternoon we present the proposed law for the real and effective equality of trans people. I'll be very clear. It was not our wish to present this bill. Our intention, our hope, was to discuss this issue on the occasion of the bill brought by the Government, which was one of the elements, as I recall, of the investiture pact, but the constant and repeated obstruction of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has jeopardized this bill. It has endangered the light and human rights of trans people, who are human rights, remain parked and without sufficient recognition for days, for weeks, for years. Human rights cannot wait. When it's in our hands to eradicate or alleviate people's suffering, it can't wait. For this delay, and with the impetus and mandate of the collectives and associations, we bring this proposal, which we hope will be approved. We hope that consideration will be adopted. We are precisely bringing this text and not another text because we want to give every possibility to the agreement. We want it to become law, and not for some to put on the medal and capitalize on the subject. No, no, We talk about human rights, about transforming rights into law. The basic budgets of this proposal are two, and I warn you that they are irrefutable: gender self-determination or gender self-determination - say it as you please - and depathology. It is curious - you must know all, those who are here and those who are listening to us - that you and you, the PSOE and the PP, have already voted in favour of laws that are based on these principles, not once or twice or three times, but on many autonomous communities. Without going further, yesterday in the Canary Islands you voted in favour and you abstained, which we ask you to do at least today as well. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Moreover, not only in autonomous communities, but here, in Congress, they signed the 2019 paper, which was drafted exactly or identically to the text that we bring today for consideration. What has happened to this setback? Why do they not listen to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights? Why do they not comply with article 10 of its Constitution, which bases the dignity of the person, the inalienable and inviolable rights which are his own and the free development of the personality? Because we're talking about this. We are talking about inherent and inviolable human rights. We don't talk about feelings, we don't talk about desires, we don't talk about illusions. Trans people don't feel, they don't want, they are. Son. They're what they say they are. Put it in your head because, let's say what the rest of us say, let's think what the rest of us think, the important thing is who they are and only they can say it. [[Applauds]] Do you know what confrontations, reticences are for? To stir up hate speech and to increase - I suppose they know that they have recently increased in an alarming way - aggressions and humiliations to trans people. I'm going to tell you something I might not have to do. I am a cys woman and this implies that I have never - never - lived in the first person the looks, the humiliations, the fear, the aggressions, the extreme difficulties to find work, the difficult, almost impossible access to housing, and all the obstacles that are found in their day to day, but I am also a feminist and I know that feminism is a daily battle to get lives that deserve to be lived, and that the solidarity of women among us, in the networks, in understanding, in empathy, in explaining that the private is public, that we are citizens of the first, that we do not accept how this society is built, that has never counted on our being, with our desires, with our looks, with our intentions and with our contributions. I am feminist and I claim that our bodies, our minds and our lives are only ours, and that we are different, completely heterogeneous, and that is why I can never speak for all, and neither do I here. But, at the same time, I am aware of my privileges: the privilege of race, the privilege of heterosexuality, the privilege of never having gone through hunger or cold, the privilege of having access to education. And from that place of personal privilege, which deliberately deconstructs, is from where I am able to understand and share the need for us, as a society, to break the remaining barrier. Having incorporated the rights of homosexual couples and having advanced in recognizing all ways of loving, we must now recognize all ways of being. [[Applauds]] Do you imagine - I ask you - what does it mean that you are forced to be who you are not? That they judge you and violate your privacy every day? That you know perfectly well who you are and that they deny it to you in your face day after day? What do they look at you with strangeness - when not with rejection - that they attack you, that they humiliate you and that they take the power to tell you how you should live? I am incapable of imagining that hell, but instead I am able to do everything in my hand to prevent it, to change it, to know that they and they are me, and I am them and they; to fight by changing the laws and, to the extent I can, the minds of those who believe themselves with the right to impose their own beliefs. They're screaming out there that this means the erasers of women. It is false, completely false; what it means is to reinforce what it is to be a woman, because we are subjected by the same patriarchy, and because in them, in the trans women, all the exclusions and all the violence of our system are quoted, and that is why I take them from my hand and they are part of my feminist movement, that is why. [[Applauds]] They also say that it means strengthening the cultural stereotypes established by the socially created gender. In a fallacious first glance perhaps so, but can you tell me what more must be broken gender stereotypes and beliefs than a man who can bear? They accompany us on the path to the destruction of gender. They will be agents of that destruction together with us, but we must allow it. I also remind you - and this is important - that this law does not refer only to trans women, it also does so with regard to trans men and people who define themselves as non-binaries, and instead there has been no noise there. Plant it: why do you care about this noise? [[Applauds]] We have come to this situation because of their lack of courage. Look, there were a lot of debates about same-sex marriage - if it was natural, if it wasn't, if it was marriage, if we had to call it I don't know how -; lawmaking today has entered into the everyday life of all of us, it's the normal and it's the fair. Why in a law that also tries to expand the channels of our freedoms are we so reticent? Why can't we break this last barrier, which will make us better as a society, as people, that will manage to open our field? We incorporated, yes, into the text - which was not - the need for reparation. We must do so and it is of justice. You know that there was a prison where transgender people were tortured, you know that you have been victims of Francoist hunting and persecution, you know - and if not, you should know - that you have been victims of the clumsiness and ignorance of the evil so-called Transition. Should I remind you of the terrible law of public scandal? Should I remind you of the systematic violence exercised by the State for its action or its indifference? It is justice - and we must - remember, repair and visibly. I'm finishing up. Today we have an opportunity to advance in the recognition of human rights, and I say recognize and legislate because rights exist, simply those violated every day. Every time we advance in the recognition of the right, it is a triumph for those who will exercise it and for those who do not, it is a triumph for all of us, for all of us, it is a breakthrough for society as a whole, it is a seed of future, of freedom, of justice, that concerns us all and that makes us all and all better. I just want to end by pleading for courage, honesty and for them to stand in the face of a debate that has ended this way because they have not been able to manage it. The people out there, the collectives, the associations, deserve it and they need it. If you're on the left, how long are you going to look somewhere else? How long will they not want to recognize the rights of citizens who are our neighbours? How long are you going to allow the violence unleashed against your bodies and your minds? How long will they not give them the opportunity to be citizens and citizens of their own right? How long? Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u7	Thank you, President. This proposition of law is an invitation to leave the trench of our apriorisms, an opportunity for the open field of words, taking care to the extreme of those we choose so that they do not become bold weapons. More than ten thousand transgender people live in Spain, seven hundred of whom are minors. Many of these people suffer from depression. According to The Lancet medical magazine, extrapolating international data can reach 60% of people who suffer from depression. This Parliament has the power and responsibility to drastically reduce this ratio, especially when it comes to helping adolescents. The Constitutional Court, in its Judgment 99/2019, says that leaving minors outside the right to self-determination sexually deprives them of the free development of their personality. We are therefore talking about the best interests of the child. The objective of the trans law is to eliminate the last remaining discrimination of those who are not recognized within the gender attributed to them at birth, from their own self-determination and leaving behind the obligation to provide psychological or medical reports or to go beyond years of hormonal treatment. We believe that it is not a mental health professional who should formally determine the feeling of a person, of a human being. We know that this self-determination of gender identity raises a great controversy, we know it, we are aware of it; it does so against the Elimination of Women, in feminist circles, who feel that they are endangering certain safe spaces or that access to services and aids can be put at risk. In fact, the bill does not refer to trans people in situations of violence or whether they should be considered victims of gender-based violence. Controversy also plays in the field of sports, especially in individual women's sport, where clean play must be guaranteed. There is a reference to the normative compliance of international competition, but it must be accompanied - we understand - by pronouncements and amendments arising from the debate carried out by expert voices in the field of sport, whether of basic sport or of competition sport at the highest level. And the third front of controversy is confined to the scope of the prison regime, especially among women deprived of their liberty who should not be exposed to greater vulnerabilities by that of'made the law, made the trap'. There is much to discuss, it is true, so let us talk, and above all let us listen. It is clear that any extension of rights can be an open door to fraud, but such law fraud cannot be an excuse not to advance in the social and legal state in which we all want to live. We have joined this initiative and its debate because we believe it is a good starting point. If you consider it this way, from now on we will be able to complement and amend the articulation to deal with transphobia without neglecting the safe and empowering spaces won by and for women after years of struggle. The Machist Violence Act itself is a clear example and, therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the abuser offender cannot benefit from gender self-determination to get rid of the weight of the law, as stated in article 14. It is quite clear from the explanatory statement that the proposal calls for some of the recommendations coming from the European Court of Human Rights concerning the registrar's correction, which is the exclusive competence of the State, to be incorporated into Spanish law. It is recalled that the European Convention states that the right to gender identity is a manifestation of the right to privacy. In 2018, an instruction was approved for the Civil Registry in this regard, which is intended to be extended from this trans law. The registration should be of the name and gender and not of the name and sex, as at present. On the other hand, Catalonia has adopted different laws in favour of effective equality between men and women or of equal treatment with respect to members of the LGBT and trans collective, so it will be necessary to ensure that there is no legal insecurity or competitive invasion in the processing of this law which is now subject to consideration. We understand the challenge ahead. Only a few countries have worked on this issue, which is outside the comfort sphere. This country has often been a pioneer in social regulation, and this is a new opportunity to show the world that we have a mature society, able to debate to build an environment favourable to as many citizens as possible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Today, the Congress of Deputies comes up with a law that basically has to do with equality, with which all Spaniards are, de facto, the same at all times in our daily lives. Basically, it is a law so that trans people can be who they are without having to ask permission, without having to put their dignity, their physical integrity or their lives at risk, and without having to choose between pretending to be someone they are not or marginality. And we are not talking about symbolic rights or things, let's say, identities, we are talking about a collective that has between 85 and 90% unemployment, that has much worse mental health numbers and that has much lower life expectancy. And this isn't just data. We have invited a companion - a trans woman from More Country - to help me think a little bit about the intervention, and it turns out she has had difficulty getting in, because in the DNI still says she is a person who is no longer. You can say: well, this is a detail, because in the background it is to enter Congress. Now imagine every day. Imagine in the doctor's consultation, imagine in a bureaucratic procedure, imagine in the transport, imagine in a work interview. We're not legislating for a few thousand people, we're trying to legislate what model of society we want. I think I have already mentioned it here, this year it is a hundred years old, a hundred years old, of the birth of John Rawls - it was a liberal, but indeed - which spoke of a method to determine which would be a just society: one in which we did not know what position we were going to touch, a just society is the one that we decided without knowing what position we are going to touch. Many of those who are going to vote against are not trans. I am going to ask you to vote and legislate as if you were to have a trans child: only and exclusively with the will that you have the same rights since your birth that you have and that I have. Those who today are going to vote against it are very likely that forty years ago they opposed the Divorce Act, and forty years later they use it, and I am convinced that they are ashamed of having been against it. Fifteen years ago they opposed the Law of Equal Marriage, and today some important leaders of the People's Party - right? - marry in accordance with the Law of Equal Marriage, and I am convinced that they are ashamed of having been against it. Believe me, it's gonna happen again. Soon they will be ashamed of having voted against it, because those who oppose progress in rights are always ashamed. I guess you do because you think this law threatens someone's rights. What right is threatened because a person is called by his or her name at the doctor's appointment? What right is threatened by the freedom of trans people not to be treated as if they were ill? Rights do not compete, freedoms are added and helped. This law comes to Congress thanks to the fact that there have been groups that have persevered, that have endured, that have insisted, that have done their work and that have pushed us, and we want to thank them, and also thanks to the initiative of many political forces. This law is the initiative of More Country, but it is also the initiative of the CUP, it is the initiative of Esquerra Republicana, it is the initiative of Compromís, it is the initiative of Junts, it is the initiative of New Canarias. And we have to ask the Socialist Party to vote in favour. I have no pain in recognizing that a good part of the advances in rights and freedoms in Spain bear the stamp of the Socialist Party. Precisely because of that and precisely because of that path, you can't profile yourselves this time. You have to allow this law to move forward, you have to allow this law to be discussed. I know there are still some differences, but they are discussed in the Congress of Deputies, we remember them here, we improve them and they move on. You have often asked us to support real decrees in which we do not agree at all, but you have told us: support them, then treat them as a law. In just correspondence, do not block this law, do not profile. Support this law and live up to all the advances in rights and freedoms that have been made. And to the opponents of equality, those who are going to vote against, look: it is possible that you today fall the law, and you are not going to win anything. If you guys break the law today, you're gonna get out of here without having won you even one more right. They will have gained some time, which will be a few more months of suffering, humiliation or pain for trans people. That's a miserable victory. There will be trans law, you will not lose a single right and Spain will be a better country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u10	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Finally, also by the Plural Parliamentary Group, and to present this initiative, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u11	Thank you very much, President. Margarida Borràs was executed in the market square of Valencia on July 28, 1460. She was exposed to public mockery and hanged in the city's busiest square. Once hung, he was torn from his underwear to publicly expose his male genitals. Last act of the mockery to which he was subjected. Their crime was not only to be born into a male body, their crime was to publicly express their sexual and gender identity. His crime was trying to be. It is a fragment of Monica Oltra's article, Right to be. That is why, so that people could be, the Valencian Courts passed in 2017 the Law After, one of the most avant-garde in Europe, with the votes in favour of Compromís, Podemos, but Citizens and the Socialist Party as well. Only the PP was left out, which is always left out of progress. But there is a need for a state framework, and since the Government has not just introduced this law, six parties have decided to introduce the law so that it can be dealt with, because that is what it is all about: dealing, that we can discuss, that we can agree on the differences in order to be able to legislate in favour of a collective that suffers from structural ill-treatment on a daily basis. The question is: will the PSOE be added to those we want to advance or will the Poncio Pilates vote? Years ago I received a visit to my office. She told me the story of Daniela, a girl no one wanted to see because everyone was committed to being a child, Daniel; a girl who wanted to be a fairy and put Alicia's costume in the country of wonders and who met with rejection, misunderstanding and insults. And also the story of her mother, her personal fears, her rejections in religious school, her personal, family struggle, in her surroundings until she could utter the magic word: Daughter, Daniela. When his story ended, I was moved. I understood Daniela and her mother, all the Danielas and the Danieles of the world, and all their mothers and fathers. That day I pledge that all people could be who they are, and today I am proud to present and vote in favour of a trans bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u12	Mr. Baldoví, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, do not allow by your vote the suffering of a child or a girl, of a young person for simply wanting to be what it is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Méndez Monasterio.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill that you bring us to this House this afternoon does not affect transgender reality and has nothing to do with the recognition of your rights. This law is not going to solve all the suffering that really exists and that you have also reported this afternoon, because this proposal of law, which violates various precepts of our Constitution, does not aim at the rights of transsexual persons, aims at the recognition of the right to gender identity, to self-determination without any scientific basis and against biology, because it denies the existence of the asexual and binary nature, with the adverse effects that this entails. What about legal certainty? Because it is possible to register the name and sex desired in the register by a simple manifestation of will, without any medical certificate, which gives rise to rights and obligations. It is also an attack on the health of minors, who can be hormonal if that is their wish from the age of nine, causing damage, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely irreversible. It is an attack on the fatherly authority of the parents, who may lose it if they refuse to do so, but it also harms women. In short, it considers that the simple desire is the constitutive of sexual identity, denying even what the WHO says, that transsexuality is a condition relative to health, a gender incongruity that generates discomfort and suffering to the sufferer. Ladies and gentlemen, all you do is use suffering for your political interests. [[Applauds]] Do you seriously believe - seriously believe - that the mere change in the record, that the manifestation of a desire can change reality or can change biology? Honestly, do you believe that? They use people for their political interests, collect them in order of their sexual orientation, stigmatize them - you do stigmatize them - and incite hatred between them. In VOX, ladies and gentlemen, no one is stigmatized. In our ranks, everyone is treated as a person, recognizing their inherent dignity regardless of their sexual status. And, of course, we do support adults who have gender dysphoria, of course we support them; that is, we do not consent to indoctrinating children and confusing them by convincing them that they can choose their sex voluntarily without any consequence, that they can decide whether they are boys or girls, because that is their perverse goal. We do not allow you to experiment with them, because hormonal treatments in minors are experimental, ladies and gentlemen, they are experimental! This has been considered in a recent UK judgment following Keira Bell's claim, which also warned that minors are rarely able to give genuinely informed consent in the case of interventions with profound and lifelong consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to be a judge to know that this is the case. This law authorizes the use of puberty blockers from the age of nine, on a path of difficult return. Meanwhile, in Sweden, the use of puberty blockers for children under 16 years of age has recently been discontinued and surgical interventions at that age are avoided. However, this law encourages hormoneization and the request for a change of sex, a decision that can perhaps be reached by a simple confusion inherent in adolescence without any diagnosis. Treatment is encouraged in a single sense and psychological support is denied. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not defending the right of transgender persons; that, ladies and gentlemen, should be a crime and violate article 15 of our Constitution, which enshrines the right to the physical integrity of all persons and above all of minors. [[Applauds]] The American Association of Pediatricians and also important associations in Spain that are made up of groups of doctors state in a report that between 85 and 90% of the boys and girls who in puberty have expressed confusion regarding their sex at the end of puberty are reaffirmed in their biological sex - between 85 and 90%-. So, ladies and gentlemen, of that irreversible damage that has occurred in some minors, who will be the culprit? You will be, but no one will hold you accountable. This law is inspired by those that already exist in various autonomous communities, approved before VOX reached the institutions. I suppose the People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal, because this law is the same, ladies and gentlemen; it is the same one that you promoted and approved in Madrid in 2016, and in Murcia; as is the current bill of Castile and León and other autonomous communities. They are laws that are in force and contain the recognition of the right to a freely manifested gender identity and that under no circumstances will it be required to be accredited by psychological or medical report. They gather, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, each and every one of the postulates contained in this text, each and every one of them. But their autonomous laws, ladies and gentlemen, are far more harmful than this; they are far more harmful because they have not passed through any filters of the Constitutional Court, since then there was no VOX in the institutions. Far from it: they violate various fundamental rights; they impose content in the schools, ladies and gentlemen; they talk about reversal of the burden of proof in relation to complaints of discrimination; they prevent dissension in a perfectly coined plan; all this under fines of up to 45 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws violate various fundamental rights: the violation of the right to equality, the violation of the rights to physical and moral integrity and to health protection, the violation of the rights to freedom of expression and the dissemination of thought, the violation of the rights to presumption of innocence and legal certainty, the violation of the principle of legality and typicality of administrative violations and sanctions, the violation of the right to education, the violation of the right to ideological and religious freedom in relation to the right to conscientious objection. Because, ladies and gentlemen, with those laws, if a father refuses to hormoneize his children, they can make him available to the courts. These are the laws of the People's Party, so I don't know what they'll do this afternoon, but they only have two ways: either to vote yes to this law or to repeal the autonomous laws. [[Applauds]] Only VOX has objected to recognizing that a person can self-determine their sex throughout this time, only VOX has denounced the perverse effects of these laws and you, now in the Madrid Community with VOX, can do so and if you do not, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to explain it. Sooner or later, we who are convinced of what we stand for, and we will. This proposal for a law, which although it is not presented by Podemos, is draft by the Minister of Equality, also harms women. Let me mention a few simple examples. How would this affect your admired Gender Violence Act? Because an abusive man could say he feels like a woman and not be tried for that crime, obviously. What would happen in prisons - where there have already been cases of sexual assault on biological women by trans women in foster homes? The Times documented seven cases between 2008 and 2010. Only in the United Kingdom, among them, did the case of Karen White, a convicted man who, perceiving a woman, sexually assaulted seven women in prison. How will it affect, ladies and gentlemen, participation in events and sports competitions? The incorporation of trans women into various female sports specialties is disturbing them. The transsexual athlete Mary Gregory easily became an absolute dominant of the U.S. Halterophilia winning nine tests and breaking four records in a few months before being disqualified by the federation in 2019 for believing that she was not really a woman. Are you, ladies and gentlemen, going to be able to prevent a man from declaring himself a woman to have access to specific subsidies or reserved quotas or any other measure of positive discrimination? But on what do they also support this unequal treatment? This is also contrary to article 23, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, which states that citizens have the right to equal access to public service. These are not just questions that we ask ourselves, since the Socialist Party also collects them in its reasonings in an argument that speaks of arguments against theories that deny women's reality. In this argumentary, signed by Carmen Calvo and many others, it is said that sex is a biological fact and refers to the bodily, biological and physiological characteristics that define and differentiate humans as men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the outcome of a radical feminism that has gone out of hand. Equality before the law was achieved in Spain a long time ago - article 14 of the Constitution - but you, in your delirium of equalizing both sexes, in your delirium of advancing against the nature of the being of men and women, denying their specificities, among them, their obsession with breaking up with motherhood, in that crazy fixation on gender and female and male roles, have made the identity of women fade, because to introduce their policies you have used and relied on gender ideology, and I say this but the most recognized theories of Spanish feminism. Amalia Valcárcel and Alicia Millares said: we accept gender pragmatically because it was easier to place feminist policies in the academy and in Latin American and Spanish meetings under the label of gender. We're pulling the whole feminist agenda, but the problem got out of hand. Well, this is the consequence of a feminism that has deconstructed femininity, family, motherhood until it has deconstructed its own identity. It is no wonder that the equality minister did not know what a woman is to answer our group's questions, and it is in this race of human denaturalization that the radical left is engaged by conviction and the PP by lack of conviction, when they find that the self-determination of the human being fundamentally harms the woman. Ladies and gentlemen, biology does matter. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u17	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was not going to intervene, but a friend of the trans collective asked me if VOX would respond; so I have taken some note of your intervention and I will try to respond to two or three things. The first is that I am surprised that you care so much about some boys and girls and so little about others, especially the foreign boys and girls who are helpless and abandoned that you are criminalizing in absolutely miserable posters on the Madrid Metro. I'm gonna start answering them. You are 52, the group of the ultra-right brave, because there is another that is not so brave, that will vote exactly the same as you and does not dare to say exactly the same as you, thinking the same as you, the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Then they vote differently! You're 52. How many of you are Catholics or practicing Catholics? A lot. Raise your hand. [[Protests]] A lot, a lot. They're vangling. Sounds good to me. In fact, they claim to be a traditionalist party, close to the Catholic Church. Therefore, you believe in snakes that speak; therefore, you believe in doves that are pregnant; therefore, you believe that women come from a man's rib; therefore, you believe that if all of us behave badly a rain of fire will come and burn us all. [[applause]] Do you believe in that and come here to give lessons of normality? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u19	Do you come here to give lessons in normality and indoctrination? Really? We've moved from beating homosexuals to imposing their law. This was said by Espinosa de los Monteros, her spokesman. After the words of hatred come the acts of hatred. You criminalize those who are in the queues of hunger, along with the cowardly right. You are criminalizing children who are helpless and abandoned. It is logical that you also criminalize those who do not feel in your body in a way like all of you. It's normal. We do not believe in the extension of civil rights because we hate it, as you say. We believe because we love, because we love each other. In fact, love is intrinsic to the human being. If you are incapable of loving, you are simply inhuman. [[Applauds]] Three, last one. Let's see if you understand, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party. A trans woman is one, a trans woman is big and a trans woman is free. Let's see if they understand that. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u21	I've been wondering if I'd come down or stay in my seat because I'm going to be very brief. You define as gender ideology a self-destructive and socially toxic metamorphosis of feminism. I believe that with these words what you do is define yourself, because the only socially toxic thing is your speech. You have come here to talk about a number of points that are not even part of the text of the law we are talking about today. They talk about protecting women and children, and if they want to do so, what they have to do is to protect their fundamental rights. They have said that it is an attack on the Constitution, when I myself, a few minutes ago, reminded them that the Constitutional Court, for example, in its judgment 99/2019 says that leaving minors out of the right to self-determination sexually deprives them of the free development of their personality, and I understand that for you it must be important to develop the personality of our children, young people and adolescents, in general. You have said that we are using people for our political interests. Well, no, Your Honor, what we're doing is we're using politics to help people. They have accused us, once again, of indoctrining children with a perverse goal, as if we were with horns and tails, and what we are doing, precisely, is the opposite: to protect the mental health of children and young people. I didn't want to take it out - I have very little time left - but just this noon I made a call to a man whom I met as a child and who wanted to be a child. Today I said to him: I am glad, because from politics I can understand you better today and I can try to help other children who have gone through the situation that you have experienced. He explained to me that his desire to be a man, to have a man's body had nothing to do with stereotypes; I say this for those who insist on the problem of the erasure of women. No, it is not a question of stereotypes, it is a question of deep feeling and, therefore, it is said there. There are controversial points. We want to face the debate, we think that the debate involves making amendments and corrections to the text of the law, and we are open to that, but above all thinking about human rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mrs. de VOX, you don't mind this law, you guys, what bothers you is that there are trans people. It's not the law, it bothers you that you exist. It's not that you have a plan for them to cease to exist, what you want is for them to exist in silence, suffering, ashamed and having a bad day to day. That is why you come up here and say - eye - that you are actually very understanding with suffering because it turns out that you have gender dysphoria, that is, that you come up here to say that you are sick. When a deputy comes up here and calls many sick people, it turns out that in their neighbourhoods, in their jobs, in their schools or in their institutes there are people who insult them, harass them and tell them that they are sick. You should be very careful with the words you say, because then they turn into violence and become suffering for thousands of Spaniards just because they are what they are. You don't have to tell them what they are, we're not talking about disabled people. You say: people who are confused about what they are; they know perfectly what they are, there is only one difference between you and me, and it is that to them the law obliges them to demonstrate permanently what they are and to you and me no one obliges us. If you come up here and say that trans children are experiments, how do you think they're going to treat you in your class later? If you say it's experiments, how do you think it's gonna happen after your families? You're a congresswoman who comes up here and has the little shame of calling experiments on trans children. What do you think, that it helps freedom and equality or that it helps violence and hatred? Look at you, the law may not pass today. They're going to lose this battle. The only sick are the ones who hate and are going to lose this battle. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u24	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Méndez Monastery. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been one of the arguments, of the three people who have now gone up to the atrium, that have made disappear the arguments that we have used since VOX to be against this proposed law, none. [[Applauds]] The first to intervene is Mr Rufián. Mr. Rufián has begun to confuse and talk about religion, Catholics, apostolics and Romans. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not what's going on, what's going on is that you're very confused. You confuse religion, which belongs to the intimate life of people, with the nature of things, and they are two very different things. [[Applauds]] Because, Your Honor, you make theater when you come up here, but you don't give any reason. He starts talking nonsense, like we're criminalized, and he starts messing with our spokesperson. Look, we don't criminalize, we say it's a barbarity to let children across our borders who are then left by the mafias in a state that is absolutely irrecoverable. And if not, talk to the associations that are taking care of those children, who say they are going through such problems, through such horrific activities of the mafias that many of them are unrecoverable. [[applause]] Talk to the people who treat them! Those kids didn't have to go through that barbarity. That's what we're defending and you're twisting. Mr. Rufián, you have alluded to our arguments and you have used these people, people who are really suffering, and I don't care what they call them or don't call them, or whether they start discussing whether it's gender dysphoria is a gender incongruity. Look at you, it's just that we don't care. Mr Errejon, that problem, that discussion you have with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We don't get into those issues, we don't get in. [[Applauds]] We go to the reality of things, ladies and gentlemen, and we go to the professionals. The World Health Organization says it is a gender incongruity, which is a health-dependent issue. We respond to what international organizations or professionals say about this. What we do defend is the reality of transgender people. And by the way, in this law they don't even define what transsexuality is and they talk about trans people. Ladies and gentlemen, you have come up here and have refuted the unconstitutionality that I argued. Look, this law has not yet gone to the Constitutional Court, so you cannot say that a ruling of the Constitutional Court that was not analysing this law is or is not unconstitutional. He says you use politics to help people. You can't use politics to help anyone if you don't go to the reality of things. Mr. Errejón says we didn't want them to exist. Look, I don't know if you'll have friends or not who have - I don't care what they call it - gender dysphoria or gender incongruity. We have people in our ranks whom we treat as people and whom we do not stigmatize. [[Applauds]] It's gone bad for you, it's gone bad for you. You were prepared to accuse VOX that we called transgender people sick; the other day President Sánchez did. It is you, it is you who argue about that dysphoria or not gender dysphoria; we rise on that, Mr Errejón. But it has gone wrong, because we do not say that transsexual people are sick; we do not say, you say. [[Applauds]] You wanted to put it in my mouth, because that's your manipulation, that's your strategy, which we call children experiments. Look, we don't call children experiments. And have a little humility, because it's not us, it's the British Executive, it's the Australians, it's the Americans, they're professionals who've studied this for years, and they say those treatments are experimental treatments. And I am talking about experimental treatments, Mr Errejón, without any evidence and, moreover, which can have many harmful consequences. We're talking experimental treatments. You're the ones who use minors as experiments. You are the ones who use minors as experiments for their politics, to make politics, to make perverse politics... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u26	Mrs. Méndez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u27	I believe that with this I have responded sufficiently to the things that have been said. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Méndez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u29	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Yesterday was the day against phobia and today we had the opportunity to start working on a trans law. In fact, different parliamentary groups entered the text, before which we have considered the inoperation of the Ministry of Equality - and we are glad to see the minister here today - and the systematic blockade of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of a law that opens rights. The law is necessary and at the same time complex. Today we had the opportunity to start thinking about how to write gender self-determination, what happens to trans minors or if we made a law or more than one, it was today's opportunity, and we were willing to discuss it. In fact, we are little friends with the gender essentialism that patriarchy brings to us. But the PSOE has decided to block the processing. And ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, today the abstention is to vote no. Today the abstention is to go with these, with those who consider trans people sick; yes, you have said so. [[pointing to the right side of the Chamber]] Today the abstention is to go with the People's Party and with VOX to tell trans people that they are a problem. [[Applauds]] I don't know how you guys are gonna do next July 28th, Pride Day, I don't know if it's gonna suit you with a president's tweet to go to the demonstrations and end what's called pinkwashing. Let's remember, pinkwashing: face-washing of states and companies that make LGTBI-friendly statements - they could be called - but without concrete policies. That today this law does not pass is a problem on three essential issues: firstly, we are sending the message that between feminist movements and LGBT communities and collectives there are problems, and that is not true; secondly, we are giving wings to the nonsense that has just been explained by the extreme right and we are sending a message as if trans people were a problem, and they are not, and thirdly, we are sending the message that the rights of one person are lacking in the rights of the other, and that is not true. In fact, apart from not being true, it's perverse. Rights always add up, ladies and gentlemen. Rights always add up, and the rights of trans people are human rights. Let them not forget this, that today an initiative will be blocked here that advocates and bets on human rights. [[Applauds]] And we want bread, but we also want roses. And, in the face of their hatred, yes, our policy of desire and happiness, and proud we are, because this law is a question of social justice but it is also a question of memory, memory for which fear did not end with the end of social danger; memory for those who played the body in Stonewall, but also in every town and in every city of the Catalan countries and also of this Spanish State, which they so much say they want; memory for Sonia Rescalvo, murdered in Barcelona for being trans; memory for the Pastora, who went to the maquis being trans; memory and law for every insult and every silence in every school yard; memory and law for every refusal to offer work, and memory and law for every pronunciation of the name of who no longer exists. Trans Memory is the memory of the struggle for mere existence, and that no one is confused: the feminism of all, which has as its horizon the collective dignity, does not fit in any text. There will be trans law, no matter who weighs it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u31	Madam President, Minister, Mr Guztioi. After overcoming a number of obstacles, which cannot be understood from a perspective of respect for the rights of trans persons, we find ourselves at the moment of consideration for the processing of this proposed law for the real and effective equality of trans persons. We consider it absolutely necessary to have a law guaranteeing the rights of transgender people, a collective that has suffered throughout history and is also currently suffering from various forms of discrimination in the different areas in which it carries out its vital projects, whether in education, health care, work, leisure or the family. In fact, it is the most vulnerable group within the term LGTB, especially if we consider other variables such as race, social class, functional diversity, etc. During the pandemic we are seeing that it is a group strongly punished, invisible, persecuted, discriminated against and excluded. We have no doubt that we owe them a reparation, as well as tools and means, including the legal ones, so that justice can be realized for the whole collective. That this law overcomes this process of consideration is therefore essential in order to realize the path of progress in rights, to solve the current situation and to amend the existing debt. During these months we have been witnessing strongly ideological debates, which, instead of bringing light and concreteness to the recognition of the rights of transgender people, are posing a serious obstacle to knowing and recognizing diversity; diversity in capitals, ladies and gentlemen, diversity in ways of being, of living and expressing oneself as women and men, beyond binary approaches and taking into account the intersexuality that dwells in all of us. So far we have witnessed an opaque debate, directed and instrumentalized in favour of political interests both of the extreme right and of certain sectors which call themselves left and feminists and which, instead of advancing equality and respect, seek to perpetuate discrimination, one and the other questioning the rights of collectives who only ask to be able to live on equal terms with all others. To all of them, and to all of them, who strive to prevent trans people from having rights and being respected, I encourage them to go to Sexology as an interactive sex science. They will find in it the answers and common sense that is lacking in all this debate that is taking place in society. The latter is what is needed to address this law: justice, solidarity and common sense, because identity cannot be imposed. Transgender women do not choose to be women, they know they are women; transgender men do not choose to be men, they know they are men; and so everyone else: we know that we are, just like those people who are not transgender, the same, and therefore must have their rights recognized, just like the rest, the same, and this is the basis. To this end, this law that we have here today must guarantee freedom to manage its decisions regarding the expression of its identity, because today we do not debate whether trans people have rights or not or whether they can or cannot have freedom, security and justice in all areas of their life; no, today we discuss how to recognize these rights by law and, above all, how to enforce them. This is today's debate, because nobody - and I repeat, nobody - in this House is going to tell trans people who they are or not, nobody is going to tell them what they want or can or should be. Today, we simply respect them and discuss the best measures to protect them. And we hope that all the groups we believe in will set an example and act accordingly. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I am referring to you to demand that you put aside your blockade and join the trans collectives in their efforts to recognize and protect their rights, because we cannot talk about respect, rights and freedom for the trans people and are blocking over and over again the realization of an integral and specific law for the trans people, out of respect for them and because they have paid a very clear toll simply because they are who they are. As seen yesterday, transphobia exists in the little details of the day-to-day, and in our hands is putting the legal framework that helps to overcome it. Promoting the rights of a discriminated group is a basic question of justice and in no case reduces the rights of the rest; on the contrary, it only makes us more free. He's not going against anyone, he's going against everyone. It is time to end the dilation of the process of legal realization, to question aspects already overcome years ago in autonomous laws and other states in our environment. It is not worth, but no, it is time to bet and decide which side you are on: either with the right and the regression in rights and freedoms or with whom you want, we want to advance in equality. The adoption of this law is a step further along the way, but much remains to be done to ensure that trans people live better, freer, closer to good living, because, ultimately, that is what it is all about, regardless of our sexual status, that we live with rights, without being questioned, without being discriminated against or attacked. How hard is it to understand this? Let us not forget, as we have already repeated as active and passive, that early sexual education for all pupils, as well as for society at large, will help in this process of real recognition of diversity, of the rights of all people and in overcoming the homophobia and transphobia that this society suffers in the 21st century. I'm on my way. We hope today that no one will frustrate the historic opportunity to move forward. To all of them, to all trans collectives, thank you, thank you for all the struggle you have waged for so long. Thanks to all of you, sooner or later this law will be. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. I begin my speech by announcing that we will vote in favour of this bill tabled by different parliamentary groups, as the Hiberna Government's proposal in the Moncloa freezer, neglecting its obligation and responsibility to trans people. It is therefore a duty and obligation to meet the historical demand that the public authorities and we as legislators have with trans people, people who have lived and suffered from an injustice, discrimination and enormous vulnerability. We believe that it is important to take this law into consideration, although we do not fully agree with everything that is proposed in it or in all its contents. That is why it is important to disaggregate and work on it once it has been taken into consideration and to dispel the elements that are neither of competence nor correspond to a state law. We would also like to point out that, by democratically accepting the position contrary to this proposal of law of some political formations - those of others or the question, because they are from another planet - we do not, however, understand and we find it difficult to share the arguments of some group and of a certain conception of feminism, which, in our view, seek to protect and restrict the self-determination of the individual sense of people towards their gender and sex. It really seems to us that they are intolerant and annihilated and result in a contradiction, because feminism cannot be exclusionary or negationist of other women. That's not feminism, that's imposition. [[Applauds]] What if we all did the same thing with the propositions of law or the royal decrees that you bring or with what you are going to do? Do you think trans people deserve this confrontation? With the arguments that you have given, it is as if, for example, we question the Law on Gender Violence for any false allegations that may exist. I think they're wrong, and that's not gonna be a good way to go. Equality of all persons is the fundamental pillar on which all universally recognized human rights are based. In view of this, democratic systems are not limited only to formal recognition, but include constitutional formulas for what is called motor action. According to the Yogyakarta Principles of 2007, gender identity refers to the internal and individual experience of gender as the person feels deeply, which may or may not correspond to the sex assigned at the time of birth, including the personal experience of the body. While these principles do not have a binding legal nature, they are of course the basic standard for guiding interpretation and legislating from it. The foundation in our western environment of this basic right to equality is embodied in Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in Title III thereof; the Court of Justice of the European Union has also ruled on this issue and we also have the 2012 directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. We do not doubt, therefore, that the law for the real and effective equality of trans persons is timely and necessary for several reasons: the first, because the current rule, the current one, has become obsolete and not according to the needs of trans persons, and also because transsexual persons have no problem with their sexual identity, it is the others who have a problem with the identity or gender of trans persons. Maybe the dysphoria we have the others, not them. [[Applauds]] This year, the European Council also identified self-determination as the best instrument for determining gender. It is the same as with peoples, who for their self-determination need no one's tutelage or show any dysphoria. Free will is the central axis, just like with people. [[Applauds]] With this proposal of law, transsexuality is depatologized, as the World Health Organization has been asking, because it introduces in its Title II - therefore we also agree - the great novelty that is the registrar rectification of the mention concerning the sex of people, something that has been explained and in what has already been deepened, so I will not insist on it any more. However, as we said, perhaps we are not in favour of all the elements, although we understand that it is important that it can be dealt with precisely so that on those issues that have edges - such as this point that I have pointed out about how it should be, and so on - we can disagree, but from its consideration. All these legislative initiatives to ensure the effective enjoyment of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of all citizens have always had and will have the support of the Basque Group both here and within the framework of Euskadi, and for this it is only necessary to see all those issues that we have legislated in this area in Euskadi. We have Law 14/2012, of 28 June, on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity, which was corrected in 2019 in the Basque Parliament and adopted a strong position in favour of the depathology of transsexuality, eliminating the need for a medical diagnosis, etc. But also in 2019 it was decided that transsexuality - and thus says the legal text of the Basque Parliament - can only be known through listening to what the person freely expresses and, like sexual identity, cannot be diagnosed: it is not a disease, a disorder or an anomaly, but it is part of human diversity. Accordingly, for the purposes of this Act, the consideration of a transgender person shall be governed by the right to self-determination of the sexual identity. I have to finish. There are some issues that we believe fall within the scope of autonomous competence and this law does not respect it. Therefore, if it is dealt with, we will fight it, because we will defend the autonomy that each autonomous community - in this case, Euskadi - has to legislate matters that are not the competence of the State. Finally, I just want to insist that we support it because trans people deserve this law and something better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, being in this Chamber accompanying society in what is the conquest of new rights is an honour and a privilege for me; rights that must never be countered by one part of the citizenry to another, as progress on equal terms is progress by all. This has to be made clear to us throughout the Chamber. From this very rostrum it has been stated on many occasions that discourses must be worked forward in the recognition of the rights of vulnerable individuals and groups, but we must do something else: to take into account the reality of these vulnerable groups, to legislate and to respond to social realities. We have an obligation to live up to our Constitution, which obliges the public authorities to work for real and effective equality. We need to create a state regulatory framework that protects all trans people, because not all territories have trans legislation. Let us think of equality and fundamental rights and generate a normative umbrella, which is what is currently needed in the recognition of rights. Transgender people are one of the most rejected and discriminated against groups in our country, and real progress in equality will only occur if we are able to legislate courageously and respond to their situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 four out of ten trans people have been insulted, assaulted or harassed and 85% of trans people are unemployed or up to half of trans people avoid giving their hand to their partner for fear of what may happen to them. That's how trans people live. And why? Out of stigma, out of prejudice, we have to keep fighting. What is clear to us with this data? That our country needs a general framework, a trans law. Of course he needs a trans law! What's surprising us? That the Socialist Party does not want to support this consideration. Aren't you the ones who say that they defend in a progressive way the equality of the LGBT, the equality of the trans people? Well, don't profile yourselves, give me the size, ladies and gentlemen, and support this proposal. That you are against the conservative party and the far right seems entirely normal to me, I am not surprised, but you are not in a firm and courageous way in this defense. We must combat stigma, prejudice towards people by embracing a relevant word, which is freedom. Citizens defend freedom, with capitals: we defend it in euthanasia and we will defend it today by supporting this proposal. That is to defend freedom, with capitals, and defend it so that transgender people can live their gender identity as they please, ladies and gentlemen, as they please. Unfortunately, the internal struggles we have seen in the Government are not allowing us today to have a project on the part of the Government, as it should be. I want to make a point from this rostrum: the feminist struggle cannot be faced with the struggle for equality of trans people. It is a basic mistake for anyone who has travelled in the defense of equality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not fall into old speeches that end up deepening the inequalities that you so much point out and denounce. Feminism is an inclusive struggle. If transgender people advance in the recognition and exercise of rights, that favors society as a whole. The fight of trans women is my struggle as a feminist woman. [[Applauds]] We cannot flaunt this cause, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the speeches which stigmatise, which they point out, to sow doubts about one of the most vulnerable groups in our society to return. I am referring to those speeches that justify the rejection of this law with arguments that equate gender change to a shirt change, ladies and gentlemen. The only thing that proves this is the lack of awareness of the hard process that transgender people have to go through in times of transition and reallocation. As a feminist I was saddened to hear some of the words of our vice president, Mrs Calvo, when she said publicly that she was concerned about the idea that gender could be chosen without more than mere will or desire, risking - she said - the criteria of the identity of the rest of the forty-seven million Spaniards. What's that supposed to mean? Discrimination, historical discrimination, which is what this group is experiencing. I invite you to see what is the result of the implementation of laws such as the one we are considering today in other countries, such as Malta, Norway, Portugal, Denmark, Belgium or Luxembourg. Look at this legal framework, I invite you to listen to the European Equality Commissioner when she makes it clear that there has been no abuse of this legislation on gender self-determination in Malta. You don't have to see ghosts where there aren't ghosts. That is why I also ask the Socialist Party to be on the right side, to vote in favour of this consideration. The Council of Europe itself has urged all States to develop rapid, transparent, accessible procedures to change the name and gender of trans persons in their certificates and documents. The European Court itself recently appeared in this case in 2021. So let's move on. From Citizens we will always be at the side of freedom, equality of all people, of all those who, by their sex, gender, sexual orientation, identity, gender expression or sexual characteristics, suffer any form of rejection, discrimination or violence. Therefore, what I want is for this project to come forward, that we all stick together to make it good, guarantee, rigorous, because clearly we have to make changes, we have to improve it, but if we are not all united in this cause at the end those who lose are society and transgender people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I don't know about you, but these days you have forced me to remember a lot, even with pomp, with nostalgia, with a strange balance of successes and failures what was 15-M. Most analysts back then and now we've never seen them through the squares. Impugnation and desire. I borrow these words from the writer Laura Casielles to think about what the 15-M was and to think that since we entered, in January 2016, many of us have attended the challenge that was on the street and we have seen it within the House; a challenge that ended up driving the government to the most corrupt party in Europe, according to the courts, and I want us to play with this coalition government, from which a social shield has been put in place to stop evictions and supply courts, from which labour reform is repealed, from which the sexual freedom of all people is defended. And there, in the desire and goal of being in our laws a better and fairer society, is where the law that we are discussing today comes in. A text that has history and struggle behind many trans women and trans men, people of the LGBTBI community; a text that has been fought and defended by Unidad Podemos in its program, in the government agreement and from the Ministry of Equality. Today the answer to the desire to be a better and fairer society, a society that knows and is consistent with human rights, can only be one, and it is the only desire that is at stake here, because the existence of trans people, their reality, their life, is a fact, it is no desire, it is not a question of will. Here the only will that concerns these 350 ladies and gentlemen is to see whether those lives that exist are going to be with rights or without rights, as they are so far. [[Applauds]] But it also turns out that as a people we are already a proud society of our diversity, fundamentally proud of our people, their identities and their feelings, and defender of freedoms. And we are because we have learned along the way, because we have been taught by so many companions, because feminism we have done with trans women, because they have been there side by side when we defended the right to abortion and to equal marriage. Who didn't see them perhaps is because he wasn't in those demonstrations, because progress is made when those of us down below join us in the face of the power that wants us to be quiet, that wants us to be precarious, that wants us to be apart, that wants us to be sad. We have learned, and I would like to think that enough, but then I doubt it when I hear it in this House according to what speeches. In this again - and although the times seem to mark the opposite, that one must have an opinion above all-I believe that above all it would be to listen to those who embody that struggle, that experience, that need to be recognized in the law, to be fairly treated, to be and have a citizenship of full right because their lives matter; that need that today no trans women or men have expressed in this House. We're talking about people who don't live that reality. Trans lives do matter. To say this means that they matter and are citizens of their own right; that they matter and cannot suffer discrimination of any kind, whether economic, social, labour, educational or administrative, because of the merofactus of being. Trans lives do matter, it means recognizing and defending the human rights of all people. Someone in his hate speech said that international treaties had to be complied with. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Here are: Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, articles 2 and 12; UN Human Rights Council resolution 17/19 of 2011; UN Human Rights Council resolutions 27 and 32 of 2014; Resolution 32/2 of 2016; Resolution 41/18 of 2019; General Comment 2 of 2008; General Comment 20 of 2009; Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights; ECRI recommendations; Yogyakarta principles of 2006 and its revision of 2017; European Parliament resolutions; European Union strategies 2015, 2020 and 2025 - to name just a few, because there are a few more -. [[Applauds]] We're not born feminists. We came to that thought, after much life learning, listening. In feminism, as in the rights of trans people, I have many people to thank them for what I have been able to learn, patience and endurance, arrojo, pedagogy. Think about it for a moment, it has to be very difficult for your life, your identity, who you are, to be questioned all the time and also one has to draw strength to be doing pedagogy, and they have done it, to be educating, and they have done it. Because we have not socialized in a world with parameters that serve us all, serve us very few. Ladies and gentlemen, don't many of you get a little tight on that suit that you're forced to wear, those definitions that you don't incarnate? Those labels don't rub their skin, don't they rub them in the most sensitive? If today we say yes, if today I say yes in favour of taking this text into consideration and its correct and agile processing, it is because we are aware that we are talking about the rights that lead a lifetime by delaying or directly denying, it is for people like Maribel, like Mané, like Aitz De Araneta, like Carla Antonelli, like Mar Cambrollé, it is for having read and because culture achieves that. Many texts have made me see a reality that has nothing to do with mine, but that was at my side and that escaped me, such as Alana Portero's texts, such as what Darío Gael Blanco, Valeria Vegas or Elisabeth Duval writes, or what he writes on the other side of the puddle Camila Sosa, such as the fiction directed by Abril Zamora, the characters to whom Daniela Santiago gives life or the songs of Alicia Ramos. There are many names, there are many lives that matter, that are only demanding in this House that human rights be respected and that there be legislation that recognizes gender self-determination as it is in 12 of the 17 autonomous communities, claiming that they are giving us the option to be better. They only ask us that, giving us the opportunity to have better legislation, to describe our people better institutionally. So I don't want to devote a single word to those who spread hatred, their arguments go into a very cruel bus and stay there. I just want to thank all the people who have fought for this law, who have put their lives on, because they have their lives on it...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u38	Mrs. Fernández, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u39	And I would also like to thank - I conclude, President - Minister Irene Montero who has been defending him, and I know that she will continue to defend him. The trans law will be law and so we will be a little better. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u41	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I wanted to condemn the latest murder that occurred yesterday in Mallorca, which is being investigated as gender-based violence, which claimed the lives of a three-month-old pregnant woman, Guarde Ouchene, 28 years old and dirty seven-year-old Mohamed in the municipality of Sa Pobla. There are no words for so much pain. It is true that there is still a long way to go to achieve a society free of prejudices and stereotypes, free of any discrimination, free of deity, but it is also true that we live in a full democracy, that Spain is a good country to be born and to be a woman, girl, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual or whatever everyone decides to be. It must not be forgotten that in eleven countries of our world there is still justice for those who dare to be free. Turning to the subject before us, we are faced with a proposal for a law which, as has been seen, is accompanied by noise, which has nothing to do with defending the rights of the LGBT collective or transgender people. It is the noise of the left, using people as an electoral weapon - women, vulnerable children - and today it is transsexuals. It is a struggle for power between the PSOE and Podemos, which has nothing to do with more or less rights but with more or less votes. That is why this bill, some say, puts on a stand the members of the Government who wanted to introduce a bill. The real reason, and it has also been said, for this proposal is to mark territory at the gates of the celebration of the Day of Pride. Do you remember the non-law, the yes, to have something to sell on March 8, 2020? Well, it's the same thing. And in the middle of all the noise, there are people. Yesterday afternoon I was talking to a transgender woman, Alexia, who said to me: We don't want to be a bold weapon between each other, we want them to stop using us; we want when a law is passed to be done with maximum legal certainty. Alexia is a transgender woman affiliated with the People's Party, like so many others. In fact, it is in Madrid where there is the first Gender Identity Unit to facilitate the change of sex for transgender people; that is, with a multidisciplinary team of specialists doctors, whom you now want to obviate in any process. Today's debate, although some claim it, is not the property of anyone, it is not of phobias or affiliations, it is of a concrete text that is presented with a concrete procedure. Assessing whether it is the best text for the objective being pursued is our obligation as legislators, because here we do not come to make nice speeches, here we come to make and pass laws. Our obligation is to analyse the legal certainty and consequences of what is passed in this House, which is a law. Few seem to care that it comes as a bill and not as a bill, i.e. without the reports of the Council of State or any other mandatory report. It is a complex law that modifies other regulations, and for which a social and political consensus should be required, but it comes even without a consensus of the Council of Ministers itself, without a consensus of society or of the feminist movement and not even of the whole LGBTI movement or of the IOC. You do not want to listen to lawyers, doctors, endocrines or psychologists, you do not want to listen to anyone, nor do you want this to be a debate from the quiet and - I insist - legal certainty. You pretend that we ignore everything, that we position ourselves today because it is what it touches, because if we are not pointed out by one or the other. We'll see how we fix it tomorrow. This isn't serious. The PSOE cannot be dragged. A few months ago, the PSOE brought us to this House a law on equal treatment and told us that all discrimination will be dealt with there. Is that so? Are we working on this? What's with today's proposal? That is why from my group we will vote that no, because you are going to steal from this Congress the possibility of a calm debate, the possibility of expert appearances for or against, as you did with the Celaá Law. That is why we do not trust, because we do not trust that this is just a consideration to open a debate, which already know how they want to close. We say not to modify through the back door the determined legal concept of sex by gender, without worrying about what happens to those laws that protect us women precisely because of our sex. We will vote that not because we are the only party that has asked the Constitutional Court to rule on this point that is already taking place in other countries, such as what is happening and what we have seen these days in Mexico with the electoral lists. We will vote that not because we do not know - and neither do you - the legal consequences of the new legal concept: parents, mothers and 'edres'; because they take away all the guarantees, especially when it comes to minors and medical matters, with consequences for their health; because they intend to erase the sex category, which is so necessary to legislate and make decisions, and because, once again, they have placed in the focus of controversy, from a completely macho perspective, transgender women. Do not put in the words of this group or teach this group or put in our mouth things that we have not said. We recognize the social and labour discrimination, the intolerable aggressions that so many times suffer from transgender persons, as well as the marginalization, more present in this collective than in any other. We know him and we denounce him, but this law does not go from this, this law does not go from what many of the spokesmen who have preceded me have said from this rostrum. This law does not go further than protection and more rights, because there is no rights or protection without legal certainty, leaving the transgender people unprotected and in a limbo of rights and duties, and that as legislators we cannot consent to. In the fight against discrimination and in real equality and with guarantees you will always find the People's Party as the party of all Spaniards, as President Casado says, live where you live, pray to God that you pray or love here amen. In continuous deception and propaganda, there are others for this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by showing our deep support and solidarity with those who have felt questioned or attacked in a debate that has resulted in speeches that have not been considered. The ultra-fascist of this Parliament has once again shown that it has a problem with human rights. What are you afraid of? Equality? Freedom? [[Rumors]] Stop soiling the name of the feminist movement to defend assumptions. Feminism is quite the opposite of what you represent. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary initiative is in addition to the one initiated by the Government, which has been working for months on legislation that is already very close to reaching the Council of Ministers and Ministers; legislation that has to be agreed with the main social organizations of the LGBT movement and that will extend rights for the LGBT collective and specifically for trans people. Secondly, I want to highlight the work of my party, the Socialist Party, which has always fulfilled its commitments to advance rights, and there is the BOE to prove it. We place our country at the forefront by regulating egalitarian marriage and the registration of sex without the need for surgical treatment, and so it will continue to be. [[Applauds]] For the Socialist Party, it is as important to guarantee the rights of the LGBT collective as to avoid their possible challenge. The right-wing party resorted to the Law on the Effective Equality of Women and Men, the Law on Equal Marriage and the Law on Abortion and will probably resort to it. The initiative that is being considered today has contents that we question and that could be of dubious constitutionality. The self-determination of the person is that which operates, first and foremost, under article 10, which states the freedom of persons to define their sexual identity. It is on this principle that the right to a registered change of sex is based, and this has been reflected in Constitutional Court ruling 99/2019, but this should not lead to it outside the procedure to which the rest of the laws and processes are subject. The registrational change of sex is regulated by the Civil Registry Act and must be amended urgently to be definitively depatologized. We want this to be done in accordance with the recommendations of the European Union and to comply with certain guarantees. No one should take this as an attack, because it is not. We are in a rule of law that guarantees the rights and freedoms of all people. In addition to article 14 on equality before the law and article 2.2 on the obligation of the public authorities to remove obstacles to effective equality, our Constitution states that legal certainty must be guaranteed in order to do so. It would be naive to think that it is enough to want the rights to be fulfilled, without taking into account what they are based on and how they are conjugated. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of noise has been generated around this debate. We do not intend to avoid it, but we deeply regret the terms that have been given. To claim that biological sex exists has never meant denying the reality of people who do not identify with the sex with which they were born. On this premise the Socialist Party is working to achieve equal rights between women and men. On this reality we have defended and worked for sexual diversity in our country and will not accept that these realities come into conflict. We care a lot about the progress and consolidation of LGTB rights. That is why we want to make a good law, which is how the Government is working in collaboration with the main organizations of the movement. The laws are to guarantee rights, so they have to be clear and precise. Laws are not manifest, laws are not academic articles. Those who consider the laws to be mere declaratory acts are doing no favour to the advance, let alone to the consolidation of the rights of the LGTB collective. [[Applauds]] The initiative we are discussing today has shortcomings in different areas, such as health, prison, education, sport and work, and even the way of amendments would not be sufficient to remedy them. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not like the way this law is being proposed, and so have various organizations. We believe that LGTB legislation has to be clearly better than the text we are discussing. We share, with this initiative, that the process of depathology of trans people is urgent. We need to respond to the context of discrimination faced by these people. These people suffer harassment and discrimination in schools and universities, have many difficulties in finding a job or renting a home. These are issues that concern us very much, but as I have explained, the law that we are discussing today presents substantive issues that we do not share and issues that we consider to be much better. The Socialist Party will continue to work for the rights of the LGBT collective and trans with seriousness and constitutional rigour, no doubt. Very soon, when the Government refers the legislation in which it is working to this House, the Socialist Party will take up the task as a matter of priority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ros. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u45	I am asking for the floor under Rule 72 in connection with Rule 103, for the words given by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u46	Could you give concrete expression to the reference to which you refer?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u47	He referred to this group as a fascist far-right. I wanted to remind him of what Gustavo Well, he said that that's an insult of his own, of indoctuous people, of liars. Therefore, I am not even going to ask you to withdraw it, because I consider it inducted. I will ask you to withdraw it from today's Journal of Meetings, because it is unacceptable. In addition, I will ask you to do so on your own whenever you refer to us in the future with that expression. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u48	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. The Government has asked to speak on this agenda item. I give the floor, as provided for in Rule 7.5 of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u49	Very good afternoon, all of you. I would like to begin this intervention by condemning the last three Machist murders. Twenty-eight-year-old pregnant women and their seven-year-old son have today been added to a possible new murder by macho violence, a fifty-two-year-old woman in the province of Tarragona. If these latter cases are confirmed, 11 murders would be carried out for male-based violence, for gender-based violence, particularly in 2021, and 1089 since 2003. I want to remember phone 016, which is available 24 hours a day and 365 days a year, as well as sending a strong message: we are failing, still killing women for being women in our country. Let's go over all the protocols and all the tools. We will continue to legislate to send a strong message and make it effective: 'None less' and 'You are not alone'. [[Applauds]] I have asked for the floor in this debate, something I know is unusual, because I believe it is my duty as Minister of Equality - which has among its government commitments to take forward the guarantee of the rights of people to trans-manifest the strongest commitment to the self-determination of gender identity being a reality in our laws and for trans-people in this legislature. I want to start, therefore, by asking for forgiveness from trans people. Firstly, because I am aware that this debate should have come to this House from the government. I didn't make it, and I want to apologize. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I want to apologize to you because trans people have been watching your rights questioned for too many months, seeing your lives questioned. This is a diverse, plural society, respectful of the rights of trans people and the LGBT collective, and it is a society proud to have always been at the forefront of the recognition of the rights of the LGBT collective. I want to apologize and tell you that this is how it's going to be and that your rights are going to be law in this legislature. We have a debt to them, to them, to 'they' and we're going to settle that debt, even if it's not as soon as I'd like. [[Applauds]] I would like to thank the parliamentary majority that supports this coalition government in this House, in the legislative branch, for bringing this debate to the House, for bringing this law which is very similar, not to say the same, to the law that the Ministry of Equality has proposed for its debate, but with two improvements that I would like to recognize: one concerning the guarantee of the rights of non-binary persons and the other concerning trans persons whose administrative situation is irregular. I recognize these improvements, I show my agreement, in accordance with those proposals and therefore my commitment because we continue to work in that direction. This law is not only the law that today brings to this House the majority that supports this Government and the law that the Ministry of Equality has proposed for its debate, it is also the law of collectives and trans people, who have been fighting for their rights for decades. But it is also a law whose drafting obtained the unanimous consensus of this House in 2019. It is difficult to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a law that had legal certainty in 2019 does not have it in 2021 It is, moreover, legislation consistent with the legislation that has already been promoted in at least twelve autonomous communities of our country to recognize the right to self-determination of gender identity. [[Applauds]] And it is also a law consistent with what Europe is asking of us, not only the principles of Yogyakarta and the different international bodies, but Europe itself in its LGTB strategy and the European Commissioner for Equality itself. Europe is clearly telling us that self-determination of gender identity is the only way to respect human rights to guarantee the rights of trans people. With this I conclude. I think feminists know that winning rights is never easy and the LGBT collective knows it too. Finally, when the vote takes place, I would like this bill to go ahead and continue its process to be improved in all that needs to be improved. But if you do not continue your parliamentary process, I would like to express my strongest commitment to turning the right to self-determination of gender identity into a reality in our country and I believe that parliamentary groups, government, collectives, trans people and LGBT people have an inescapable task, which is to reach this year's LGTB pride by regaining the consensus of 2019, by regaining the unanimous consensus of this House to shield the rights of trans people and to recognize the right to self-determination of gender identity, and that this House, as I say, give unanimous support, as it did in 2019 to ensure that the lives of trans people are lives worthy of being lived in our country. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u51	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, amending Act 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career, in order to establish a single professional regime for professional military personnel. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u52	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u53	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Rosety. I'm going to ask for silence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u54	'That army that you see / vague to the ice and heat, / the better republic / and more politics is / of the world,... / because here blood exceeds / the place that one is made / and without looking at how one is born / looks at how it proceeds'. Don't be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm not here to recite octavas, not even so well known to Don Pedro Calderón de la Barca, soldier of the Spanish infantry. I have come to this rostrum, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, above all to denounce an injustice, a serious inequality of treatment in the militia, where no one should expect favor or fear arbitrariness. An inequality that, when Calderon wrote these verses glossing his own military experience, did not exist in the thirds, the best and most political republic in the world. In such terms, he referred to equality, to the brotherhood of arms. It seems that the myth of progress in this case has not been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we accept without blush that soldiers who have served Spain, exposing their own lives for the safety of everyone, are deprived of their profession by expiring at the age of 45 their long-term commitment? And so long, twenty years, a lifetime. It would be unthinkable if it were done both with its officers or non-commissioned officers, with public officials or with workers on behalf of others. Thus, 1500 men and women will be engaged in this situation throughout this year, 1800 next year, 2200 next year, and so on, up to 4000, according to data from the department itself. That is the law - dura lex, sed lex -, the Law 8/2006 of Troop and Marinery, that has relentlessly been applied to our veterans, the best among us, because they have served and suffered under the ice and heat without asking or refusing anything for long years in campaign, in the sea or in the air, away from their own, in strange places when not hostile. More than a hundred have given their lives for Spain and for their desire to achieve a better, safer and fairer world. They are men and women with family responsibilities, proud of their profession, fully trained and with extensive experience, who by an absurd bureaucratic design are estimated no longer to be worth without looking at how they proceed, turning to the verse, that is, without taking into account their professional value. They are not worth - they say - but shamefully they are offered to integrate into a reserve of special availability in exchange for settling them and their families with 600 euros per month. This, ladies and gentlemen, is more than nonsense, a fraud that did come to a legislative sanction because the paper endures everything, especially when its effects will fall to the head of others. No one seemed to predict in 2006 what would happen fourteen or fifteen years later, when 45 of those first soldiers and sailors who ten years ago joined the Armed Forces hoping to find in them not a temporary occupation, but a profession and a fraternity under the flag. [[Applauds]] The military institution cannot face this situation without violating its own moral foundations, but it is that its lordships, as legislators, cannot consent to the perpetuation of what constitutes a serious attack on the principle of equality enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution. We do not want the fact, certainly decisive in this case, that they are good soldiers to obey until they die, and the good ones are abused, we well know. What is the nature of that long-term commitment, so intentionally called, commitment? Because if it is labor, it would be abusive to extend temporary recruitment to such extremes. Is he a statuary then? We refer to the regime of professional military personnel which penalizes the Military Career Act 39/2007. Well, if I have dared to talk about fraud, it is because I consider that Law 8/2006 fulfils the sad role of a standard of coverage to exclude an entire category of citizens from Military Career Law 39/2007 which is applicable, because it cannot be claimed that the same professional link with the State is governed by different laws depending on the category of each. This is the first reason why the VOX Parliamentary Group has recorded the proposal for a law that I have the honour today to submit to the consideration of its lords, which repeals Law 8/2006 - that unworthy patch - and incorporates the soldiers belonging to the scale of troops and navy into the regime regulated by Law 39/2007. We thus fulfilled the promise that we made to the Spaniards in their day to ensure the real equality of all soldiers, enabling measures to be taken in the case of the professional troop to develop a lifetime in the service of Spain. It is not our intention to look to the past, but without understanding what happened it is very difficult to weigh the successes and remedy the mistakes. When, in 1996, the Government of the People's Party had undertaken fairly atollically the professionalization of the Armed Forces, the non-permanent Joint Commission of the General Courts, which had been set up for that purpose, had overlooked that the aim was to create a new profession, that of military troops and navy. As the most similar among us was the special volunteering of military service, what was done was to extend that model to all the Armed Forces, a model of accused temporality. It was thus intended that the marine soldier should serve for a very limited time and then go to what is called - or what they called - the re-entry of work - curiously qualified, because they had never joined the work young 18 or 20 years old - and, if they did not do so before, at 35 or 12 years of service they were licensed. The result, already in 2002, was that the troops stagnated at 72 000. Expert professionals were licensed, not to mention that income was discouraged in doing so. A profession had not been created, but a volunteering. In the face of the nonsense of licensing at the age of 35, the Socialist Party government thought: Let's postpone to the 45. Kick forward, ladies and gentlemen! And in that we are fifteen years later, with 50,000 men and women without a professional or family future. Ladies and gentlemen, from my own experience I know that military life is necessarily shorter than work, even for the cadres of command; in vain the licensing of veterans has historically been the main problem of professional armies. That is why it is desirable, even necessary, to favour a certain drainage of the contingent, provided that it is voluntary and that it helps maintain a reasonable average age for service in units, but it is also - and perhaps sooner - to devote to the posts, destinations and conditions of service that are most suitable for their age, preparation and experience for those who, by their high qualifications, intend to retain or who, serving satisfactorily, simply wish to remain in ranks. We live in times of accelerated, technological change, yes, but also economic and social change. The evolution of weapons systems and the demographic crisis will lead the Armed Forces to tough competition in the labour market, something we are not aware of. [[The Lord]] We will need a combatant of adequate age, but also a professional with preparation and experience to make successful decisions with little supervision and to recruit, train, motivate, retain and make rational use of human capital. This implies not only accepting the challenge of wages that entails - today ignored - but offering education, specialization, stability; ultimately, future. This is not the time, we do not have time to examine our proposal very carefully, but I am sure, on the other hand, that your ladies and gentlemen will have done so as a result of its publication in the Official Gazette. According to his explanatory statement, the present proposal for a law opts to establish a common system for the categories of officers, non-commissioned officers and troops and navy, on the basis that the relationship of services of all professional military personnel is essentially the same and is regulated by the same law. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend the operative part of the current Military Career Act 39/2007 to accommodate the provisions governing the relationship between the services of troops and mariners developed by Act 8/2006, extinguishing the so-called long-term commitment and repealing that Act. A single temporary commitment of three years is established for incoming soldiers and sailors. Without prejudice to full professional performance, there is a stage of vocational training and practice. The attainment of a dual methodology of the title of middle-grade technician is the marine soldier's educational goal in these early years of service. Upon completion of the conditions laid down - i.e. at least three years of age, qualification and declaration of fitness - a permanent and identical service relationship to the command tables may be made available upon assessment. The trajectory or career is conceived in three stages, each of which is approximately twelve years long. In the first, between 20 and 32 years of age, new soldiers and sailors will cover basic positions in force units. In the second, prior to the appropriate further training, they will be elementary or specialist commanders; and in the third, they will move to preferably administrative destinations in bases and quarters. It is stipulated that, at the age of 56, troops and seamen will move to the reserve position. In this situation, like the command boxes, they may or may not have a destination. In general, consideration should be given to the possibility of their professional skills being exploited in their own positions of public officials or employees, fixed employees of the Ministry of Defence or other branches of public administration, in accordance with the provisions of Law 39/2007 itself. Finally, the so-called exits provided for in articles 21 and 22 of Law 8/2006, i.e. the reservation of places for entry into the State Security Forces and Bodies, access to public administrations and support for employment integration, are maintained. These measures, however, should be seen as a contribution to motivation, not as the instrument of a timeless denial for twenty-five years of experience. Let us be skeptical. Military art shows us that it is a grave mistake to reinforce failures. Let us therefore make the military career an attractive option for our young people and establish a system aimed at retaining and managing talent throughout a professional life. For this reason, among other reasons - let us say in passing - our group registered and succeeded in adopting a non-legislative proposal concerning the equalization of the salary of the Armed Forces with the State Security Forces and Bodies, because works are love and not good reasons. We cannot deny the financial cost that the alternative we are presenting entails; a cost that, with a defence effort below 1%, will certainly unbalance the internal structure of the budget even more than it already is, but this is an effort that Spain has to assume in order to take its place as a strategic actor. [[Applauds]] I have not seen that any parliamentary group has called for a turn against it. Are you going to vote in favour and have you decided? Or don't you dare resist the debate? With your vote you will retract. [[Applauds]] Dare to change, ladies and gentlemen, do not persist in reinforcing the fiasco of temporality and collect the glove that VOX throws at them from the rostrum. We don't ask them to sign our bill... [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u55	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about a matter concerning our Armed Forces, and I want to start my speech with a sense of support for the soldiers, as well as the national civilian guards and police who are defending our borders and protecting the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla in these difficult days. [[Applauds]] Mr President, we are dealing with a legislative response to a very recurring issue which has already received specific attention from Congress in previous legislatures as well as in the XII, when a subcommission was set up within the Defence Committee, in which about 30 specialists appeared who made contributions from which the parliamentary groups adopted a large range of measures, almost three years ago. Nor has the Senate remained alien to this matter, as initiatives have been discussed in the Upper House to urge the Government to sign agreements, such as those recently signed with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces or with the CEOE. In any case, it should be noted that, of the forty measures included in that report of the subcommission for the study of the professional regime of the military of troops and navy of the Armed Forces, approved on 24 September 2018, there are many that are under development, as reported here at the end of January by the Undersecretary of Defense. It is also rare for the Commission not to take this matter up by one of the parliamentary groups, together with the concern about the salaries for the members of our Armed Forces, whose update is another of our major national emergencies. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on VOX which Mr Rosety has advocated amending Law 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career in order to establish a single professional regime for professional military personnel. We are faced with another need within Spain's major priorities, defence policy, and specifically the proper attention to those who serve our homeland and, in a unique way, to those who turn 45 and end their relationship with our Armed Forces. It has already been said - but I stress this, because we are facing a great growing and pressing problem - that today there are about 14 500 people affected among those on the troop scale and reservists of special availability, but it is that future estimates estimate that by the end of this decade they will be of the order of 26 000 and almost 45,000 in fifteen years, that is to say by 2036. After the end of their contractual commitment, many of these men and women remain in a difficult situation, without the professional exits that they were hoping for at the beginning and, after their situation worsened with the crisis, they became victims of insufficient regulations resulting from the timid Trop and Marinery Act of 2006 and the continuing budgetary decline that is also dragging our armies to precarious human, material and technical resources, which do not correspond to those of a great nation such as Spain. As hard as it is to recognize, many of our problems are linked to our insufficient capacity to adapt national defence to the twenty-first century, which is relegating us to an irrevocable modernization which, however, is being resolutely faced by the great European countries that are similar to ours and also by many NATO members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not very usual to talk at the plenary session of the Congress about defence issues and I would like to take this opportunity to stress the need to be very attentive to the profound changes that are already taking place in order to strengthen our partnership policies and meet the expenditure demands of a military investment commitment of at least 2% of GDP. Spain is, after Luxembourg, the second most inefficient and defence spending country in less than half of what NATO requires: 0.92% of GDP. It will therefore be necessary to hold detailed debates and also state agreements to define the model of the Armed Forces that we want for our immediate future. In any case, this bill is an opportunity to advance the regulation of professional and social rights and duties committed to in the Organic Law 9/2011 of 27 July on the rights and duties of members of the Armed Forces, which further promoted the creation of programmes of incorporation into other fields of work, in the case of the Sapromil Programme, which facilitates the voluntary incorporation of military personnel of our Armed Forces into the civil sphere. Persons enrolled in this system of professional skills development of military personnel have growing and insurmountable difficulties in finding a job exit, to which have been added the harmful effects of COVID-19 on the productive fabric. The situation is worrying and patchy, as is the case with the agreement of the Council of Ministers that this month of May was approved a reform to improve and promote the promotion within the Armed Forces, especially of the military that is part of the scales of non-commissioned officers and troops and navy. We have some data on the Ministry of Defence's efforts to formalize agreements with companies and institutions to conduct training courses and work orientation actions to promote and support integration into the civil work world. The reality is that they have proved to be very, very insufficient, and that is why this pending subject, which is trying to stop being so with this legislative proposal, is being kept. Moreover, the legislature is passing and the problem is growing and growing without a solution. The legislative changes proposed this afternoon are very relevant to meet socio-occupational needs and are aimed, among other things, at ensuring that professional military personnel have a link that is not truncated by the end of their relationship, that equals them all in opportunities and that resolves the precariousness that many are faced with when they turn 45, and even worse in the critical times that we are living. Therefore, this proposal for a law seems to me to be an opportunity to move forward in overcoming this problem. That is why, Mr President, I shall vote in favour of the inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. 'The soldier and the sailor / Flee from the atrocious care, / But do not escape their fury, / Not the fastest ship, / Not the lightest horse'. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring these verses in the moral theatre of human life, written by the Spanish humanist Antonio Brum, back in the early 1600s as a representation of the spirit of self-denial and duty that have always permeated the performance of the soldier and the sailor; an example that last week we saw in the fatal accident that followed the life of the artillery sergeant Débora Grau Serra. Our most heartfelt condolences to your family and friends and your colleagues from the Artillery Regiment of Costa number 4. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as Sergeant Deborah, there are many soldiers and sailors of our Armed Forces who do not want to serve another flag, who do not want to walk other paths, who do not know how to live otherwise. To all of them is addressed this proposal of law; to them and to the thousands that the fatal Law 8/2006 of Trop and Marineria condemned to enlarge the ranks of the unemployment without more curriculum than to have served and protected Spain and for no other reason than the biological one at the turn of 45 years. I would also like today to highlight the work of our Armed Forces, the role that those we want to play when they turn 45 are doing today defending our borders of Ceuta and Melilla, and those will also be played when they turn 45. [[Applauds]] My parliamentary group has on many occasions brought motions and non-legislative proposals to this House to urge the Government to amend the Troop and Marinery Act to put an end to the precariousness of all men and women on the most basic scale in our Armed Forces, who will urge the Government to bring to this House a law that unifies the various legal precepts of the military career, but the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have always opposed it, as I fear they will again do today with this bill. To me, ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible. To all the groups on the left of this House, where is your defense of the most precarious? Doesn't temporary contracts seem precarious to you anymore? Don't they find the contracts of myleurism precarious enough? You, who defend the promotion of the public so much, do you think that more than 50 000 public employees should go on to increase the unemployment figures? Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, of More Country, of Compromises, of Esquerra and of the BNG, are not these the claims of the left already: precariousness, mileurism, temporality? From the PP the soldiers and sailors can no longer expect anything. I think they already know that. They ruled and did nothing; no longer for changing the law, but did nothing to comply with it: they neither validated the training of our soldiers and sailors, nor encouraged their recruitment by other administrations, nor developed active employment policies from the Ministry of Defence to help them reintegrate into a complex labour market after the 2008 crisis. Gentlemen of the PSOE, the Military Career Act is 2007 and that of Tropa and Marinería of 2006, have passed fifteen years In these fifteen years we have suffered two economic crises; we have transformed our productive, social and political model; we have had three educational laws; we have adopted the royal decree that left the Bologna Plan settled; there have been more than fifteen labor regulations between laws and real labour market decrees on work and family reconciliation and on equality, and we continue with a Military Career Act of 2007. A law that divides professionals into two categories, that truncates dreams, longings and, at the end, sentences the forgetfulness and exclusion of their most vulnerable group: soldiers and sailors. General Patton said that the soldier is the army, that no army is better than its soldiers. I don't know what this general would think of an army that abandons those who serve their homeland. It hurts me to hear many of our commanders say that not all of them are fit in the army, that a young army and navy is needed, that there must be renewal on the most basic scales of the Army and the Navy, and that is why age limits must be set. I think if that's the only excuse not to repeal this Army and Troop Act our army is not up to its soldiers. Because soldiers and sailors not only use force, there are specialists in logistics, in surveillance, in administrative tasks, in maintenance, in kitchens, in hairdressers, in dining rooms, in residences, in headquarters, there are greasers, signposts, musicians. They must all have the opportunity to ascend, to specialize, to obtain equivalent qualifications that allow them to obtain a well-paid job if they decide to leave the Armed Forces, but all this is stolen when they wish, the lack of interest in solving a problem - a huge problem - makes us continue to decide their professional and family destiny on the basis of outdated laws. This Government must try to offer its soldiers and sailors more than a letter of discharge on the day they turn 45. I conclude, President. Many have been the Spanish writers who served in our armies and in our Navy: Garcilasus, Aldana, Lope, Calderón, even Quevedo, but today I would like to stop in Cervantes and in this paragraph of El Quixote: 'The difficult things are tried by God or by the world, or by the entrembles by two: and those that are tried by God and by the world together are those of the brave soldiers, who barely see in the opposite wall open as much space as it is that he could make a round artillery bullet, when put aside all fear, without giving speech or warning to the manifest danger that threatens him, carried in flight from the wings of the desire to return by his faith, by his nation and by his king, they cast themselves intrepidly by half a thousand counterposed deaths that await them'. [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not make our soldiers wait any longer for the death in life that means their expulsion from the militia simply by becoming older. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The bill put forward by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the army, on the military, on the armed forces, I do not know if it is a coincidence or is quite common here in this House. In any case, I do not think it is a coincidence, because it seems that the only interest of the extreme right-wing party of the House is to focus solely and exclusively on the Armed Forces, an Armed Forces that are today, as we have said, the obsession of VOX and one of the largest waste of public money in the state. It is clear that we, the Republican Group, will vote against this bill for many reasons, but I would like to highlight above all a phrase that you include in this bill that has surprised me quite, which is the reference to the lack of defence funding. I do not know when you made this proposal, but it really is disrespectful to me and I would be ashamed to say such barbarity basically because, given in hand, the Ministry of Defence's budget for this year 2021 grows by 664 million, 6.5% more than 2020, and reaches the unorbited figure of 10,863 million. But I see very few people shocked by that here. It is also a budget that - it is clear - cannot be considered progressive, since this increase will be destined to promote special weapons programs, which the friends of the Diario.es last week already brought to light with the sale of Saudi Arab mortars and shells for their particular war with Yemen, a sale authorized by the Rajoy government, or M. Rajoy - as you would like to call the People's Party bench - and linked to an ex-minister of Aznar. It seems that everything remains at home, gentlemen of the People's Party, do not come out of one and enter into another. We have an abusive budget in defense. In addition, we sell everything that has to be sold to warlords, an action totally reprehensible by the international authorities. The taxpayer's money, if it were for the extreme right or, rather, for the fascists of this House, would only focus on this, because thinking about job insecurity, the health collapse or the difficulties people have in finding a decent home does not count for them, or for example in reaching the end of the month, just to set an example. The cost of an armed forces without the need for so many troops is enormously high and we all pay it more and more; the cost is high, but it is even worse when we know that these armed forces whiten ultra-rightists, fascists and Nazis - Nazis. I think everyone here knows that there are Nazis in the Spanish Army. [[Applauds]] Another thing is, as much as they know, they make deaf ears. [[Rumors]] That's something else, but good. This is the same army that is giving weapons and bombs to people who, for example, would want to see us between bars or directly shot. [[Applauds]] But I see very few people shocked by that. This is the case and you know it is the case, and this is also the fault of the government, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of the United States. You have in your hand the mechanisms to have a democratic Armed Forces, another thing is to look away. Totally, as it's always been, why change it, right? A few weeks ago, a TV show interviewed a Nazi, a Nazi who had been in the Spanish Army for several years. They will think that there are cases and cases, of course, but this person's case was a clear example of the Spanish Army's looking for any kind of extremism. This soldier to whom the interview refers said that he had been promoting the Nazi movement for years and years, even politically, without anyone - neither he nor those who are like him - happening to them at all. And I still see very few people scandalized in this House for that. He also said this soldier who at some point began to see that there was some sort of investigation into him. I want to remind you that this soldier had tattooed Nazi soldiers and generals on the arm and symbols of the SS. I don't know if you have to have some kind of master's degree to identify Nazi symbolism; perhaps one of these that used to give to some Members of the People's Party, I don't know. In any case, the investigation that according to himself, disappeared from one day to another and that today remains in the Army so unpunished and calmly. And I still see very few people shocked, very few hands in the head after hearing this. This is the clear example that the Spanish Army is not a democratic army and this has to be made very clear in this room. The fact that VOX is focused only on this issue denotes the unwillingness to try to improve this State. They are only interested in everything that has to do with folklore and shooting, and that, ladies and gentlemen, in democracy has a name. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u60	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. In Unity We are aware that, indeed, in our Armed Forces there is a serious problem with the temporality and especially with the situation in which 50,000 men and women live, who can be forced to leave the army at the age of 45. We are therefore aware that there is a need for a change in the law and that there is a need for a law that integrates all staff into it. However, we believe that the proposal put to us here by the VOX Group is not the solution to any of these problems, and we will therefore vote against it. We will vote against because we understand, as we say, that it does not solve the general problem of temporality and precariousness in the Armed Forces or the specific situation of workers who, when they reach the age of 45, can be dismissed from their jobs. This law makes an attempt to merge the Troop and Marinery Act into the Military Career Act but, in our view, it does so without order or concert, without bringing about major fundamental changes regarding the existing model that has generated precisely the problems we have previously pointed out. You intend to continue with a system of temporality based on commitment and without design of a linear race that includes all the military of all scales. What you do in this proposal is basically to establish a new shorter temporality and with the inclusion of a training with the middle degree degree, but you do not clearly define how training, the acquisition of career status and the periods during the initial commitments are articulated. On the other hand, the concept of compromise is also not discarded in this proposal, since it is really a model very similar to the previous one and which does not at all equal the conditions of the military, non-commissioned officers and officers. In short, in our view, this is not an effective project to end the problems raised by the current model, and that is why, as we have said, we will vote against it. We are also concerned about the speeches - and we have already heard several in the interventions of the groups that precede us - which, using as an excuse the situation of precariousness and temporality in which workers of the Armed Forces live, lead to the lobbyism of the arms companies, that is, they call for an increase in military spending but, of course, an increase that will not go for better working conditions or to give solution to the personnel who are in a situation of temporality, but finally for the purchase of more weapons, for more military spending and, therefore, for the benefit of the arms companies and not of the personnel working in the Armed Forces. On the other hand, we will also vote against almost on a question of democratic principles and foundations. As you can imagine, as democrats we do not like a group like VOX to put its hands on anything that has to do with the Armed Forces, a party in which here, in this rostrum, its highest representative, its leader, its presidential candidate said that it preferred the government of a genocidal and bloody dictatorship to the current coalition government, or a party whose spokesman, Macarena Olona, when in a retired military chat we talk about shooting 26 million people simply because they are left-wing, says that they are their people, or that, among other things, the person who has come up here today to defend this proposal of law, being military, defended a manifesto of exaltation to the figure of Franco and his criminal dictatorship. Therefore, as you will understand, from a group, from a political party that has these approaches, obviously we cannot expect anything that serves neither for democracy to be consolidated and advanced in the barracks nor for the democratisation of the functioning of the Armed Forces. In fact, the only thing any Democrat can expect and wish for from you in relation to the Armed Forces is to keep your hands as far away from them as possible, the further away, the better. [[Applauds]] That is so, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as we have said, we are aware that there is a problem that we have to solve and therefore we appeal to the Minister of Defence, we appeal to us to really get serious work done with associations and with all the people involved and that before the end of this legislature we have the capacity to respond with a law that really solves the problems of troops and navy personnel and ends with that fear and uncertainty that now lives 50,000 people because we do not know what will happen to them when they turn 45. Finally, I would like to send a reminder to my colleague Juan Antonio Delgado, who is a reference for many military in defence and in the commitment of the struggle to end this precarious situation. From here we join in the struggle he made for us to have a law sooner rather than later that really solves the problems raised. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are discussing a bill tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group with the intention of repealing the Troop and Marinery Act 8/2006, consequently revising Law 39/2007, in order to eliminate substantially any reference in it to long-term commitments in the Armed Forces. If you remember, a similar proposal was brought to this plenary in the form of a motion as a result of an inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, by Mr Gutiérrez, in September last year, which was debated and rejected. The proposal presented today by the VOX Parliamentary Group seems more elaborate, since it makes a tour of Law 39/2007, but in short it proposes the same, eliminating long-term commitments, and what it does is eliminate it at all sites where Law 8/2006 appears in Law 39/2007, simply eliminate it. By means of a simple process of purifying the text, consistent with the purpose pursued, which is to say that it is necessary to maintain a single mode of stay up to fifty-six years in the Armed Forces for troops and navy, there is no solution to the problem that would arise with this modification, which is substantially that of the increase of the average age of the troops and navy, which is currently estimated at around 33 years, with approximately 20% above 40 years. The current proportion of troops and initial-commitment navy personnel, which can be extended up to six years, the long-term proportion up to 45 and that of permanent troops is 15 %, 70 % and 15 % respectively, being the ideal proportion envisaged by the technicians of the Directorate-General for Personnel of the Ministry of Defence, to which attention will have to be paid and with which this will have to be discussed, 50 %, 40 % and 10 % respectively. The structure of our Armed Forces in its three components, the Earth Army, the Navy and the Air Army, is made up in a similar way: headquarters, force and force support in the three components. The forces are the essential element of the three and in favour of it and because of its existence there are the other two, which are the headquarters and support for force. Without the existence of force the other two make no sense. Of the three components, the Army and the Navy, the largest is the Earth Army, and in this, as far as the troops are concerned, about 80% of the army is concentrated in units of force. The model unit of employment in the Earth Army is the battalion. The battalion is a unit, depending on the type of unit in question, the type of specialty mainly, of about 500 men, commanded by a lieutenant colonel who is between 42 and 45 years old, assisted by two or three commanders who are between 35 and 38 years old, with seven or eight captains who are about 30 years old, and then lieutenants and non-commissioned officers. That is, between the Lieutenant Colonel, who is between 42 and 45 years old, and the last one incorporated there are 500 men, all younger than the Lieutenant Colonel, with three or four exceptions, the Senior Petty Officer and the Major Corporal of each company, etc. This model unit, which in the case of the Earth Army is the battalion, is the unit that acts in a compact manner without any fundamental difference in the physical demand to be performed by each of its components: mountain marches, in varied terrain, by day, by night, parachute launches, movements or deployments of armoured and mechanized units, etc. It is not a matter of being in good physical form, having good sports marks, but of having the natural strength of youth, which allows to face challenges and physical demands in conditions of superiority. Raising the average age of these units is compromising the guarantees of their operation and the physical safety of their members. Just as in the Earth Army I speak of battalions, in the Navy you can talk about ships and in the Air Force you can talk about the Air Forces groups, the air wings. Same considerations as to the age of the members of these units. As was the case with the Citizens' motion in September, today's bill avoids talking about the operation of the Armed Forces and its effectiveness, without whose consideration one cannot point to a model or another for the provision of service to the nation within the Armed Forces, or this consideration is to underestimate the importance of the role of the Armed Forces in national defence and in the physical and all-round demand that requires the performance of their duties. Defence policy is a state policy that requires consensus, because sudden, brutal and abrupt variations cannot be made in the model that is being pursued and that uses neither exploitations of the vulnerabilities of our Armed Forces for the benefit of either political project. The vulnerabilities of our Armed Forces harm us all. We must all make the best of ourselves so that they are not only socially and occupationally competitive, as appears to be the object of this proposed law, but also operationally effective and safe for themselves and for the society for whose defence they exist. It would be infinitely more comfortable, for the People's Parliamentary Group and for this Member who speaks to them, to let themselves be carried away by inertia and say: well, whatever God wants, but it would not be consistent with the responsibility required of political forces. The Armed Forces are a national resource in the service of all Spanish society. The definition of its structure and the requirements of its professionals must be based on fundamentally technical criteria to be taken into consideration by this House. The adoption of decisions of a populist nature, without any basis other than that of giving social satisfaction to a particular professional sector, without taking into account the needs and possibilities of our nation and of the society to which they serve and for which they exist, is not responsible. The People's Parliamentary Group recorded a non-legislative proposal for its debate in the Commission which was rejected and which sought to deepen, advance and consolidate the effective implementation of the measures provided for in Law 8/2006 of Trop and Marineria itself, and in the appropriate estimates in the report of the Subcommission of Defense, which was two years analyzing the professional troop model of our Armed Forces and came to the conclusions reached, which some liked more and others liked less, but committed this House and our Ministry of Defence. I encouraged and urged all political groups to join in this effort to improve the conditions of our military and not to be led by populist and electoral temptations in a matter as essential to our nation as is the policy of security and defence, promoting initiatives that are not rigorous or drawn from the context consistent with the actions carried out to this day. There are no expulsions, no finalizations of commitments to the service of the Spanish nation because the service in the Armed Forces is terminated. Service to the Spanish nation is provided in many places and not exclusively in the Armed Forces. Those who have a vocation to serve the Spanish nation lend it in many places. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We'll vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u64	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u65	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by conveying my deepest condolences to the relatives, friends and companions of Sergeant Debora Grau, who died last Friday in an act of service. For her and all the soldiers who died in the area of operations, a sense of remembrance and gratitude, remembering, in particular, the comrades who gave their lives in carrying out their duty in Afghanistan, lands in which our army carried out its mission. And I don't want to forget those military men and women who have fought and fought against the virus of this pandemic. To all of them and to them, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the proposed law that we are debating is not new, it is a recurring subject that seeks only to give cakes to those who say that there is no bread, it is a proposal of populist law. Your main approach is that you ladies and gentlemen, with your vote, are complicit in putting national security at risk, in undermining the safety of the citizens of Spain. This proposal of law does not bring anything positive, but a lot of naphthaline. It aims to eliminate temporality as a characteristic of the troop and navy scale, eliminating the long-term commitment. They do not tell you that you in this House have already voted three times no to this and have voted yes to the opinion of a subcommittee proposed by the PSOE in which the experts who spoke for almost two years clearly told the Members of this House that you cannot have an army whose military base is all permanent. This would directly address national security. Ladies and gentlemen, these brilliant minds are not interested in saying that the temporality of the troops is a common feature of all the armies in our environment, being the model of the Spanish Army and Marinery Law one of the most innovative in this regard, as it contemplates the possibility of access to the status of permanent, however not contemplated in other countries. Thus, temporality is a consubstantial characteristic of all the armies in our environment, constituting a clause that is voluntarily assumed from the very moment when someone decides to join the military profession. The elimination of temporality would have a direct impact on the operation of the Armed Forces, given the ageing it entails on the troop scale. It is estimated that the extension in active service of the military from 45 to fifty-six, which is what they propose, rather than fifty-eight, would mean an increase of approximately five years in age from the current 35 to about 40. By comparison, in 2018 the average age of this scale was 32 years, in Italy; 30 years, in the United Kingdom; 28, in France, and 27, in the United States. These patriots claim that ours is forty; twenty-seven and forty. But, moreover, these privileged minds do not tell them that the experts warned of the danger of a disassociation and disaffection of citizenship with their Armed Forces by not being able to access them within a period of at least ten or fifteen years. If all the military are made permanent and by law we cannot increase the numbers and the tendency, by the high technology of the weapons systems, is that the numbers are becoming smaller, we have that our daughters and children would not be able to access their Armed Forces, not even our grandchildren and grandchildren, although they would like, yes, all this in contravention of article 30 of the Spanish Constitution; we know the respect they have for it. In addition, the high economic cost of staff involved in a mastodontic army must be taken into account. [[The lady]] We are presented with an initiative whose underlying idea is that, according to them, once they reach the age of 45, the military are abandoned by the State. Ladies and gentlemen, foolishness, even if it is repeated by millions of mouths, does not cease to be foolishness, and here it does not reach a few mouths that repeat it, ladies and gentlemen, do not fall into this lie and do not participate in your vote of it. It is utterly false that the State abandons those who were military. Firstly, it should be remembered that those military personnel who have reached the age of 45 are resolved their commitment, they can access the status of reservists of special availability, receiving a non-contributory monthly allocation of EUR 664. This availability allowance is an unmatched measure in the civil sphere, even Europe has touched us twice for this reason, since it can be received in a way compatible with any other employment in the private sphere: EUR 664 plus one salary. In addition, unemployment benefit can be paid with it and family assistance for the unemployed can also be granted. They claim that we have a problem of thousands and thousands of abandoned ex-military - there mentioned 50,000, they are given very bad numbers - but what they do not tell them is that most of them are linked, at their own request, in many cases because they have found other professional exits in the public or private sector. At present, the coalition government, thanks to the measures of the subcommission, has managed to offer almost four public and private employment places for each of them; many of our nurses and health workers would already like it! Ladies and gentlemen, it has been found that of a total of 9200 people born in 1974, 9.3% completed their commitment, and of them only 3% do not have employment. In return, they want to sacrifice national security. To all the above, we must add that we are faced with a career model that would start with an initial commitment of three years before being permanent. The first three years as a soldier or sailor, which are precisely the most demanding, are performed by providing services in units of force, as has been noted here, and the connoisseurs of the Armed Forces claim that our soldiers dedicate them exclusively to taking a title. On the other hand, the career path contained in the proposed law would, according to them, consist of three stages of twelve years. And here we're going to use math. In the first, from 20 to 32 years of age, operational basic posts will be filled; in the second, from 32 to 44, destinations with elementary command; and in the third, from 44 to 56 years of age, it would be moved to preferably administrative destinations. They are known to know our Armed Forces well. However, the reality is that the needs of force personnel in their first phase are much greater, and not equal to the other two. But let's do some calculations. Three stages of twelve years are thirty-six years. They advance, without any explanation, the transition to the reserve from 58 to 56 years of age. If we subtract 36 from the 56, it turns out that the age limit for joining the Armed Forces would be 20 years. Very logical, considering that the average age at which our soldiers are entering is 26 years. I'm finishing up. Math is not very good for them, ladies and gentlemen. This text is a 'here I catch you and here I kill you'. They intend to replace with twelve pages an entire model of Armed Forces collected in two laws, they intend to collect wills and votes at the expense of national security, at the expense of everything. That's what they want the country. There are endless classes of fools known, the most deplorable is that of the parochinas who are committed to proving that they have talent, and this proposition of law completely lacks any talent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Cantera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u67	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Group we want to show our solidarity and support to those who before, now and always are the only ones who defend our borders: the Police, the Civil Guard and the Army. All our encouragement and thanks for defending Spain. [[Applauds]] Today we will reproach the worst minister of democracy. The covers of the newspapers ABC, El Mundo, El País - I bring them all - are already reprobating you. [[Shows various newspaper covers]] Marlaska has lost control of the borders. What happens in Ceuta is very serious. There's no precedent. Marlaska, with broken relations with Morocco, knew it, but did nothing to avoid it. The immense vacuum of Marlaska's migration management has already been filled by the Mafias and Morocco. That minister who gave 12 million euros to buy armoured vehicles for the Moroccan Police, more than 10 million to buy thermal cameras, while they are denied to the Civil Guard and the Police, who are rendering service with precarious means and troops, and that yesterday Morocco thanks him sending him 6,000 immigrants to invade Ceuta. How can it be a security minister who is not even able to protect our borders? What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] We demand that the Government ensure the integrity of our borders and proceed to the immediate return of immigrants. If they left Morocco, to return them to Morocco, to apply the mechanism of rejection at the border introduced by the PP in the Law on Citizens' Security, and to support the Security Forces and Bodies by sending the necessary reinforcements, and to establish and restore diplomatic relations with Morocco, but not on a checkbook basis, as they did today, approving 30 million for Morocco instead of an economic and social reinforcement for Ceuta. We demand a clear and compelling answer. Marlaska became a chollo for the human trafficking mafias, with its null immigration policy, turning the hotels of tourists of the Canary Islands into hotels of immigrants. Marlaska does not control sea routes to the Canary Islands or land routes to Ceuta and Melilla. Marlaska only controls the route of ETA killers to the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] They're the only ones he's served effectively all this time. Today we call for the rejection of the Minister of the Interior, whose head will again be saved by the votes of Bildu. Yes, he's still sitting on that minister chair thanks to the unworthy agreement of 'you give me five votes, I'll bring you five prisoners'. And every Friday Marlaska fulfills, and approaches bloodthirsty terrorists paying with the wallet of indignity. Ladies and gentlemen, the Private Security Act was passed in 2014, with a very strict system of professional qualification. The PSOE was scandalized because, according to them, security was going to be only for those who could afford it. Who would tell them his name was Paul Iglesias? From the left abertzale, his spokesman said: we are going to meet disco thugs playing cops. They weren't discos, they were from Podemos. Left Republican said: fascists with a sheet will take care of order and our security. They weren't fascists, they were communists. Mr Marlaska probably does not remember those criticisms, because at that time he was begging the support of the People's Party to ascend in his professional career, and he still did not consider us a criminal organization. Mr. Marlaska knew that two people from the security department of Podemos had been arrested for assaulting their - their - police officers during an election. He knew it and said nothing; he hid it while airing threats to the Government, because he was on an election campaign. We now fully understand the message behind Colonel Pérez de los Cobos' cease-fire. His intention from the beginning has been to control everything and know everything to put it at the service of the interests of the party. Mr Marlaska, you are still in time, even if you are late, to show some decency and demand that all responsibilities be cleared, that the truth be known, that the law be complied with, that there be no coverage of thugs, that punitive files be initiated and that that sinister organization called the security department of Podemos be dismantled, which recalls the worst practices of some regimes. Decide at once, Mr. Marlaska, between the National Police the masons paid for by Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be endless the relation of facts justifying the reprobation of Minister Marlaska, that minister condemned by the arbitrary and illegal cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, to whom he has ceased without cause and who has invited to go to exemplary public servants, who caused the greatest attack on the neutrality of the Civil Guard, that minister who wanted to control the social networks, who practiced the kick in the door, who keeps silent while kicking and insulting his police, that minister who did not protect the police and civil guards and prison officials during the pandemic, that minister who keeps silent before the harassment of the civil guards and police in Catalonia and Navarre, who crossed his arms while leaving them stranded in the Field of Gibraltar, in Ceuta or Melilla, who allowed the execution of the truth to discriminate police and civil guards during the vaccination of Catalonia, that minister who in the midst of the economic crisis has the shame of buying a tape of mail to the Spanish government that was sent to all the officials of the Spanish Interior, who had not been given permission to the Spanish prison officials, who had been sent to the Spanish authorities, who had been sent to the Minister of the administration to the government to the authorities, who had been sent a letter of the government to the Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iglesias has already left, even before a court kicked him out of the National Intelligence Centre. It is disgusting to see how they used a pandemic, used the state of alarm, used disease and life to collate in a royal decree to Churches in the CNI. While people were dying and the health workers were struggling to save lives and we were all locked up, Sanchez' priority was to place Churches. Mr. Absent Marlaska, I hope that, like Churches, you will leave before a court kicks you out, and if not, Sanchez's priority is to kick you out as well. It no longer has any moral authority or legitimacy to follow another minute in the head of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some standing positions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the VOX Group, Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u70	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, I wish to express our support and affection for the Civil Guard Forces, the National Police Corps, the Army and also the Local Police, who are currently defending the Spanish city of Ceuta against a real invasion, which is the consequence of the policy of weakness and inefficiency of this Government, which has not been able to carry out a firm policy of defending our southern border and has therefore incurred a very serious cowardly and traitorous withdrawal. [[Applauds]] And I want to tell the Spaniards of Ceuta and Melilla in these difficult moments that VOX will never abandon them, and that our commitment to them is clear, clear and express. Spain always, always, for Ceuta and Melilla. [[Applauds]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, to the question. The requirement of the cessation of the Minister of the Interior is in itself based on the acts committed throughout his career as such a minister, and therefore does not have to be linked to whether or not there is prior approval by this House. That is the meaning of our amendment, which seeks to give a new wording in this line to the second point of the non-legislative proposal. The Minister of the Interior has become an obstacle to the primacy of the law and the rule of law, and therefore a danger to the security and freedom of the Spaniards. He has credited an unworthy and sectarian conduct in the case of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos; he has become the liquidator of the policy of dispersal of prisoners of age; he has repeatedly deceived the victims of ETA, Spanish society and this House, and he has intended to turn the Security Forces and Bodies into a political instrument in the service of the sectarian interests of the Government. Only these considerations are sufficient to demand the cessation of the Minister of the Interior, but he has also shown, in addition, a systematic sectarian and overpowering conduct with his subordinates, with the bodies under his command; he has been unable to meet his legitimate demands; he has been unable to protect them during the pandemic; he has produced an internal policy of cessation and promotion permanently based on political affiliations and phobias, when not in rabies or in acts of revenge. And finally, the Minister of the Interior has become the main activist of an innoble and unclean campaign of lynching and criminalization of VOX, instituted by the government, during the recent elections in Madrid. First, he facilitated the attacks in Vallecas, putting citizens and police at risk, by allowing the aggressors to reach the very place of the rally. Secondly, he hid that for fifteen days he knew that two personal escorts of Pablo Iglesias had been arrested, as the main cause of these attacks, and not only that, but that he has also refused to investigate the irregular recruitment of these types by Podemos, as he lacks the legal authorization to act as escorts. And, at the height of the hills, the Minister of the Interior became the main protagonist, together with the Director General of the Civil Guard, of a campaign of supposed threats that also intended to impute them to VOX in a free, vile, unworthy and miserable way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior is a finished minister, he has become a puppet of proetarras, golpistas and the extreme left of Puemita. His conduct as a minister believes that he is an unworthy minister, devoid of scruples and shame. It must be stopped immediately, so we demand today from this rostrum on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group and millions and millions of Spaniards tired of putting up with a political subject like Marlaska, tired of putting up with his insolence, his arbitrariness, his prepotence, his cynicism, his hypocrisy and his lies. Nothing more, and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again I have the opportunity to join from this rostrum in another request for reprobation by the holder of the Interior, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, as a show of censure for his management, in a singular way regarding the episode concerning the arbitrary cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, which violates one of the main functions entrusted to the ministry, such as the promotion of the conditions for the exercise of fundamental rights, with the aggravating factor that in this case he has as a victim a good public servant, of impeccable trajectory, which is uniquely credited in addition, in one of the greatest challenges to the Constitution and the territorial integrity of Spain. This is the world backwards. We are faced with much more than a mishap, because it is already regrettable that the ministry silenced the identification of the thugs who had faced blows against our Security Forces and Corpses in the pre-election act of VOX in Vallecas, at the beginning of April, while the colonel of the Civil Guard who has carried out missions of enormous responsibility, commissioned by the Rajoy Government as operational chief in the name of democracy, order and law, and above all this Government, supported by the votes of those who despise the work of our State Security Forces and Corpses, blocks the promotion to the generalate. I am confident that, in addition to the political decisions that conclude with this disastrous stage, it is justice that is firmly pronounced in the face of the manifest deviation of power perpetrated from the department of Mr. Grande-Marlaska against Mr. Pérez de los Cobos, as retaliation for refusing to break the duty of reserve of judicialized proceedings, as was demanded by the General Directorate of the Civil Guard with night, lightness and knowledge, if not the mandate, of La Moncloa. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In case there was little that we had a entangled Interior Minister, after illegally ceasing Pérez de los Cobos, after nauseously and illegally approaching prisoners with terrorist and blood crimes, and after knowing that those who kicked the police were people very close to Podemos' surroundings, what has happened in Ceuta is the drop that fills any glass, and must be stopped immediately and without any contemplation. And after ceasing Mr Marlaska, Mr Sánchez also has to cease Mrs González Laya, because what we are talking about is not a migration crisis, what we are talking about is an ordago from Morocco to Spain, and if we have to defend Spain we will have to call things by its name, because that is what we are talking about. [[Applauds]] What Morocco has done is to perpetrate a diplomatic extortion of our country, which deserves a serious and decisive response from Spain. Of course, what is unacceptable is having to endure today at a press conference, first, the Minister of the Interior, and then, the President of the Government, saying that they do not know that the reason is the decision that Spain made to give sanitary shelter to the leader of the Frente Polisario. Look, if you don't know, we have a problem and it's either we have a minister who lives in a parallel reality or he takes the Spaniards for idiots and lies to us. In either case, he is disqualified from serving as Minister of the Interior. Because, indeed, what is happening in Ceuta is not a migration crisis. In just one day more illegal immigration has arrived than throughout 2019, and that is a campaign orchestrated by the Moroccan government. So we have to call things as they are, because of course we have to have a good neighborhood, but good neighborhood can only be built from respect, and when respect for our country is lacking we need a government that defends us, and not that it makes empty speeches like those we have heard today from the President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. Therefore, if there were already many reasons why Mr Marlaska should not remain in his post for another minute, there is no reason why he should not cease, because the main mission of the Minister of the Interior is to defend the borders of Spain, and it is clear that in this case he has failed in a strept way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u75	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u76	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vázquez, you said that the minister, Mr Marlaska, has the applause of Euskal Herria Bildu. Look, I'm gonna give you a hint. I believe that there are options for Mr Marlaska to be reprobated, but not for the reasons that you allege and have repeated last week. I'm going to give you three clues that, if you want, I think you can blame this minister. Firstly, the failure to investigate torture in the Basque case, as has been shown by successive convictions of the Court of Strasbourg, seven convictions! How do you like it? Is that okay with you? In the same way, let the Mordaza Law, which you approved, continue to be applied. If you want to reprimand the minister for the application of the Mordaza Law, we will vote in favour. Or the management of migration policy. That is, you are making more hot returns than you made. If that is the case, we will vote in favour. But no, you argue other reasons, so we will vote against. However, I will focus in particular on the management of migration policy. We have seen yesterday and we have seen today the arrival of thousands of migrants to the city of Ceuta. Migrants, in many minor cases, in bathing suits and trinkets. What invasion are you talking about? The same invasion that your former party member, Mr. VOX, was talking about? What invasion? We're talking about people. And I think President Sánchez was right today when he said it was a humanitarian crisis. I agree, but a humanitarian crisis is not answered as the extreme right asked yesterday. Look, Mr. Abascal yesterday asked to deploy the Army and return the invaders. And what has the government done? Deploy the Army and make hot returns, thousands of them, in many cases of injured persons and in other cases of minors, jumping international legislation. And of course, if you apply the same measure as the extreme right, you will tell me how you are not going to make demagogic speeches and how you are not going to increase the extreme right. I know it is a difficult matter for any State, it is complex for the local government, for the State administration, but it must be given mainly humanitarian answers. It is people who are entering, and to this end we must respond with humanitarian measures, increasing the means and assistance, both emergency and social, giving priority to minors, also increasing the resources for asylum applications and, of course, creating legal channels to facilitate entry for those who wish to apply for asylum. By the way, I was saying this to the lady of the People's Party: you are returning people summarily, hotly - as is often said colloquially - collectively, jumping all the legislation and carrying the policy of returns to the extreme, without any particularity and without those people being able to claim any reason for being able to benefit from asylum. But do you know what the underlying problem is? That Morocco - it is true - has used people as an instrument of pressure. The problem is that you and other Member States of the European Union have turned Morocco into the back yard of Europe, have outsourced the borders for them to do the dirty work, and today approved 30 million euros for the management of migration policy in Morocco. They seem to be late, but this has consequences, and it is that you know what blackmail is, that you know what the pressure measure is for you to pay more or not to do certain things. If it were true that this is the revenge of Morocco because it is being treated in a Spanish hospital to the president of Western Sahara, to Mr Brahim Gali, whom we wish for an early restoration, you are already delaying in recognizing Western Sahara as a sovereign state. [[Applauds]] If that's the price they're getting paid, they're running late, for historical responsibility, but also for the fact that they've used people, in many minor cases, as a way of pressure. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have focused on a very specific case of a person. Look, we don't think that Mr. Pérez de los Cobos has stopped. We, all those participants in the state sewers and in connection with the deep state, with that deep state that you control, what we ask is that you be expelled from any police force, by democratic hygiene and by common sense. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u78	President, I will speak from the seat, because I will do so very briefly. I just want to say that we will not vote in favour of this initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group. We believe that this is an issue that has been discussed through multiple initiatives, and at many times or in recent months on a recurring basis. The position of our group is clear and we believe that we now have nothing more to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u80	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, again. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you two get a little bored of this Marlaska thing? Another week, two more motions, two more reprobations about Marlaska? Ladies and gentlemen, the only condition for a minister to be suspended is that he loses the confidence of the President of the Government. Let's talk about Sánchez, not Marlaska; to keep talking about Marlaska no longer makes any sense. We have already mentioned that Marlaska is a person whose professional dignity he lost many months ago; I no longer want to say politics as a minister. Let's talk about who's holding you, let's really talk about who's holding you in that position, because it doesn't matter how many times we vote for the reprobation in this House even if it went well, it doesn't matter how many motions we bring about Marlaska. As long as Mr Marlaska maintains the confidence of the President of the Government is not going to be ceased, I therefore believe that things must be approached from a different perspective. And it is not that this opposition invents or wants this opposition, but that every week that passes we find new and new reasons for Mr Marlaska to assume some responsibility for the Minister of the Interior. I believe that asking for explanations and resignation from the minister is a waste of time and leads to nostalgia. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like once again to renew our support for the State Security Forces, the local police and the Armed Forces, as I said before, which have been defending our borders for more than 24 hours. With all the work they still have, with all that work and despite that, they have to endure a minister who cares more about giving rallies than about giving answers to his professionals. Mr Marlaska and Mr Sánchez, through the protection that he offers him, are directly responsible for not having foreseen in any way the migration crisis and the challenge to the territorial integrity of Spain that we are experiencing. We believe that explanations in this regard are urgent, because it is not that the Moroccan Government has hidden itself, it is not that the Moroccan Government has not said anything or threatened in these previous days. Since Mr Sánchez is not going to withdraw confidence in Marlaska, because we believe that the only thing he does is to protect him, we want to take advantage of this intervention to demand that he immediately tackle the diplomatic and security crisis that has generated this government's mires and that he pushes forward a determined and ambitious plan to combat irregular immigration, and I will give him some ideas to do so, ideas that perhaps, by being liberal, Mr Sánchez and Mr Marlaska do not like: prevention of these migrations in countries of origin and transit, an effective policy for the legal return of people who enter irregularly into Spain and the European Union, speed up the processes of inclusion, attraction of migrants with skills and talent and strengthen the role that the European Union must play in the migration debate. Spain is a European border and, therefore, it is also there, in that political area, where we must defend our positions. The question I ask myself is: What has to happen if Mr Sánchez is to withdraw the confidence of the Minister of the Interior? I think this is not a rhetorical question, it is true that we have to know and we want to know what has to happen. We are no longer talking about the sentences in the case of Mr Pérez de los Cobos, whom I believe we have reviewed a great deal here. That literal response from Mr Sánchez, every time he is asked to remove Marlaska, that he has all his confidence - my confidence, Mr Sánchez says - translates into an insult to public servants, who see how arbitrariness and fulminant cessations are rewarded, while they continue to serve a country whose government gives them more than clear reasons for distrust. As I was telling you, this is just one of the many issues that make up this reprobation, because we could be talking for hours about its confrontation with the associations of victims of terrorism, its policy of prison transfers, its inability to deal with vandalism in Catalonia, or we could even talk about the money that costs all Spaniards their tape to run effectively. Therefore, if Mr Sánchez is responsible for the discrediting of this ministry, we believe that Mr Sánchez should be mentioned. Why is Sánchez's only plan a personal projection strategy and not a country project for Spain? It's over, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u81	Mr. Gutierrez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u82	I'm on my way, President. What else has to happen before the President of the Government ceases Mr Marlaska? That's the question. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. I'll be brief, even maybe you don't even spend the two minutes I have. Mrs Vázquez and Mr de VOX, because in this they point to the amendment, they bring us here the umpteenth reprobation of the Minister of the Interior with an argument that goes from the fence of Ceuta to the tape of running in the particular home, with its detail of affairs, adding the current of yesterday and today, because everything is worth putting in the bag of this reprobation. I suppose they want their reprobation also with our votes; the votes of the independenceists also serve them to reprobate the Minister of the Interior. The funniest thing is that you must think: these PeCAT guys, as serious guys, are people of order, surely they will also point to this issue. But the most serious thing about this is that, while you are asking for our votes to reprimand Minister Marlaska, we receive this at home, you will ask yourself what this is is the challenge you make of the minutes of the Member of Parliament of my person and of the other colleagues of the constituent session of the Courts. [[showing a bulky envelope]] [[removing documentation from the inside of the envelope]] This is the way you have to do politics: bring the issues to the Constitutional Court, bring the issues to the court. What they can't do is come here and ask for the votes for their initiatives and at the same time go to the Constitutional Court to nullify our rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u85	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u86	Thank you, President. What I find disgusting, Mrs Vázquez, is what has been able to destroy your party in the name of this unreal unity of the Kingdom of Spain, and today I have seen and heard here a lot of breasts, a lot of Spain and a lot of homeland. What I recommend is more cooperation, more humanity, less tanks, less testosterone and more attention to unaccompanied minors. Before I start, if you'll excuse me for fifteen seconds, I'd like to... [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] This issue has been discussed, and my colleagues have said so many times, too many, so I will try to be brief. It is very exhausting to hear his lessons, those of one and the other, because they are responsible for the fact that today this country remains in the hands of the police and patriotic justice, in the hands of the most far-right race and that the Francoist heirs continue to mark the course or derive it, as it is seen, from the Kingdom of Spain, no matter how much some make it up as a Progressive State. One of the many evidences that this state is certainly in the hands of the ultra-right is, for example, the ruling of a Spanish court of justice calling for the reinstatement of someone with a path linked to the ultra-right, Mr Pérez de los Cobos, whom the members of the People's Party are committed to continuing to whitewash. President Sánchez stated a few months ago in the parliamentary seat that Minister Marlaska was unravelling the patriotic police. They have not talked about the subject any more, no one has come out to give more explanations, and we do not think anything normal than in a State that is supposed to be democratic and legal, in which there is a political police structure that operates against national minorities and against dissent, no one, no one gives explanations, neither the Government nor the PSOE nor Podemos. I'm on my way. Mrs Vazquez, to give lessons you would have to have solid democratic credentials, and we all know that this is not exactly the case. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u88	In this Congress there is a Commission on the state sewers. Obviously, it is not called that because admitting the existence of these cloacas would be to recognize before the whole world, and especially before Europe, that Spain is not a full democracy. But the cloacas of the State exist and, beyond being an ideological power of fascist cut, it is the ones responsible for performing the gross work, the dirty work, governs who governs. That is why the State's sewers continue, because they are useful to the governing State. What does it mean to do the dirty work? He perfectly defined it to my colleague Gabriel Rufián in the Commission on the State sewers one of those who have been most responsible for the security of the State, when he said that he would do everything for Spain and that everything is everything, letting it be seen that this implies even things that are beyond the law. Well, Pérez de los Cobos is one of the members of the state sewers, of those who are willing to do everything for Spain, and that's all. Hence the great obsession of the PP and VOX for keeping him in positions of responsibility for State security. The problem for you, gentlemen of the PSOE, is that the cloacas of the state are so ideological and so facades that they are at the service of the Spanish right and are a fifth column for any government that pretends to be progressive. Make no mistake, the state sewers are not at the service of Spain, they are at the service of blue Spain, they are the political-social brigade of the twenty-first century. The 1978 regime has normalized the state's cloacas, the dirty war and even state terrorism, has normalized the exception to the rule of law, and has standardized it so much that not only do they act with impunity, but they believe they are as powerful as they are to challenge political power, and they also do so in connivance with justice as inherited from Francoism as the cloacas themselves. As long as they retort and break the law with impunity, the organization of a referendum, a referendum that, as the state's cloacas and Pérez de los Cobos himself, responsible for preventing the referendum, was organized in secret by thousands of people from Catalonia and the rest of the Catalan Countries, a referendum that counted on the necessary complicity of an entire people, and in particular of more than two million people that we went to vote for. Perez de los Cobos, full of rage and impotence, sought to compensate for the humiliation through disproportionate and savage violence against the Catalan population. The PP and VOX, from their violent nationalism, intend to reward Pérez de los Cobos, in addition to having a man of their confidence that will allow them to have a hand in the government despite having lost him. In his full democracy he will be able to reward Pérez de los Cobos all they want for his life on October 1, but all the medals and distinctions will not be able to hide a great truth, a great humiliation. Pérez de los Cobos was unable to find a single ballot box for the October 1 referendum. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Nothing, here again, to vote the same and to have the same result and under the same arguments and repeat this as if it were the day of the marmot. There is not going to be a different result and the debates are still at the same site, perhaps with the latest news that seems to be wanting to propagate this debate. Everyone knows what the position of our group is going to be, but on a day like today I would like to transfer to the House something that I believe, beyond the urgency, is a necessity for all the peoples of Europe. I believe that, in addition to the urgent need for humanitarian attention today, which requires a social deployment of care for people in vulnerable situations, there is an urgent need for the European Union to consider its relationship with Africa, the relationship that exists with the phenomenon of migration, and for the possibility of regular and safe routes to guide those migration routes that are going to exist. That in the first place. Secondly, and I believe that this is a more detailed and in-depth reflection, the European Union needs to reflect on its relationship with Africa and with the peoples of Africa, which must be of respect to peoples and not simply of connivance with the Governments which are currently oppressing the peoples of Africa and who are being complicit in a neo-colonial policy that derails their natural resources and derails the basic living conditions so that they can have a life in dignity for those peoples. It is not simply a matter of cooperation as if they did not know how to make a living; it is a matter of transnationals and northern countries not squandering the countries of the South and understanding international relations based on mutual respect and self-determination of peoples as a central element in understanding democratic relations among peoples. We can address this emergency as we wish, but the problem is going to remain there and it needs to be raised. When talking about Senegal's cayucos, there is no mention of what fisheries agreements are evading fishing banks that allow people to feed themselves. [[Applauds]] We and we believe that a substantive reflection of the European Union is necessary. We cannot look at the Middle East refugees and forget that it has been the factor of war, driven precisely by the countries of the north, which push the migratory waves. Lastly, such complicity with puppet and complicit Governments with the exploitation of the natural resources and living resources of the peoples of Africa leads to situations such as this, in which satraps are able to determine the political situation that currently exists. That is why Europe needs to look much more at the peoples and look a little less at the interests of the satrap governments, who call them brothers who do not come to the selections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Rodríguez Salas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u92	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, just over a hundred years ago a Member elected by the constituency of Granada came to this very rostrum with the sole aim of asserting the sense of state. His name was Don Fernando de los Ríos and he said: The only revolution that needs to be done in Spain is the revolution of respect. Well, it is no respect for the PP to assure, on April 20 of the same year, that it would not support the expansion of the state of alarm and only eleven days later to think otherwise; it is no respect to call Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba a murderer while he was Minister of the Interior to, after his death, set him as an example of good doing. [[Applauds]] These are just a few examples of his lack of consideration for what we understand out of respect and mentioned by Don Fernando de los Ríos. We already have ten requests for reprobation, as well as various contempt campaigns. Man is the being who can say no. This is the phrase of philosopher Max Scheler, whose thought attaches great importance to ethics and who was able to predict the threat of Nazi hordes. This same philosopher indicates that, from the ethics, we are what we deny and affirm, and that is why it is necessary to give an ethics, an enormous importance to the credibility, credibility that you adulterate by intoxicating the debate by polarizing and subscribing to the little fertile field of the chryspation. They have no constructive resources to provide solutions to the citizenry, hence this manic and repeated use of the request for reprobation, which becomes their only recourse to hinder the actions of Minister Marlaska and his team, aimed at reversing the years of cuts of his Government and putting an end to their partisan use of the material and personal resources of the National Police to cover up their corruptions and to lie and deceive justice. It is about ending the professional abuse of the Police, the Civil Guard, the General Directorate of Traffic, Prisons, Civil Protection, with more places, better working conditions and pay and better material means that you yourself have cut, and recovering decency in your governing structures and political priorities. [[applause]] You fight bravery with the harassment to which you seek to regain dignity, the government of actions for gravity and the decorum that you squander where you go. To demand in this House and, in general, a high level of dignity, because we do not manage our own affairs, but the general interest of all citizens, and that is why in politics we must demand the highest degree of moral excellence. You, gentlemen of the PP, play by means of devantage to show that your dishonesty is consistent with the entire political class, trying to embarrass the policy and the effort that this government makes every day to put respect and trust in democratic institutions. They continue to have a serious problem with the Constitution and with this Government, which has constitutional and democratic legitimacy. They use bubbles and fake news as their growth strategy to create a fictional image of reality that justifies their political agenda, slandering the work of the Ministry of the Interior and its 170,000 employees. Every initiative they put forward to request reprobation is full of falsehoods. Today is a very inappropriate day to discuss the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior with what is happening in Ceuta, which I would like to remind you that, first of all, it is a humanitarian tragedy and then a question of state, if you have not forgotten what that is, the question of state and the responsibilities that this entails as the first party of the opposition. Be assured that this ministry and its head are working on the fight against mafia and irregular immigration with countries of transit and origin, as well as at European level since we arrived at the government. As I have already told you, today is a very special day and I do not want to make any pronouncements on the subject by referring to what Ministers Marlaska, Gonzalez Laya and the President of the Government themselves have done, expressing the firmness of the Government to ensure security in the face of any challenge, any eventuality and any circumstances. Be assured that the integrity of Ceuta, as part of our nation, its security and citizen peace are well guaranteed. [[Applauds]] The president has shown his determination in the government's actions by travelling today to the cities of Ceuta and Melilla to support the citizens of these two autonomous cities. The Ministry of the Interior, this Government and the Socialists and Socialists are committed to the victims, with all, listen well, with all. I want to finish with a sentence from another countryman of mine, Federico García Lorca. Federico García Lorca, referring to a pond, said: life is like a pond, a pond that seems to be dead or asleep, but just throw a little stone at the center of the pond to wake up the frogs, the birds and all that life that was shining around. Gentlemen of the PP, throw once and for all the stone of understanding and Spain will win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs Vázquez, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak to the parliamentary group that has tabled the amendment and will send it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u95	As soon as they have it, we'll be grateful if they can get it to us. Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RATIFICATION OF CONVENTION 190 ON VIOLENCE AND ASSISTANCE IN THE WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF WORK. [[File number 162/000653]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u96	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention 190 on Violence and Harassment at Work. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u97	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. I'll start with some data. Twenty per cent of workers suffer violence and harassment at work on a daily basis, verbal, physical, isolation, psychological and sexual harassment. Ninety per cent of people who suffer this harassment are women. It is unacceptable, incompatible with decent work, with personal and professional achievement and with mental health. It is necessary to move from words, from lamentations to facts and to put limits on these situations. That is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are bringing here today the debate on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention 190, on violence and harassment at work, seeking the commitment of all groups in this House. We seek recognition of the right of everyone to a world of work free of violence and harassment, which affects all workers beyond their contractual State, their work in public or private, in the formal or informal economy, in the urban or rural world, a protective action of violence and harassment at work, in relation to work or as a result of work: in the dining room, travel, displacement and communications. And I'll take this last one, communications. Note that the adoption of this agreement by the ILO in June 2019 coincides virtually with the Iveco case, which took place at the end of May, which will recall that it alludes to the suicide of an employee of the Iveco subsidiary in San Fernando de Henares as a result of the harassment suffered by the mass dissemination by her colleagues of a video demarcated sexual character. This event helps us to understand the qualitative leap that this convention represents in recognizing the specificity within gender-based harassment, as what doubt may have been that the consequences would have been completely different if the video broadcast with that eminently sexual character affects a male. Gender stereotypes in the workplace continue to weigh, and how. Moreover, this agreement emphasises a reality of harassment that affects our labour market and is more frequent than it should be, since it is women who are the most affected by this violence. And it also proposes the establishment of the link between violence and the work environment, where social networks play a substantial role, because to the extent that harassment materializes through them we must ask ourselves how far the company's capacity to intervene comes. This ratification also requires a reinterpretation of our framework of labour relations, both of the Workers' Statute and of the regulations on the prevention of labour risks, which oblige companies to establish measures, one more reason to leave behind the labour reform of the People's Party and to launch a new Workers' Statute incorporating these normative advances, because we must think about the present and, above all, about the future of work. Workers in this country are aware of the positive responses that the Government has given at this difficult stage that has come to an end, but this will happen and the labour market continues to face many difficulties: to promote indefinite recruitment as standard recruitment; to reduce temporaryity by reinforcing causality in contracts; to prevent the fraud of false temporary contracts for permanent work, false part-time contracts for full-time work, false self-employed contracts with one payer, which overtime is recognized and paid - let us also talk about the right to time -; those are the outstanding duties to create decent employment. And we demand more substantive progress from this parliamentary group also to the government, of course, but being aware of the ballasts, that ballast called the People's Party, capable of not supporting ERTs, created by Zapatero, which have saved 3.5 million jobs and 550,000 companies; that ballast called the People's Party, capable of standing up against the 45% increase in the interprofessional minimum wage under the mandate of Pedro Sánchez; that ballast called the People's Party, able to oppose expanding the regulatory base of workers' benefits, which you yourselves cut in 2012 in a late wave in which in this House a Member of the People's Party was able to say out loud what you really think from the right when you act on the labour market: let the workers get fucked up with that new cut in benefits. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] But this afternoon it should be something else, we should agree on a measure that is colossal in terms of equality, because it is about moving towards a culture of zero tolerance with regard to these violent behaviors and because we must intervene with continuous training to raise awareness not only from the imposition of the sanction, but from the awareness and awareness of all the actors in the world of work. Much progress has been made, but there is a lot of work needed, committed and pending. Workers and their representatives need effectiveness and allies in this Parliament. Socialists take care of us, so today we make our way by walking with a new right, acting with facts, and not with words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that they are not very interested in this issue because it is clear that, as the Socialist Group's spokesman said, this is June 2019 and we are almost in June 2021, with two years of government, and they have done nothing about it, because, certainly, nothing has been said about it, but now it seems that the process is beginning for the government to be able to do so. In fact, the speech has referred to the issue, which seems to me to be very important and very serious, for half the time, and the rest has used it to talk about this labour reform, which must be repeated once again that it will be your problem if you bring it or not and that the breach is yours, because to blame for not changing the labour reform to the People's Party, with eighty-eight Members, is not to want to assume responsibilities. If you don't change the labor reform, which we think repealing is a misconception - we have said it many times - it's because you don't want it, because you have enough votes. Of course, they don't do it either, they bring this proposal today because the Minister of Labour has told us that the legislature started last week; it may be because of that, because the legislature has just begun. [[Applauds]] It's true that so far they haven't done anything, but, man, that's where we recognize that the legislature starts now...! I don't know if it was to harm Mr. Churches or because he really has that idea that so far he's been unable to do anything. And here's the unemployment data: millions of Spaniards in unemployment. And what do we do to correct this unemployment? To say we're going to make a pact with hope. Hey, do you really think that making a pact with hope creates employment in Spain? This is very serious. They bring us a proposal, when they do nothing in the Government, instead of bringing in the measures that the Government can take to create employment. They don't do anything, it's all talk. When are they going to do something concrete, to take some concrete action that generates any job other than in the Government itself? Are you going to do something throughout the legislature? Therefore, what they are proposing is obvious, there is no problem. But you have little concern for this, and even less for the millions of Spaniards who are unemployed, who do not give them any hope, because talking about a pact of hope is not generating jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u100	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u101	Sweep on, good afternoon. Eskerrik asko, president. It is good news that this is about ratifying ILO Convention 190, which stipulates that everyone has the right to a world of work free of violence and harassment. Even if you admit that the labour relations board doesn't change because of what an agreement says, it's important to do so too. It is important because article 190 gives a complete definition of harassment and because it makes visible a hidden reality, covered by injustice, but also by inaction and mechanisms of power, the visible and the invisible, because what is not seen does not exist and makes visible the situation of harassment at work, recognizing it, is one of the premises for changing reality. The existence of harassment at work is not exclusive to any country or culture, it is a global phenomenon, with a serious impact on the lives of workers, but in all cases silent complicity, fear or disdain are factors that contribute to maintaining this reality. These are repeated stories throughout the world that give rise to the possibility of discerning the type of majority harassment, the one where the harasser is man, entrepreneur or co-worker, and the victim is a working woman. And the risk of violence and harassment of women is even greater in times of crisis, we all know that. We recently knew through the media the case of an employee of a cleaning company in Bilbao who had been suffering the harassment of her most responsible for years and years. He endured for a long time humiliations and hostile and humiliating situations. The fear of reprisals, of losing the work that so much needed to paralyze her, until the situation reached such an extreme that it was not enough courage to denounce him, is that he no longer had another way out. Dare to denounce is not easy, and we would therefore like to stress the need to cover the dignity and courage needed to do so. All cases of harassment in the work environment must be pursued, yes, through legal means, but also through action and through the prevention policies that must be implemented. And something else to take into account: it not only happens in private enterprise, it not only happens in the most precarious environments. Moreover, the Administration, health and education are niches in which cases of harassment occur in proportions that may seem unimaginable to us: in reputed centers and organizations, institutional cabinets, universities, public bodies with awards of excellence that are considered fair and equal environments, where women, although mostly not on the hierarchy scale and often, much more often than we might assume, run the risk of being victims of labour and sexual harassment. ILO coined the slogan 'Decent work for all' and Convention 190 regains the concept by recognizing that violence and harassment in the world of work are incompatible with decent work, because it is not decent the work that is carried out without respect for fundamental labour principles and rights, nor is it decent that does not allow a fair and proportional income to the effort made, without gender or any other discrimination or that is carried out without social protection. And in this case, the best preventive policy is quality in employment. And what we expect from this convention of the International Labour Organization is not mere ratification, which is fine, of course. For it to be effective it must assume that in all States there is a legal regulation that is complete, not partial, as there is so far; a comprehensive regulation on harassment at work and that, therefore, covers all aspects: prevention, punitive and reparation and protection of rights, because it is right to change the game, but, in order to change the reality, the board must also be changed. We shall vote in favour. Eskerrik asko, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u103	With your permission, Madam President, I will do it from the seat. ILO Convention 190 is a non-new but necessary measure in the world of work, because it somehow reminds us that violence and harassment are two similar terms in the world of work. Introducing gender as a specific qualification for such violence, which is inadmissible in the world of work, and on 21 June 2019 itself, the date on which the convention was adopted, also, on the occasion of the declaration of its centenary, ILO adopted the criterion of ensuring decent work through concrete measures in the future. This convention is now ratified by only five countries and, although several more have already announced it - among them, Spain - it has not yet been implemented. We believe that the concrete action taken by the Government and Congress to ratify this convention is correct, which raises the question of whether it should have been through a GNP or it should have been another type of initiative that would have served as the basis for our agreement on this matter. We can say nothing about its content until it is ratified. Just remember, above all, the party that supports the Government, the party that supports the Presidency of the Government, that it would have been necessary to bring ratification, not a GNP, which we believe is insufficient. We will support it, but we believe that it must go as soon as possible along the path of ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think we will all agree today that violence and harassment at work continue to exist and remain a worrying issue that as a society we must address and prevent. According to various reports, 17% of women and 15% of men have at some point suffered some form of violent behaviour at work in the European Union. In Spain, 56% of companies still do not have any formal procedures or protocols to deal with situations of violence at work. Some of us, unfortunately, know what we're talking about: you have anxiety, you can't sleep, going to work causes panic attacks and even in some more serious cases prescribe antidepressants; your self-esteem crawls down the floor, we experience lack of concentration, loss of humor, sadness, migraines, chronic fatigue, stress. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about, and I don't follow it because it's tremendously painful for the sufferer or the sufferer. [[The Lord]] Unfortunately, the solution for almost two thirds of victims of harassment at work is to give up their jobs, to put an end to an employment relationship in order to put an end to a situation that torments them, and this is because a large percentage of companies do not take letters in the matter. It is true that our legislation already provides in different texts for the protection of workers in situations of violence and harassment, from article 15 of the Spanish Constitution, where it is generally recognized that everyone has the right to physical and moral integrity, without under any circumstances anyone being subject to any kind of punishment, inhuman or degrading treatment, to the Criminal Code, the Equality Act and the legislation on the prevention of occupational risks. However, we still have a lot of work to do to eradicate this problem of companies and jobs. Convention 190 of the International Labour Organization recognizes that labour harassment limits the opportunities of certain persons who, by their gender, origin, sexual orientation or economic situation, are more likely to suffer harassment or violence at work. This agreement urges us to work towards safe working environments that help prevent these threats: environments of respect, tolerance and dignity of the people, where no behavior that affects their health or physical or moral integrity is tolerated. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we all today vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal presented by the socialist bench, with our commitment to advancing awareness, prevention and response to situations of violence and harassment at work. However, Mrs Peña and ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, draws attention to the fact that, once again, instead of leading this regulatory change from the government and bringing here a ratification or instead of bringing to this House a bill to fight among all in a decisive way by this scourge, you present us with an initiative, a proposal not a law to urge the government to which you are a party to work in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you have the BOP at your service: use it for these things, which are really important to the Spaniards, and not to assign seats on the CNI, please. Leave the toasts to the sun and get to work not only for a plan of Spain 2050, which also, but also for transversal agreements to end violence at work among all, because the installation of yourselves to do something is tremendously useless and a waste of time. I ended up telling them, ladies and gentlemen, that we all deserve to feel safe and free in the workplace, knowing that legislation against violence and harassment protects us, and from Citizens we will continue to work for it to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we will vote in favour, of course, because we know that it is very important, we would say that it is essential to ratify ILO Convention 190 on violence and harassment at work; serious violence, especially when it occurs on account of gender, with very negative consequences, taking into account the area in which it takes place, a difficult area to avoid and where gender power relations are evident. It is, and in this we agree, a violation of human rights and a threat to equal opportunities in the world of work, a world in which the gap between men and women is already immense. Now they will have to explain to us why they once again bring us a non-legislative proposal urging the Government to act. The last time we looked at it, you were the government. The first question, therefore, is why, since 21 June 2019, when this agreement was adopted, it has not been ratified by the Socialist Party Government and why they are not doing so at this time, unless it is because they once again bring a message to their government partners, the so-called third vice-president and Minister of Labour. But we would like, instead of exchanging messages at parliamentary level, to devote themselves to work.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Your time's up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u109	Good afternoon again. The truth is that we are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, but the good thing about the House services as well as the whole issue of the website and public information is that it will allow you to check what I am now going to tell you. One thing that is public and notorious is that the agreement is of 21 June 2019. You know, therefore, that Spain could have ratified it a long time ago. Another thing I do not know if you knew, because it is not so public and well known but you can see it, is that on 1 June 2020 this Member, with registration number 34 642, has already submitted a written question to the Government on where the work to ratify the International Labour Organization Convention 190 is and what was the timetable of the Government, basically because on 2 March 2020, much earlier, the Minister of Labour had already announced that these work was beginning, that three months after the announcement had not yet been resolved. It is true that there has been the pandemic, the state of alarm and what we all know halfway, but my parliamentary question was answered on 13 July 2020, with registration number 44 668, and in it I was told that they were working on it, that there was no need to worry and that, as the minister had announced on 2 March 2020, there were all ministries and the whole government working on this issue. Now the irony of this non-legislative proposal is that the PSOE - which, for the most destitute, is in the Government - calls on the Courts to urge the Government to ratify the convention. For the truth, if, instead of so much parliamentary time between initiatives, press conferences, non-legislative proposals, the Government would put the piles on this issue, it would surely be much easier to deal with what was adopted on 21 June 2019, which is totally necessary to be incorporated into the labour law to defend the rights of so many workers; rather than so much parliamentaryism and so much non-legislative proposal, it would be good for the Government to do the part of the work it has to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u111	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Sometimes I think I don't know what year I'm living, because in this country things like a hundred years ago still happen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2021, in the middle of the 21st century, and I find it outrageous that women, in addition to having to endure male-based violence in the personal sphere, suffer male-based violence in the workplace. Today the majority group brings us to debate a non-legislative proposal for the ratification of the Convention on Violence and Harassment at Work of the International Labour Organization. Well, on issues of this kind, a left-wing group can only cast a favourable vote. But the really relevant thing is to ask yourself: Is it necessary to make a non-legislative proposal for this? And I am not referring only to the general and usual criticism, although not less deserved, of the groups of the Government, which merely advance the legislative activity of the Executive in the form of GNP; I am referring to the fact that we should question whether a matter as obvious as the fight against violence and harassment at work deserves to be delayed through a non-legislative debate, that is, that it will have no other consequence than political impetus to the Government. It should be recalled that ILO conventions raise minimum consensus on a number of issues of particular relevance in the field of work. They are not generators of a new framework of disruptive rights with the current legal order. They simply ensure a floor, minimum rights that any Democrat, and no longer socialist, should aspire to expand. From the point of view of this group, the Kingdom of Spain is not fulfilling its duty to protect the rights of workers with regard to the incorporation of international legislation. This Government has not ratified any International Labour Organization conventions in the past 12 months, and it has not had any opportunities. The Spanish State today has twenty-one ILO conventions and four protocols without ratification; among them, such disruptive or intractable matters, it seems, for example, to be the Convention 118 on equal treatment or the Convention 189 on domestic workers or Protocol 155 of 2002 on the Convention on the Safety and Health of Women Workers. Update, which also does not require any major public debate, much less technical difficulties, and, instead, they would have the opportunity to show their commitment to something as basic, as necessary and as topical as the protection of the living conditions of the working class. Do you know that there is no definition of harassment in state labour law? It doesn't exist. As my colleague in Bildu has rightly said, the existence of harassment at work is not exclusive to any country or culture, but it is a global phenomenon that has an important impact on the lives of workers and serious consequences - very serious consequences - on mental and physical health, which rarely have even a fatal outcome, far more serious consequences on women than on men, in addition to the sexual harassment that we also suffer mostly from women in the workplace. Despite its gravity, the psychological persecution in which harassment materializes is often carried out with the acquiescence of the rest of the members of the organization, who, although fully aware of the abuse and injustice of the situation, refrain from intervening. Therefore - and I conclude - it is cross-cutting, as the third Vice-President and Minister of Labour has already said, but it is more urgent to adapt all the regulations because, in the words of Guy Ryder, Director General of the ILO, he calls to heaven the need to eliminate this flagrant injustice that women live in the working environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u112	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u113	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing ILO Convention 190 on Violence and Harassment at Work. For those who listen to us at home and do not know, these conventions are legally binding international treaties. This means that we are not talking about a purely symbolic issue, since its ratification or non-ratification and subsequent legislative development can and must improve the lives of millions of working people, especially women. To define violence and harassment in the world of work, I will read to you article 1 of the Convention: Designate a set of unacceptable behaviours and practices or threats of such behaviours and practices, whether they occur once or repeatedly and have as their object, cause or are likely to cause physical, psychological, sexual or economic harm, and include gender-based violence and harassment. This agreement protects, for example, in the case of physical and verbal abuse, harassment and intimidation, sexual harassment, threats and stalking, as well as in the case of abusive labour practices that give rise to psychosocial risks and dangers. You know, which leads a lot of people to have to sleep and live on pills. Who would be covered if this Convention 190 were ratified? It protects all persons in the world of work: employed persons, all persons working regardless of their contractual status; persons in training; workers who have been dismissed; volunteers; persons seeking employment and individuals exercising the authority, functions or responsibilities of an employer. This means, for us to get an idea, for example, that if you suffer from a situation of harassment in a job interview or while running on an ETT, you would also be under the umbrella of this agreement. In addition, if the convention is ratified, it will apply to all sectors, whether public or private, whether of the formal or informal economy, as well as in rural or urban areas. Where would workers be covered if this convention were ratified and developed? We would be covered in the workplace, including in public and private spaces where these are workplaces; in places where the worker is paid, where the person takes his or her rest or where he or she eats, and also when he or she uses sanitary, toilet and locker facilities; in travel, in events and in social or deformation activities related to work; in the context of work-related communications, including those made through information and communication technologies, and also in accommodation provided by the employer and on journeys between the home and the workplace. It is therefore important to be clear that the agreement will apply and protect whether harassment takes place, for example, at a working dinner through the WhatsApp or whether it is a client who acts violently and inappropriately. Harassment and violence at work are often a perverse tool to force working people to swallow, accept worse conditions or even put their health and life at risk. That is why we will never, ever, ever tire of encouraging the working people and the general population to syllable themselves, to organize themselves and to demand on and outside the stock, scrupulous compliance with all the institutional tools that serve as protection. There is no better guarantee of rights, stability and mental health than being organized together with colleagues, it is the perfect dyke against abusers. Let us hope that this convention will be ratified as soon as possible and that it will become a more useful tool to avoid unnecessary suffering. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of the 187 ILO members, only 5 have ratified the 190 Convention before us: Argentina, 23 February 2021; Fiji, 25 June 2020; Namibia, 9 December 2020; Somalia, 8 March 2021; Uruguay, 12 June 2021. However, none of these five countries has entered into force. Taking into account the low level of normative activity of the ILO, the birth of this new convention two years ago is a feat, taking into account in these times, where there are few criticisms that question the authority of the great lady of 1919, specialized agency of the UN, both institutions converted into evictions of consciences, speakers of designed global agendas, showy waste of false appearances and in the specific case creator of norms, whose discussion with private rules of transnational application, often achieve mediocre results. Indeed, we are again, albeit biasedly, with the mantra of gender policies trying to temper the importance of what is at stake. As many lawyers have stated, the ratification of ILO Convention 190 entails a unique notion of violence and harassment at work which applies to our legal system, as is said to be a national, obliges us to unify, repair and update existing concepts in our various norms in all fields, and especially in the field of work. There is nothing new about this convention that is not regulated in our legislation, before its ratification we should unravel the different meanings in all legal, doctrinal, and jurisprudential areas that currently coexist to limit all the behaviors that concern us, its causes and results, even more so when our system has already legislated in different areas for all this. Ratification needs some clarifications or limitations, but we must understand how it would fit within our legal system because, as all those with a certain relation to labour law will know, to date harassment situations have almost always been sued against the company when the termination of the contract has been sought through article 50 of the Workers' Statute. For example, this article is a tailor's drawer where everything fits. What, how and how situations of harassment should be regulated really need to be defined. For this reason, it is necessary to have the same legal objectives and not only judicially. We ratify ILO Convention 190, but from here on, what do we do? Do we leave its application to the dawn of the judiciary? What happens when a worker requests a leave for a situation of harassment, spends a time, poses a demand of contract extinction, at the will of the worker, and the sight is celebrated when twelve months of leave have passed? It happens that the judge of instance cannot grant such termination for the long period of leave and the worker must be reinstated, with the consequent suffering that this entails. Therefore, ratification cannot consist only of a yes or no, it must consist of an effort to delineate, as set out in Convention 190 itself, how it will be developed integrated into national legislation. We must not forget that harassment is not committed by the company as such, it is carried out by the person or persons of a company and, therefore, we must delimit their responsibility clearly and decisively, since if the company takes all the measures within its power and the legislator protects it against the harasser, it must not be subject to penalty either directly or subsidly and the force of punishment must fall only on the harasser. [[Applauds]] It is not just a question of saying yes or no, it is a question of protecting both employers and workers in a shared effort, and this cannot be left to the dawn of an automatic application of external rules without clarifying our own. Harassment and violence at work never, I insist, should never be tolerated towards anyone. For VOX dignity lies in morals, that is, in virtue, the heritage of entrepreneurs and workers. Our obligation is to legislate for such dignity at work to prevail and virtue to be excellence, and this convention is certainly not. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u117	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the People's Party will always find us protecting the people who need it, and that is why we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal. We believe in equality and non-discrimination and, above all, we reject harassment and violence in all areas and, of course, also in the field of work. They are a scourge against which we must all fight together, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we ask them to be consistent. More than a year ago, the Government announced the ratification of the convention, exactly 14 months ago. Why haven't they done it yet? They are wrong if they are also in the theory that the legislature has just begun. Good words and intentions are very good, but concrete measures are needed at this stage. We would like to know what legislation they propose to improve the situation, what changes in policies against violence and harassment are going to take place. Only two out of ten judicial complaints about moral harassment at work end with estimation. What actions do they propose, especially in the field of prevention? What about the punitive? Another doubt, who will make these decisions? Will it be Irene Montero, will it be Yolanda Díaz or will it be Vice President Carmen Calvo? It's just that I think you don't even know it yourself, but it will urge you to push both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Equality because of course the Minister of Labour is more focused on the internal issues of your party, trying to free him without going to pick up, than on his competences. They should also squeeze the Minister of Equality, who of course does not know what she is focused on; if she is focused on something, it is of course to maintain the structure of her ministry. Generating quality jobs and achieving a healthy and fear-free work environment is fundamental. But to achieve that they will agree with me that there is a premise, and that there is employment, that there is job creation, and not the destruction that the Socialist Party always generates. In our country there are 5.5 million people seeking employment and not finding it, there are a total of 1,226,200 households that have all their active members unemployed, 40% youth unemployment and 20.3% female unemployment. I know you'd rather skip this data, but whether you like it or not, it's a reality. Of course, they cannot be shielded from the health crisis that we are experiencing, because if the health crisis is occurring symmetrically in the different countries, the economic crisis is affecting differently from the different countries. Pedro Sánchez is a champion of something, of course he has the gold medal for unemployment in Europe, and it is a title that he will continue to hold because unfortunately we see how this government continues to stifle our businesses and our self-employed fiscally. I don't know if you've seen this table that was published yesterday by the Federation of Self-Employed Workers' Associations. [[shows a graph]] Of course you have shameful data, and we wonder from the People's Party what you intend, why you are dedicated to murdering the middle classes. It doesn't make any sense at all. What is the point of defending decent jobs without violence if the real generator of jobs in Spain, which are self-employed, SMEs and micro SMEs, is being charged? Employment is the main tool for combating inequality. There is nothing more exclusive than not having a job. Through employment we women achieve autonomy. If you want to fight for equality, do what the People's Party Government did, which recovered all the jobs destroyed by the economic crisis and made it possible for our country to have the highest rate of women working than ever. If you want to create jobs, forget about destructive counter-reforms in the labour market, because the Labour Reform of the People's Party is the only one that gives alternatives to dismissal, and we have seen it with the ERTE. Gentlemen of the left, they believe that real equality between men and women in all spheres is achieved with a slogan, a photo or a supposed committee of experts, but of course this is not so. Consistency, ladies and gentlemen. Bringing an initiative to eradicate violence when they go hand in hand with parties that do not condemn the violence and murders of ETA is a shame. [[Applauds]] You demonstrate your priorities day by day: first the auto-bomb formulas and then the citizens. So make your way on the way... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs Hoyo, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u119	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the regulatory plan of the Government of Spain in the field of animal welfare. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u120	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank many of the groups in the House, starting with Podemos, with López de Uralde at the head, the Socialist Party, the People's Party, Esquerra or the BNG, who have worked hard to improve this motion, and I believe that we can reach a good agreement. The motion that we are bringing here today as a result of last week's inquiry calls on the Government to do something concrete, in black and white, in the BOE, from that Directorate-General for Animal Rights, as they called it, because we have seen nothing concrete. It is true that last week there were demonstrations and declarations of very interesting intentions by Minister Belarus, which we celebrated and I think it is also behind the agreement that we are going to reach, which is good for everyone. It is very good that we count when here, speaking, we agree many, even though different, to do good things. We have proposed issues such as the creation of a national chip bank, so that a dog does not depend on which autonomous community has been registered and that if lost in another community can be located. We have also proposed the regulation of rearing, because there are quite bad practices in some, especially those coming from outside; in Spain it is a well-exercised activity, but often the absence of control prevents knowing the conditions of rearing. To avoid impulse buying, we propose in this motion that the display in windows be prohibited; it is well known that the animal that is purchased at Christmas is often abandoned in summer. We have also proposed that the sacrificial should appear. You can do it, you can get it. In Malaga, the city from which I am from, Citizens imposed it on the investiture agreement and in Malaga no healthy animals are sacrificed in the zoo. We have proposed campaigns against abandonment and against torture and animal abuse. We have also proposed measures against abandonment. We talked here about what we thought about who is able to leave his luck to an animal who would give everything for him and who is able to step on the accelerator of the car while seeing through the rearview mirror a being who loves him and who depends on him to live. Whoever is able to do this, to condemn him to die of thirst or to let him run down a road, untangled to his run, to a living being of these characteristics must be, in addition to being sanctioned, in a register, which is another of the proposals we make, and that he cannot have an animal again. These people are made from another pasta, from the pasta of the heartless. These people must not be able to have animals in their charge. It is important to train the State Security Forces and Bodies in these matters, who also know well the reading of a chip, who know well the regulations governing these matters. We have recently dealt here with a proposal that originally brought Citizens in 2017, which was my first intervention in this forum and which is the amendment of the Civil Code, the Civil Prosecution Act and some other rules that are affected, so that animals cease to be considered as property; that pets are not considered things, that they are not impregnable, that they are not a television in case of fire or a suitcase in a traffic accident when dealing with emergency services. The hardest part of this motion and the hardest part of what we are dealing with here is the issue of animal abuse, torture and death. We've seen very hard images: people who have fun chasing a wolf until they hit him with a car; we've seen images of a wild boar cornered in a cliff and how they were pinching and laughing at him, pushing with sticks until he fell and was dying at the bottom of the cliff; or, as I told them last week, a person killed a kicking fox and then crushed his head. All these conducts are not punishable under the Criminal Code and we want to promote that. It is not necessary to go very far, this month in Salteras, Seville, a lady locked up without food and water fourteen dogs and they died one by one, surviving some, who remained alive in time devouring the corpses of their companions; three months later they found a single living dog, who did not stand. What pain has this lady fallen on you? A year in prison. In Citizens, we want those who do things like this to be in prison, to have an important criminal response from the state. We can also study opening the administrative route. I told them about the paradigmatic case of torture and the death of 2183 animals, which was only one year in prison. These are the issues that need to be addressed. I would now like to refer to the arguments against this matter. I didn't do it the other day because they weren't going to have a voice in this rostrum and I think a debate is just when you can answer. VOX calls for the turn against this proposal. In addition to calling us animals to whom we defend it, he proposed arguments. I will not disrespect anyone, but I tell you that the human being is the only species with empathy, and from that empathy comes the moral obligation to avoid the suffering and pain of other living beings. Who has no empathy, has a name, and who has empathy, and still considers that he can torture and harm an animal, has another name. Another of the arguments that is heard here very repeatedly is the one known as naturalistic fallacy. Protecting animals goes against nature, the humble ones, it came to say in this rostrum. Naturalistic fallacy - and I think this rostrum is about to debate - is an argumental weakness, which says that as something is in nature it is good. Today, in front of the trans law, we have seen that they have opposed nature; last week in front of assisted reproduction techniques, they again opposed the natural family. I think there was no anthropologist in the room when it came to the natural family, since the natural family looks more like Freddie Mercury's birthday than what you have in mind. The family is the triumph of love over nature and with this it happens the same, because it is not in nature to be vaccinated, neither are the borders, nor are the countries. All of that is an overstatement of nature. I'm done, President. Treating other living beings well is not born of nature...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u121	Mr. Díaz, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u122	I'm done, Mr. President. ... born of goodness. Be good, thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u123	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, in the person of its spokesman, the incombustible Malagasy Member, Mr Díaz Gómez, for the opportunity to talk about an issue that responds to the special sensitivity of many Spaniards towards animal welfare. Already last April this House took into consideration the processing of a proposal for a law amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. Today we present this parliamentary initiative, which, as a result of an inquiry, can only be interpreted as a review of the socialist management of the government of Pedro Sánchez, which, as you all know, has had the Directorate-General for Animal Rights since the first hours of his term, in particular since the end of January last year, which is under the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. The creation of this new Directorate-General for Animal Rights was justified in order to give it an approach dedicated to the promotion of policies for the protection of animals, as well as the coordination of such policies with other departments and other public administrations, and also with the aim of aligning them with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a stranger to the merits that undoubtedly mark the animalistic trajectory of the director general of the matter, I tried to investigate on the Internet and found the next tweet pearl of Mr García Torres, who in June 2018 assured that milk is not necessary and that we are the only mammal who steals milk from another species. Well, this would not be sustained by the Director General in the community I come from either in Galicia or before the farmers. In any case, I will say in your discharge that you later deleted the message, but you raised even more my curiosity about the record of these fifteen months of activity of the Directorate-General for Animal Law and certainly there does not seem to be very significant progress. Minister Belarus herself, the new head of the ministry, pointed out here last week - as the spokesman for Citizens recalled - some legislative intentions of the Government in relation to animal protection, including responsible possession, as well as the reform of the Criminal Code to increase penalties for ill-treatment and abandonment and, in general, to contribute to a culture of respect for animals. But, as I said before, they are only the intentions of the Government, and the reality is that the political balance, after fifteen months of office, is practically null and void. In this area for animal welfare and protection, it is also shown that there is a great deal of interest in Spain, since public participation in a consultation held last December had more than nine hundred contributions from entities, associations, professional and scientific groups and also private citizens. Spain, in any case, needs state-level rules that provide legal certainty and harmonize the abundant and varied autonomous regulations and ordinances of local authorities for the defence and protection of animals; therefore, it seems to me relevant and very necessary that the Government be urged to draw up and submit to the General Courts a draft law on animal welfare incorporating the measures proposed in this motion and providing policy support for issues already being implemented by civil society itself. In this regard, I would like to mention the coordination initiatives being developed by the Spanish Company Animal Identification Network, which allows access to data from millions of registered animals and automatically locates the owner of a pet in case of loss or abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an addendum amendment to remind you that the Government is awaiting a rule that has been urged by this Congress and that, if adopted, would be an outstanding advance in animal protection and animal welfare. I am referring to veterinary VAT, a matter of primary need for pet care services to be re-taxed with the 10% reduced VAT that has been raised since 2012 to the general rate of 21%, with dissuasive effects on the use of these health services, which are also key to public health. Since this variation, visits to the veterinarian have fallen, which is detrimental to the entire prevention and health system of all pets. The reduction of VAT is one of the measures reflected in the coalition agreement and, therefore, in favour of animal protection, I urge the Government to comply with the commitment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u125	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is also setting its position at this time, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. When a couple of weeks ago the proposal for a law amending the Civil Code on the legal regime for animals was debated in this House, the BNG already stated that the reform presented, although correct, had a limited scope, as it would not entail a real change in practice, and we asked to address all aspects related to animal welfare. Therefore, logically, we will support the motion, because it seems to us essential that these matters really be dealt with. However, the BNG introduced amendments, on the one hand, to include in the training and awareness-raising on animal abuse not only the State Security Forces and Bodies, but all those involved in judicial proceedings; and, on the other, to regulate animal sanctuaries according to their specific characteristics. We hope that they will be taken into account. In any case, opening the debate is essential if political forces are to be able to bring about real and not merely aesthetic or formal changes. That's what we're waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u127	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u128	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Díaz, I would tell you that we share the essence of everything you propose, but I think your initiative has some cracks that we are going to try to resolve now. The first is the competition issue. You know that many of the measures they incorporate here have already been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, by the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia and even by the Government of the Community of Madrid, such as the display of animals in windows. So when you raise this, you should mention that this proposal has already been discussed and approved in many autonomous communities, such as, in this case, in the Parliament of Catalonia. You talk about banning wild animals in circuses and even a national database. You, who are from Malaga, do not notice, but I, who am from Girona and we are bordering France, would tell you that what we should bet on is a data bank that is not national, but European, because a dog crosses the border much easier than a person, so we should be a little more ambitious and try to make this bank not national, but European. And the last thing for me is his big crack. You mentioned that scene that I remember perfectly from some savages throwing a wild boar at a stick by a ravine. I would say that among these savages killing a wild boar with sticks and killing a bull in a square there are three differences. The first is the clothes; some were hikers and the others are well dressed. The second is the technique; it must be recognized that bullfighters know the technique to kill the animal. And the third, which is the only one that saves him, is that one has a cultural patina that others do not have; but for the purpose of the animal's suffering, Your Honor, you will recognize that he suffers just like that boar as a bull in a square.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u129	Your Honor, thank you very much, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. We could say that when destiny is animal welfare it is easy to share the way. We are aligned with the proposals of this motion, many of them, according to Minister Belarus, incorporated into the Government's preliminary draft law. In Catalonia, as is known, the majority have been applied for years: the zero sacrifice of abandoned animals, the prohibition of unnecessary mutilation and the non-exposure of animals in windows for sale. And they could be added as issues to regulate animal evacuation protocols in states of emergency, the regulation of measures to prevent collision accidents or hooks in wired and fenced or to prevent drowning in rafts, ponds and water tanks and the control of irregular shopping on the Internet. It is also a step forward the Minister's announcement of the other day regarding the elaboration of a real decree of Surveillance Consumption in slaughterhouses or that the next Science Act should include the obligation in animal testing laboratories to have video surveillance systems to monitor the treatment of animals. However, I must say that it is a shame that in the middle of the 21st century, despite the European guidelines, no greater effort is made to end animal experimentation, especially in those actions which have nothing to do with public health, but, for example, with cosmetics. Every year more than 800,000 animals are tested in this country. Above all, we will be waiting for our powers to be respected and we also expect the reform of the Criminal Code to extend protection beyond domestic animals. Meanwhile, we insisted from Catalonia on the claim of point (f) of our Animal Protection Act, which dropped from article 6, which prohibited the holding of bullfights. But know that what was considered a stockpiling of Catalan society is becoming a flag for this government year after year; a government that we could say that, on the one hand, caresses the cat and, on the other, tortures the bull.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We Can In Common We Can Galicia in Common, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for us that the subject of animal welfare is once again in this House; in this case, by the motion of the Member of the House of Citizens, Guillermo Díaz. I wanted to begin by replying to Isidro Martínez Oblanca about the reference he has made to the activity of the Directorate General for Animal Welfare. Firstly, I believe that the work that has been done during the pandemic must be recognized. We forget that we have been living in very harsh conditions of confinement for a year, but I want to show you - although I am not - that nothing less than the National Union of Police Chiefs and Directors has rewarded Sergio García Torres, Director General of Animal Welfare, for his work during the pandemic, because the animals were also there during the pandemic. [[Shows a press clipping]] And precisely, thanks to the work of this Directorate-General, the need to keep them fed, to keep them alive and to maintain that work was taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] I think it is necessary to remember that certain rules can be delayed because, as I say, we come from a pandemic, but during that time, and despite being a new-found general management, it has been working and that work has indeed had a recognition of agencies such as the police. In any case, as societies move forward, animal concerns are also on the rise. This is no longer a question of urban society, but also of rural society, of all our societies. The Society, which is becoming increasingly aware, calls for the implementation of legislation to promote respect for and protection of animals, as well as in other countries in our European environment. In this sense, we have already discussed and approved in this plenary the proposed law presented by the PSOE and the United We can on the amendment of the Civil Code so that the animals cease to be things and become sentient beings. It has also passed the public consultation phase prior to the Royal Decree of the State System of Registers of Animal Protection, which aims to coordinate the registers of identification of pet animals in a single consultation space. Another rule that has also passed the consultation phase is that relating to the zoological nuclei of pet animals, which unifies the multitude of rules on these spaces, which are, in short, the places where animals live, creating the figure of animal sanctuary that until now was in the legal limbo. And we are also working on the preliminary draft amendment of the Potentially Dangerous Animals Act to create a system that qualifies dogs individually for their behavior and not for their race. With regard to the preliminary draft national animal protection law referred to in the motion, which is in the PSOE and United Podemos government agreement, we are moving forward rapidly in the motion and will include many of the aspects contained in its motion. The purpose of the law will be to achieve the maximum level of protection and welfare of animals, primarily those of companionship and those under the responsibility of individuals. Actions aimed at achieving this aim as provided for in the law shall be to promote responsible tenure and coexistence; to promote civilism for the defence and preservation of animals; to combat ill-treatment and abandonment; to promote adoption; to implement training, dissemination and information activities in the field of animal protection; to promote campaigns for identification, vaccination and sterilization, breeding and responsible sale; to promote administrative actions in the field of animal protection; to establish a framework of obligations in the field of animal protection and welfare, etc. There are some aspects of your motion that we have already talked about, and therefore I am not going to refer to them, but I did want to stop a little bit in the amendment of the Criminal Code, which we share and which we have already tabled and tried to carry on in the last legislature. I fully agree that it is another different law - it is not the law on animal welfare - but the Penal Code must be amended so that it effectively includes all animals, not only domestic animals, but also wild animals. In short, we thank you for the introduction of this motion. As we say, it is good news that, more and more naturally, we can talk in this plenary about animal welfare, an issue that is actually becoming more and more worrying for the Spanish and Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u133	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs García-Pelayo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled a block of amendments with the sole objective of improving the content of this motion that we generally share, and we will support the compromise. Our amendments are aimed at preventing abandonment by incorporating a national data bank into the animal welfare bill, taking advantage of the databases available to veterinary schools in the various autonomous communities. We also request that the figure of the amateur breeder be recognized and that the requirements of the breeding centres be included in the law. We call for a ban on the display of animals in displays to promote responsible adoption and acquisition or purchase, and finally, upon request, for organisations for the protection and defence of animals to be recognised as public utility entities. As I said a moment ago, in general my group shares the content of this motion - the compromise will reflect this - and I believe that not only does my parliamentary group do, but most of the groups in this House. This must be the case, because just two months ago this plenary almost unanimously adopted a bill which involved amending the Civil Code so that, in the same line as in the European Union, we would not only consider animals, but treat them - and this is most important - as sentient beings rather than things. For that step, which I consider humanizes us even more if it fits, it is inescapable that we do not stay there and take decisive steps for the protection of animals and the guarantee of their welfare, because they need and deserve our care, but also our affection and respect. They alone cannot and need us, as representatives and, therefore, the voice of an increasingly sensitive and also more sensitive society, to adopt the necessary measures and channels to isolate or socially point out those who abuse and abandon them, and to support - why not say so too - all those who care for and protect them and raise awareness and form society for both. It is true that the motion, like our amendments, contains aspects that could be included in the text of the bill. Our amendments are a road map that can make the road easier. In any case, our proposals leave the Socialist Government in evidence. But the big thing is that not only do our amendments leave the Socialist Government in evidence, but it also draws attention to the fact that the Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendments make the other part of the Government, that is, the part of Podemos. Why? Well, because the socialist side of the government is telling the director of animal welfare - or animal rights - and we can say that they are not doing the job, that they are not fulfilling their obligation. [[Applauds]] Even the socialist side goes on to say to the part of Podemos of the government that it has to bring an animal welfare law; but not only that it brings an animal welfare law, but that it even asks it to bring a state system of registers, that the zoos are regulated, that potentially dangerous animals are also regulated... I mean, they're telling you with your package of amendments to we can that they're doing nothing in the government. I don't know if you're doing anything or really not doing anything, but the truth is that you yourselves - not only do we put the colored face on the government - are self-flagelling and self-moulding. The Director-General collects EUR 80 000 and manages a budget of EUR 4.5 million. Too much, Mr. Spokesman. That you worked during the pandemic? The peak would be that he would have been confined to his home as well and not even a teleworker. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. That is why I say to you that of course we are going to work with the rest and with society in the processing - when they bring it - of the proposal or of the animal welfare bill; a bill that they had to bring in a year ago and that Minister Belarus has extended until the end of 2021. But we ask you, in any case, to have a consensus; to listen to the autonomous communities; to have the law be constitutional, so that it does not happen the same thing that is happening in some autonomous community; to have the municipalities have resources; to have the judges have the necessary instruments; and, of course, that it is not a populist law, that it is a law of all, because the animals are of all, we all have animals. That's why it's important to forget about populism... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Pelayo. Your time's up. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u136	Thank you, President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u137	Wait a minute, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] I pray silently. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, a democratic society like ours is a society that is moving inexorably towards new citizens' rights and shared responsibility on our planet. We have already made progress in rights in many areas and always, although some of them are hurt, by the hands of the socialist governments. Now is the time to move forward on animal welfare and protection policies, as a Socialist Parliamentary Group and also as a progressive government. We cannot stay behind, because, ladies and gentlemen, social welfare policies are progress, labour protection policies are progress, equality policies are progress, climate change policies are progress and animal welfare and protection policies are also progress. [[Applauds]] Animalist policies have to be addressed in an ambitious and uncompromising manner, as societies have advanced in animalist sensitivity and we have an obligation to legislate by shaping what society demands of us. To legislate in order to raise awareness and educate, as the Education Act recently adopted already contains, because the children of our country have to grow up with empathy and respect for the planet on which we live and for the rest of the animals with which we live. Our commitment to protection and well-being is reflected in the Socialist Party's electoral programme and also in the document 'Open proposal for a common progressive programme', which states that we will drive through policies, programmes and research the WHO's One Health approach. This approach understands that people, animals and the environment are part of the same ecosystem and their health and safety are closely related, as we have unfortunately seen in this pandemic. We will also promote an animal welfare law that guarantees a respectful relationship to all living beings on this planet, which, as the scientific community points out, are also sentient beings. In line with these programmatic commitments, we have presented the proposed law to amend the Civil Code so that the animals we live with are not considered things. Obviously, the animals we live with are not suitcases - as Mr Díaz commented - that can be left in a car when we have a traffic accident; they are sentient beings, they are part of our families and as such we want them also to be rescued by emergency services. We have also recorded a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to amend the Criminal Code in order to punish animal abuse in an appropriate and forceful manner. Ladies and gentlemen, killing a kicking animal, recording it and above it you will enjoy cruelty, it is mistreatment and it is violence. [[Applauds]] We want a society free of violence: free of macho violence, free of violence against children, free of violence towards which it is different and towards which it thinks differently, free also of violence and animal abuse. Many of these violences are intertwined and we need to lay the groundwork for a more dialogueable and less threatening, more open and less retrograde, more plural and more respectful society. In this connection, we have tabled amendments to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to urge the Government to adopt legislative and regulatory amendments to animal protection, as already stated in the compromise, and above all one point that we also consider very important, which is to continue to develop measures and campaigns to raise awareness and raise awareness about animal protection, because, ladies and gentlemen, awareness and awareness against abuse are very important. In addition to the commitment to the protection of this parliamentary group, the Government has also made a clear commitment to animal welfare and protection since, for the first time, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has the Directorate-General for Animal Rights, which places animal policies in an important place and has a clear and well-defined legislative agenda, because, ladies and gentlemen, the welfare and protection of the animals with which we live is also well-being for people. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have lived and unfortunately we are still living a terrible pandemic with very important consequences for physical and mental health. Remember those people who have lived alone during this pandemic. I have spoken to some of them - I am sure you have, too - and despite the differences, divergences and different situations, do you know what many of them have told me? He saved my dog, he saved my cat, he saved my pet. They have helped them to stand up, they have helped them to be active and not to fall into despair in moments of loneliness. Therefore, Your Honor, we will support your motion with the compromise we have been making. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly because most of the fundamental, basic and important issues of this motion have already been said and I think we agree with most of the speakers, unless we have some final surprise. We share and participate in the spirit of this motion, because we have agreed on more than one issue where we legislate and where we have had the opportunity to raise it. We understand the spirit of Mr Díaz, and it is true that we need a legal umbrella for the protection of what we call pet animals, because I believe that in this regard we should also have a clear question. Animal welfare, as such, in the sense of what is defined as income animals or productive animals, has its own legislation, a European directive that incorporates the concept of animal welfare for farm animals, etc., and those are even regulated in the CAP. Therefore, perhaps we are referring more to pet animals - perhaps we would have to change the title - although the pet animal is also a very broad element. And it is also true that there are other animals that without being productive nor even company-you yourself have reflected it - have suffered abuse, harassment and even murder clearly by the mere fact of doing so. Therefore, these issues need an umbrella under which to be defined. It is true, therefore, that the definition of the subject of rights - to say the least - is perhaps an element that may be varying in a nebula in which we are not clear on the definition, but we must all understand which animal, which element is being mistreated, is being vexed by the mere fact, as I said, of doing so, without any other pretension. In the Basque Parliament, the draft law on the protection of pet animals is currently under way, and in this regard it says in its preamble: The concern for animal welfare in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was reinforced by the Treaty of Lisbon with the consideration of farm animals - farm animals - as sensitive beings. Thus, he understands that animals are capable of feeling pleasure and pain and that in attention to this characteristic they cannot be treated as mere objects. There is nothing to object to about what has been said here and I believe that there is therefore full agreement with the legislation that we are also carrying out in Euskadi. Moreover, he even said that the European Convention on the Protection of Pets had entailed new legal requirements, such as the prohibition of the mutilation of animals for aesthetic reasons and the establishment of basic principles for the welfare of animals and their possession. It is clear that in the social and cultural development of our environment and of the ideological and thought currents in favour of considering animals as subjects of rights we are witnessing a process of change in this sense, a change in the consideration of respect for these animals and in the awareness of a greater degree of protection and well-being for all of them. This is, therefore, what is currently also being dealt with in the Basque Parliament, in the thread and in the spirit of what is intended to be legislated here. In any case, although we would have almost no problem, there are a number of issues that do not seem to be fully defined and should be raised, because, as we always say, as important as the egg is the furo. In that sense, what you define as a national data bank should be seen to what extent it is competent and who is competent in this matter when it comes to carrying out a question of this kind, because we must not forget that - unless these are basic issues that the State can legislate - this matter must be legislated. Therefore, we have our doubts on this matter. On the issue of money for the municipalities we agree, of course, because they are the ones who have to keep the kennels, etc. In the case of Euskadi, it is not the State that has budgets, so it should be seen that in those matters in which we have our outside regime and we have our economic concert and our fiscal capacity, it is the relevant institutions that provide these resources to these municipalities. So I ended up saying that we basically agree and we will see what the final text is in order to fix our definitive position, which in no case will be the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the position-fixing shift. Then Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u142	Thank you very much, President. These weeks we are immersed in the processing of a law that we consider to be of great importance, one of those laws in which one perceives that we are really legislating in tune with the great changes of consciousness and that make progress mature societies. These are great laws that really mean social advancement, conception and awareness. Although it is late and for our group it will surely be insufficient, it is a turning point. It creates the legal bases that allow protection and ultimately the improvement of animal welfare. It involves a reform of the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act that affects the legal regime of animals so that they are considered free beings with sensitivity and not things. In fact, this reform of the Civil Code implies a great change of paradigm, of being considered a simple object, a thing, now living beings with sensitivity acquire the category of subjects, with the legal and criminal implications that this new consideration entails. A subject should not be mistreated without consequences. A guy shouldn't be killed without consequences. But can a guy have a master, a landlord? Can a guy sell himself? Indeed, with these questions and with that initiative, an ethical debate opens - and this is where I want to focus - that puts us in front of a mirror and shows the scale of values of our society and the capacity of relationship and empathy of our environment as a species. This civil reform, which should be reinforced by a reform of the Penal Code in order to be effective, will allow for greater legal protection for other species that share and form our environment and, in fact, entails recognition - and this is important - of the ability to feel the animals and also a gesture of empathy and respect on our part. That's why I say it's a law of great silence. A consciousness that took advantage to remember that it has been taking shape from the close coexistence with domestic animals, which are considered members of the family, and the struggles also - let us remember - in defense of the biodiversity of the endangered species. In this consciousness, animalistic and protective groups have played a fundamental role, which deserve recognition in this regard. Once legal protection has been articulated, it will be time to start implementing concrete measures, and precisely this Citizens' motion contains numerous concrete proposals for actions that go beyond even the same legal framework and that we share for the most part. In any case, I just want to point out that it is important for each Administration to take care of what it has to do without encroaching on the competitive spaces of others, and I am not just talking about the autonomous communities, but even at the local level, at the municipal level. Thus, we consider the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code to be very relevant. We regret that the proposal for a law that we considered on 20 April last does not include them in that sense, or the guarantee of budget allocation for local entities. We also find interesting the amendments tabled on the reduction of veterinary VAT, which - remember - was a proposal that our group launched a long time ago, or specific training for judges and prosecutors. At the same time, there are a number of issues that, even if we agree, we would have to see their exact implementation in the bill to assess whether or not autonomous or local competencies are invaded, as we commented. For example, it is proposed to restrict or prohibit the use of wild animals in circuses, which is already happening precisely in the entire Catalan Country thanks to the animal welfare laws adopted by the parliaments of Catalonia, País Valencià i Illes Balears and I believe that in other autonomous communities. But in general, taking into account the non-binding nature of this initiative and waiting to see the amendments accepted by the proposing group, we agree with the spirit of the motion and will therefore receive our support. The Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 already pointed out last week that in fact this law will allow to deploy much more concrete actions in different areas, such as the reform of the Criminal Code to extend protection beyond domestic animals, a state system of registers of state protection, a royal decree of zoos, regulation of the online sale of animals and other projects that she was defining. In any case, any initiative that entails greater protection and improvement of animal welfare will count on our support, provided that it takes into account the competitive framework. In the agreement reached between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the United Nations We put, in December 2019, which contemplates precisely the commitment to promote an animal welfare law, both political formations undertook to study the possibility of establishing a crime of mistreatment of wild animals in their natural environment, a review of penalties for abandonment of domestic animals and improvements in the control of domestic animals and in the control of the production of consumer animals. In this sense, we cannot establish different categories based on whether they are domestic animals or not, therefore on the basis of their degree of humanization. That is why we believe it is a priority to extend this protection to wild animals in the natural environment or even, on the other hand, to start thinking about improvements in the control of production of consumer animals both as regards... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u143	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up, thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Nevado del Campo, ladies and gentlemen, silence, please. This is the last intervention of the day, we will listen respectfully.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all I have to tell the honourable Member that he has preceded me in the shift that does not exist in our order Valencià Country, it is Valencian Community. [[Applauds]] Today, defenders of the extermination of life in the mother's womb and euthanasia want to promote an animal welfare bill, an amendment in line with the 2030 Agenda that seeks to dehumanize man and humanize animals. They request, first, the development of a national database of identification chips to which both veterinarians and State Security Forces and Corpses can access, as well as public and private security guards and shelters. This register has been in operation for 25 years and is available to veterinary professionals and safety bodies. We do not see the necessity or convenience of access to this data to any other institution, much less private, without knowing the intentions of its use. What would be consistent is that instead of seventeen non-interconnected registers, there would be only one at the national level. They want to improve controls and supervise breeders, monitor the provenance of animals that are put on sale, and we add that as long as everyone is free to decide whether or not they want their dogs to have offspring. Or will the government also get its hands on whether or not we should have offspring with our animals? What will be the following, limiting the number of children we should have, as they do in China? They propose that animal mutilations, especially those motivated by aesthetic reasons, be banned and, at the same time, look sympathetically at transspecies or zoosexuals and the aberrant physical transformations to which they are subjected. But, ladies and gentlemen, the prohibition of the mutilation of ears or tails to dogs is generating very serious infections as a result of the injuries they suffer in their work or by the behaviors peculiar to their instincts. They also call for the amendment of the Criminal Code to aggravate the custodial sentences linked to animal abuse, and I suppose they do so by referring to these people, those heartless people who are mentally disturbed and who abuse animals. That issue is sufficiently regulated in the Criminal Code, and what we should do is consider these people as what they are: people with mental disorders who need to be monitored for their mental health and given the treatment they need. They also want to be restricted or banned from the use of wild animals in circuses, but in Spain there are 3,000 families living there, who have been locked up in a tent for fourteen months without being able to work. The circus professionals live very closely with their animals and take care of all their care not only because of the emotional bond that unites them but also because it is their means of life. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we hope that this motion does not result in another crazy animal welfare law, such as the one they presented with the PSOE in La Rioja, so that the Constitutional Court will then have to place them. Learn from the mistakes and stop presenting these kinds of initiatives to join the cart of hypocritical goodism on the left, and less so after having supported each and every one of the immoral policies of this government. [[Applauds]] The position of man over the animal throughout existence must lead us to the distinction between wild animals, working and producing animals and pets. Do not distort it or want to modify the nature of the animal itself. Care, respect and responsible tenure. The human being must be at the center of the order. Only in this way can the three basic rules of which Ulpiano spoke be fulfilled: to live honestly... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nevado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote and in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to put an end to the amendment adopted at the beginning of today's plenary session, so that point 29, which relates to the validation or repeal of real decree-laws, is discussed at the time initially envisaged. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. We vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u147	We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Republican and Plural parliamentary groups for the real and effective equality of trans-nationals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 108 plus 233 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 7 plus 71 telematics votes, 78; against, 43 plus 100 telematics votes, 143; abstentions, 58 plus 62 telematics votes, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u148	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING LAW 39/2007 OF 19 NOVEMBER 2007 OF THE MILITARY FRAMEWORK, TO ESTABLISH A SINGLE PROFESSIONAL REGIME FOR THE PROFESSIONAL MILITARY. [[File number 122/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u149	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, amending Law 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career, in order to establish a single professional regime for professional military personnel. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 108 plus 234 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 65 telematics votes; against, 108 plus 169 telematics votes, 277.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-18-CD210518.u150	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
