ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the agenda item for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 20/2021 of 5 October, by which urgent support measures are taken for the reparation of damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the economic and social reconstruction of the island of La Palma. To present the Royal Decree-Law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. [[Rumors]] Take your seats, please, the session will begin. [[Rumors]] I'm asking for a little silence. Thank you very much. Minister, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u2	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for being here at this early hour. I compare with all of you to request the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2021, by which urgent measures were taken to repair the damage caused by the eruption of the Old Summit volcano and the economic and social reconstruction of the island of La Palma. Before I enter into the content of this royal decree-law and speak to you about its importance, I want my first words to be of encouragement and solidarity with palm trees and palm trees and, in particular, I want to transfer all the support and all the affection of the Government of Spain to the neighbours of Los Llanos de Aridane, El Paso and Tazacorte, the municipalities that are suffering the most from the eruption of the volcano; all our affection, all our solidarity and all our work so that, as soon as possible, they will recover normality in their lives. [[applause]] It has been almost two months since the volcano manifested itself with an unusual destructive capacity, a capacity that far exceeds the memory of the older neighbours of any eruption that has occurred in recent years; two long months in which we have not failed to observe the devastating consequences that the volcano is having and the passage of lava through municipalities, industrial farms, agriculture, commerce and housing, as well as the terrible consequences that the volcano has had on the life projects of the inhabitants of the island. Just over a year ago, the Cabildo named La Palma's adoptive daughter Elsa López. Reading the verses of this humanist, those who dedicate to these small points on the map of her soul, thrills to discover her love of the landscape and also to the people who inhabited and inhabit the island. His awareness of being, being and belonging to that island is the same as that expressed today by the neighbors affected by the eruption. Their stories are still overwhelming; they convey, in greater depth, the consequences of this natural catastrophe, a catastrophe that has forever erased some of these points on the map and, at the same time, caused whole families to lose everything, to be left homeless, to be signaled, to be left homeless, to be left homeless. They have lost the memory of their lives and their future projects, at least in the place and in that geographical space in which their roots lie. However, palm trees and palm trees have not been alone at any time. From the very day of the eruption, on Sunday, September 19, they received the visit of the President of the Government, that same afternoon, to show the total commitment of the Government of Spain to the reconstruction of the island of La Palma. As with the pandemic, the La Palma emergency has shown that, when societies suffer a misfortune, the public is what will always be there to protect us all, a safety net for all citizens when things go wrong. Our welfare state and, in general, the set of services provided by all public administrations constitute a network of insecurity that sustains us when we face a crisis. The eruption of the volcano has again made it clear that public resources are the point of support in order to be able to face any contingency. Thanks to them, scientific knowledge has been generated that has saved lives; thanks to them, the material damage suffered by so many families and businesses is being alleviated, and thanks to them we are going to rebuild infrastructure, economic and social activity and we are going to recover normality on the island of La Palma. [[Applauds]] That is why, from this rostrum, I would once again like to claim the value of the public and the importance of working day-to-day to consolidate and strengthen our welfare state. We need a strong and efficient State that preserves the general interest, because the public is not everything, but for many people it is the only one that prevents them from losing everything, and the public is also the instrument that ensures a future for all and for all. Therefore, from the very beginning, the Government has been very clear about its priority: to mobilize all the necessary resources, all of them, to address the needs of the inhabitants of the island of La Palma. The actions have been carried out in three phases. As you know, the first was the prevention phase, and there the predictive work of the experts and the rapid evacuation of the island and the areas most affected by the island authorities managed to make us not regret the loss of human lives today. It's been a quick and effective operation. My sincere congratulations to all those who participated in that evacuation operation. The second phase is the response to the emergency, in which we are: to ensure that people who have lost everything have their basic needs covered; to eliminate obstacles and untenable costs at this time and, ultimately, to lay the groundwork for those who have lost their homes or their livelihoods or both to have sufficient resources to start over and not to do so from scratch. And this brings us to the third phase, that of the reconstruction of the island, a reconstruction that is going to be solid integral, that we are already designing and advancing at this time and that we will put into practice as soon as the volcano finishes to launch lava. We'll try to complete it as soon as possible. From the very beginning we were clear that it was necessary to devote all our efforts to helping palm trees and palm trees and we were also clear that, in order to deal with this situation in an orderly manner, it was necessary to coordinate the various public administrations with competence on the island. The pandemic has already shown us the value of co-governance and the importance of collaboration between different administrations to add and coordinate efforts. The success of vaccination is a good test of co-governance. Therefore, as we begin to design and adopt measures, we create two institutional cooperation mechanisms that are being key for aid to be approved and to be adopted as soon as possible. On the one hand, we have the joint commission, where we share the space of the central government, the autonomous government, the lobby and the three municipalities most affected by the eruption of the volcano. We work side by side with codopersons from different administrations and different political signs for a single purpose: to help people affected by the volcano eruption who are having difficulties. Indeed, it is an example of institutional collaboration and between administrations the mixed commission that is set up to help palm trees and palm trees. On the other hand, within the framework of the Government of Spain, we set up an interministerial commission in which at least twelve ministers and ministers participate and where those necessary are incorporated according to the subject to be dealt with. In this forum we design, coordinate and adapt the central government's support to the needs transmitted to us from the island, from the joint commission and from the government delegation and the Canary Islands authorities. As a result of this collaboration, in record time, we approved a first package of immediate impact measures, just a week after the eruption. These measures included: firstly, EUR 10.5 million for housing and childcare. Secondly, the declaration of the area seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection throughout the island of La Palma, which we previously referred to as a catastrophic zone, has made it possible to activate much of the initiatives that include the law, for example, the aid of the Insurance Compensation Consortium, of which more than EUR 25 million has already been paid to the palm trees concerned. Thirdly, specific ERTEs were recognised for companies affected by the volcano. Just a week after this first package of measures, on 5 October 2021, we approved in the Council of Ministers the royal decree-law that I come today to present to you all and to request its validation, whose estimated amount of 214 million euros. This is an aid package which aims to provide a cross-cutting and sufficient response in the short term and, in the medium term, to achieve a solid recovery from the island. It is about helping people rebuild their lives, their life projects, with everything that implies: their home, their jobs, their businesses, their farms, their tranquillity, their future. And it's also about helping companies regain their business by trying to keep them out of business. To this end, the Royal Decree-Law includes two categories of measures. Firstly, subsidies and direct aid to alleviate damage to housing, premises, productive, agricultural, fisheries, infrastructure and the environment. Secondly, a package of actions to support and boost the economic and social reconstruction of the island. In total, it includes aid in ten areas which I list. Firstly, aid for housing and business, which includes direct aid to local corporations to cover expenditure arising from the emergency, with up to 100 % of the expenditure covered, and aid to natural persons who have suffered damage to their homes, industrial, commercial or service establishments. Secondly, there are measures relating to employment, social security and pension schemes. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the extraordinary employment and training plan, which will be agreed in the coming weeks and which amounts to EUR 63 million for the island of La Palma. We have already approved at the Council of Ministers on 26 October the contingency fund necessary to cover this 63 million euros. Thirdly, the group of measures dealing with the agriculture and fisheries sector. It includes direct aid to farmers and livestock farmers who are already in operation. Last week the Council of Ministers approved a subsidy to the Autonomous Government of the Canary Islands amounting to 18.8 million euros for this purpose, aid to farmers and livestock farmers. Fourthly, supply measures are included so that self-employed people and businesses can temporarily suspend electricity contracts. I should like to inform you that more than 1600 beneficiaries have already benefited from this measure and that an amount of around EUR 65 000 has not been invoiced. Fifthly, the block refers to infrastructure and mobility. It includes, for example, EUR 40.5 million for the reconstruction of the island's road network and EUR 22 million for the repair of infrastructure, equipment, installations, services and health facilities. Sixthly, we have also included fiscal measures, including, for example, the current year's IBI exemption and the reduction of the IAE for commercial establishments. As you also know, the Council of Ministers on Monday of the same week approved the exemption of both the IRPF and the company tax so that no natural or legal person has to tax on the aid he received as a result of the volcano eruption. Seventhly, we have also taken measures to protect consumers. For example, we have suspended the time limits for exercising the right of withdrawal in the procurement of goods and services or have exempted from the performance of contracts for the sale or provision of services and supplies which result from impossible compliance and, lastly, the most important measure in this block is the suspension of interest and principal payment obligations for loans and credits both if they are mortgages and if they are not. The eighth group of measures focuses on strengthening social services and the protection of victims of gender-based violence, to which we have dedicated EUR 5 million for social services and EUR half a million for the strengthening of shelters and psychological care for victims of gender-based violence. In the ninth place, biodiversity recovery, protected natural spaces and research. We have allocated 15 million euros to recover the socio-economic and environmental environment of the La Palma Biosphere Reserve, 10 million euros to recover the area of socio-economic influence of the National Park of Caldera de Taburiente and 15,3 million euros to repair damage to biodiversity and natural heritage. Finally, measures have been put in place to speed up all procedures and to set up strengthened systems of legal, notarial, judicial and consultation assistance in the property register, and efforts are also being made to facilitate the process of application and grant of aid as soon as possible. I have told you many measures, ladies and gentlemen, many, but they are not all. After passing this royal decree-law, we have continued to adopt more measures, because every day we are observing the needs of the island and we are adopting measures that are essential to recover the normality of palm trees and palm trees as soon as possible. Yesterday, we published in the BOE the order that allows the marketing of bananas with aesthetic damage, but perfectly suitable for consumption; a very important measure for the banana sector on the island of La Palma. Ladies and gentlemen, the volcano continues to erupt. Flights are affected, air quality, the activity of educational establishments. The mountains of the southwest of the island are now a sea of ash and there has even been a morphological and topographic change on the island. The Old Summit volcano doesn't give a truce, it's going to be the most important eruption of the last century. This is why the intense and collaborative work of all the public administrations involved in the reconstruction of the island is increasingly important. We said from the government that we would not forget La Palma, and we have not. This government is fulfilling. It will maintain its commitment until full normality is restored on the island of La Palma. The President of the Government has visited the island six times, the last one last Friday, and it will not be the last. Many ministers have also had the opportunity to visit the island of La Palma on the ground. We have experienced firsthand the sadness of the island's inhabitants and we have also been surprised by their integrity, even in a limit situation like this, which has put their resistance to the test. Our commitment to La Palma is permanent and will continue in time. Be assured that our work will not end when the volcano stops throwing lava, but when all those affected recover their lives before 19 September. We will only terminate our mission there when all the people concerned have taken up their life plans in a normal way. We are facing a tragedy of great human and material dimensions. There are, of course, material goods and personal feelings that can never be recovered and it is not easy to give comfort in that situation, but those affected by the volcano may have hope. I conclude by addressing palm trees and palm trees again in order to renew publicly the commitment of the Government of Spain to all of them, and surely all parliamentary groups in this House will also share this commitment with the island of La Palma. I want to convey to you trust and I want to convey to you that you can have hope. What defines a country is not tragedy that it suffers, but how it addresses it; we have done it with the pandemic and we are going to do it with La Palma. The days of distress and the nights of earthquakes will end and the moment of reconstruction will come. There are sufficient resources, they are coming, they will arrive more, those that are necessary. It has already begun to alleviate the economic and productive damage suffered by the island as a result of the eruption. We've got a lot of work ahead of us. The words spoken by the king and the president of the government stimulate us, guide our actions and express the feeling of all without exception of helping the island of La Palma until it regains normalcy. [[Applauds]] The inhabitants of the island of La Palma must know that we are not going to abandon them, that we are going to be there, that La Palma has never been so close to us, because it is now that they need us most, when they need all of you most. With the help and solidarity of all, we will get the inhabitants of the island of La Palma to restart their abundant life projects and return to the situation they had before the eruption of the volcano on 19 September. We're going to get ahead, we're going to do it with the help of all of you. Palma has a future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. Minister, what would you say? Of all the kinds of catastrophes to which we are accustomed canaries and canaries, and I believe that the whole of the Spanish state, volcanics are not the most frequent, and with this intensity, the least. Those of us who are used to living terrible fires like those we have lived in the Canary Islands usually know how terrible they are, the damage they do, but we also know that reconstruction is relatively simple afterwards. We know where things are, where the houses were, where the land was... Now it turns out that all that is turned into a bad country, and all those lost properties, that way of life of many people are under the lava. That's the difficulty. This is not the same as the above, as other kinds of catastrophes. Therefore, we are going to support this royal decree-law, as it cannot be otherwise, but I am already telling you that I am sure it will not be enough. It seems to me that is also clear from his words. The first steps to be taken are related to the organization. I believe that the fact that there is a joint commission, that there is an interministerial commission, that there are working committees in the field ofcanarian administrations is decisive for a reason, and it is because many times in this type of catastrophes people, especially the most vulnerable, have the problem that they are not able to document, for example, the ownership of their homes or are not able to document the existence of their land. It is therefore absolutely imperative to give specific support to the very many people who today not only have the problem of having lost everything, but that they be helped to document what they have really lost. Here are two challenges now. The first is the stage. It is imperative that the aid should come quickly, because the problem is already: more than fifty days, as we know, in which many people have absolutely nothing. The second is the expandability. The true and real consequences of what is really happening are impossible to determine at this time, as you well know. I therefore believe that this royal decree-law does what it has to do, that it begins to take urgent action. New Canarias has put forward a set of amendments to the State General Budgets, specifically aimed at aid for the island of La Palma. It has helped the Canary Islands and La Palma a lot in particular - because we generally have a problem of not knowing what that land really is - that many people see the dimension of agriculture in La Palma. Those banana seas express well the need to act on the sector. In this respect, we have raised a set of issues, for example, amendments to ensure that the Insurance Compensation Consortium covers agrarian damage related to disasters, because, as you know, that is not included today. This is absolutely necessary to get it started. From the approach of specific air bonuses to exceptions in the IRPF in the state section, proposals are all types and colors. What I'm saying is that the diagnosis we have today is not going to be the same diagnosis as when I conclude this drama that palm trees and palm trees are experiencing. I also have to say that the Canary Islands have captured the solidarity of the people. We have grasped solidarity in this House, we have grasped solidarity in almost all the social manifestations in which we are moving, and now what is lacking is that we do not fail those who are going through it as they are going through it, the compatriots of the island of La Palma.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u5	Mr. Quevedo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u6	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I've lost my piece of paradise. This phrase is from Devo, a 25-year-old girl who lost her little family home in El Paso in the early days of the volcano. Fifty-four days of eruption; more than 2500 buildings under lava; more than 7,000 people evicted, some crowded in family homes, friends, garages or apprehension rooms, 500 in hotels; 2,000 families have lost their homes. The economic fabric of the island is destroyed: the banana trees, the vineyards, the avocados, the cut export flower, the farms, the cheese shops, the honey, the industrial polygons, the fishing, an important part of the tourist plant and the trade. Educational, health, social, sports, water and road infrastructure are under the lava. Four thousand children without classes in almost two months; university students who cannot afford the rent of the shared apartment, the transport bonus or the food of each day; living in shock, with one hundred earthquakes daily, with the noise of the permanent volcano and with the air and ashes in danger, with the assistance of voluntary psychologists, with despair and with uncertainty regarding the present and the future. No one doubts that there were good intentions, no one doubts it, but they have not arrived. Aids and certainties don't come. All these people will not be able to recover the only photo they had of their parents and their lives will not be the same without the garden or susplants. They won't be able to recover their memories, but we have to fight for everything that can be recovered with money and public support. To get ahead of the island and palm trees do not serve the criteria of other catastrophes, do not serve these decrees, because these decrees are insufficient - the next one we will see too - and will require corrections. It is insufficient because it does not include aid for those affected indirectly, e.g. for truck drivers who work for packages. The compensation is insufficient: EUR 30 000 for destroyed housing, only for owners who have it as usual, or EUR 9000 for rebuilding an industry or trade. Loans are only postponed for six months. How is it possible that the loan survives and not the house or property for which it was requested? It does not include aid for psychologicalassistance; it does not provide aid for the island's tourism, hospitality or trade; it does not provide for a single euro for education. Palma needs a comprehensive reconstruction plan for the island to face the future of hope. If we do not help them and do it well, we are condemning the palm trees to leave the island; we will be condemning them, as has happened in other historical times, to emigration. This week I was listening to a young woman from Los Llanos who had lost her newly opened house say: I want to come back because these are my mountains. It is up to this Congress, this government, to show that politics serves something, which serves to help people at the worst time of their lives. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u10	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. Very briefly. The first thing, of course, is to show the solidarity of my group and of Euskadi to La Palma and also to all the volunteers and people who have worked there in a dramatic situation and putting everything on their side. From here, I think there's little to add. The consequences of a catastrophe such as that of the volcano are enormous, the damage is incalculable and thousands of citizens have been harmed. It is therefore the duty of the administrations to take charge of this compensation for damage suffered by many families who have lost it, as has been said here, everything. Leaving no one behind means, therefore, that administrations must or must be close to all and all those who have suffered it. Therefore, and as a result of these kinds of natural disasters, the Government is bringing us here today a decree with a series of exceptional measures to contribute to the restoration of normality in affected areas: measures for housing and business establishments, employment and social security, plans and models... I am not going to say all of them because they have already been said, but we do think it is fair that these measures have been articulated. It is also true, and here I am going to join a little bit with climate change, that this climate change will lead us to have to articulate this type of measures in a way that is most often used to mitigate the effects that can occur, because it is true that the effects of climate change are already bearing them. I therefore believe that we must try to move forward so that we do not only have to act to resolve what has already happened, that is, in the past, when a catastrophe occurs. [[The Lord]] We will support this decree, because they are necessary and urgent measures. Also for this reason, we will not support validation as a bill, because citizens also need legal certainty about the measures, so that they can benefit immediately, without delay, because families are suffering and already have enough with what they have. We have also heard here today that perhaps some measures are insufficient. That is why we encourage the Government to sit back and talk to the people concerned and perhaps we can articulate more measures or expand those that have been brought here today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u11	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u12	Thank you, President. More than fifty days have passed since the eruption of the Old Summit volcano on the island of La Palma began, something that we began to witness with some unbelief, by the mental and social processes themselves it begins to be assumed, but now we have to move to action in the phases that the minister has well detailed in his intervention. At the outset, what are we talking about when we refer to the effects of the Old Summit volcano? With data from November 7, I can tell you that the coladas have already affected a total of 983 hectares, making it the most important eruption in the island's recent history. Of this total area destroyed by the coladas, 283 hectares correspond to crops, among them 158 of banana trees, 59 of vineyards and 24 hectares of avocado trees. As far as buildings are concerned, according to the data we have been able to consult in the cadastre, 1446 buildings have been destroyed by lava, of which 1171 are residential, are dwellings, 147 are agricultural, 66 are industrial, 33 are for hotels or leisure, and 28 are public, educational and even sanitary establishments. More than 63,800 metres of roads and roads are affected, which make what was a short journey now supposes to turn the whole island around and you can imagine the need to transport yourself in these circumstances. The recent evolution of the coladas, moreover, threatens the connectivity of the Naos port and the possibility of access of vehicles of greater tonnage; that is, we could encounter even some problem of supply. Given the effects, let us analyse the measures that this royal decree-law brings and for which we consider it appropriate and will support it. Firstly, those intended for housing and business establishments. Direct aid is provided to natural persons for the purpose of destruction or structural damage in a degree of gravity that has occurred and also to enable local corporations to meet the costs arising from the emergency with a coverage of up to 100 per cent. Yes, it does draw our attention to the small amount for those who have lost absolutely everything. There are things, feelings, buried and lost forever, but it is important in this sense to usumar frustration at these feelings, and to this I will refer to the end of the intervention. Another package of measures is employment, social security and pension schemes. There is an extraordinary training and employment plan for the island worth EUR 63 million and, as the minister said, a moratorium of up to one year without interest in the payment of social security contributions between October and January or the postponement of income with a reduced interest of 0.5%, which is seven times lower than usual. There is also aid for agriculture and fisheries, which, as you can imagine, has been severely affected. Various measures valued at EUR 20.8 million will be granted. There's a package to retrieve supplies. In addition, undertakings and self-employed persons may temporarily suspend supply contracts, with the costs which may be suspended as a result of this measure. In the same way, the disposal of destroyed facility contracts will be permitted. There is also an important package for recovering infrastructure and mobility, as, as I have told you, much of the island's vials have been destroyed, with 63 kilometres of vials buried under the lava. And it is envisaged to grant subsidies to the lobby and the municipalities to recover these connections, to recover the communications as soon as possible. There are also tax measures, which the Minister hasexplained exhaustively. There is protection for consumers; the time limits for exercising the right of withdrawal are suspended, as the Minister has also said in his intervention. This facilitates the harshness in which people are often obliged by contract to certain issues that they will not be able to deal with at present. There is a paradoxical package for good, which is the recovery of biodiversity, natural spaces and research. Here something exceptional happens, it is nature that destroys nature and it is the intellect and collective action of the human being that recovers it. I think this is an issue that can make us think for good. Complementary measures are available. Strengthened systems of legal, notarial, judicial and consultation assistance are created in the Property Registry for all the files that are to be started when we enter the long and desired third phase, of reconstruction, so that people can also recover legal stability as soon as possible. In short, it has been more than fifty days since all the media are waiting for La Palma and the Old Summit. There are those who have wanted to see in this, I have read, from a punishment of nature to something beautiful, and there are those who seek to make sense of the eruption of a volcano. Two are the forces that drive nature. One is evolution, we just lived it, we just suffered it in a pandemic. The intellect, our scientific and intellectual capacity has faced evolution, which is what we have faced with a virus, and, in this case, we face entropy, the entropy, the entropy, the tendency to chaos that nature has and that is what is devastating La Palma. In the face of these trends, in the face of these forces, we can oppose our intellect, science, illustration, our intellectual capacity and, above all, the common effort of all Spaniards, of the State, of this House; of, I hope, a large majority of political parties. And above all, a moral requirement we have to get out of here today. Remember the Lorca earthquake? Remember the drunken Filomena? Do you remember the fire in Sierra Bermeja more recently? For in Lorca they know well what the aid takes; with the drunken Filomena they know very well what it is to forget a topic and to move away from the media focus. A volcano is inevitable, but forgetfulness will be unforgivable. We have an obligation that when the media focus is removed, when attention is set elsewhere, this House and the Government of Spain do not forget the palm trees. In the face of the misfortune of the volcano, the fortune of being in a nation that responds...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u13	Your honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u14	... that unites and puts all the necessary resources in place for those affected to recover their lives as soon as possible. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u15	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u16	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed more than fifty days since the eruption of the volcano of La Palma. The Vulcanologists had already warned us days before of the possibility of the eruption, but logically they did not know or could not know the dimension or magnificence of the natural catastrophe, of brutal consequences for our island of La Palma. We have received expressions of solidarity, affection and help from virtually the entire territory of the Spanish State and we are deeply grateful, as it cannot be otherwise, for those examples. Thank you, really. But we have also checked once again how little our territory is known, beyond the tourist slogan. For example, Guillermo, a companion, the volcano is not called the Old Summit. Old Summit was an ancient volcano, so it's called Old Summit. The volcano still has no name, the inhabitants of La Palma will be able to. There are many people who have asked us why we live in areas near the volcanoes. They will allow me to respond in some way to this ignorance by paraphrasing Pedro García Cabrera and Agustín Millares Sall, who are two of our most luminous poets: We are volcanic territory, all the islands are volcanic territory. The lava runs through our veins, we were born for the sea. We wake up the rumors of the beaches on the sides, we float between waters, proud, tight, resistant. We have forged horizons and hands of hope without vocation or desire to be silenced. We live as we burn and think with our feeling of volcanoes. We are not descendants of a cut tongue. We will not be sweaty and vinegary, nor will we continue to be subjects of a fair of forgetfulness. Ladies and gentlemen, that is just what we are. Today, in fact, we are being brought here by a royal decree that takes urgent measures of support for the recovery of the damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the reconstruction of our Bonita Island, of the island of LaPalma. The purpose of this royal decree is to promote, yes, the social, labor, economic, environmental, educational recovery of the island, minimizing the impact of volcanic activity, above all - above all, and I want to highlight it - for those people who are in a situation of special vulnerability. It collects measures, which the Minister has degenerate and quantified, for support in the fields of personal damage, housing, industrial, commercial and service establishments, employment. Indeed, 63 million for an extraordinary training and employment plan for the island. Measures in consumption aimed at ensuring the full exercise of the rights of the consumers concerned. For example, exempt from the payment of water and light receipts for dwellings that have been swallowed or affected by lava. Measures for suspension of interest or principal obligations for loans and loans. Finally, at this point, certainly, the Bank could already, to which we pardon many millions of public debt in the 2008 crisis, do the same with the affected families in La Palma. It'd be worth it. It also contains this royal decree measures on mobility, supplies, support for infrastructure, the primary sector: our fisheries sector - which will not be able to do until the year 2022 - our agriculture. Recovery measures in the area of biodiversity and natural spaces; measures in the area of notarial and registration, and, as could not otherwise be, measures of social services and care for victims of violence, and other science and research measures. All these measures which, I insist, the Minister has broken down, has quantified one by one the Minister, are necessary, and the speed of the Government of Spain is applauded, but it is true that we are still in the midst of this catastrophe; yet today we do not know how long it will last. We are counting on the Government's commitment to take all the necessary steps for the reconstruction of Bonita Island now and, above all, when the volcano is extinguished. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are a people - the canary - tired of waiting so long for promises that did not arrive, promises that were not fulfilled by successive Spanish governments. Hence the uneasiness that the people affected on the island of La Palma have at the moment, and so they move it one day yes and another also. Because we carry a memory of abandonment on the part of a State which, even with the passage of the centuries, has not ceased to treat us - and all has to be said - with a certain colonial condescension. That's why our countrymen and countrymen in La Palma are asking us to be vigilant so that the commitments made become facts, and that's fair, minister, what we're going to do. You said that a people is well known not for tragedy but for how to cope with that tragedy. For I want today from the rostrum to make an express recognition to the people of the Canary Islands, because since it began to roar the land and without waiting for any political institution it was put to work, networks of solidarity were activated to reach our people; whatever was needed: food, clothes, blankets, food, money, voluntary people to care for the affected, distribute help, remove ash from the roofs. That exhilarating desolidarity, that community feeling capable of crossing the sea and acting immediately is the most precious good we have in the archipelago and has a name, ladies and gentlemen, it is called 'canarity'. And if something has become clear to the islanders and the islanders while we are facing this tragedy, another of the many that we have dealt with throughout history, is that while there is 'canarity' there is hope. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u17	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u18	Mr. President, thank you very much. Minister, how do you like to hide behind the public and say that you are the adalides of the defense of the general interest, of the public. But when the time comes for the truth, when all Spaniards have to prove that we are up to it to help the most disadvantaged, those who have suffered a tragedy for which they are not responsible, you remain very short. Once again, this volcano shows us that the Spaniards are the last for this Government. Once again, it is shown that ideology is against common sense and effectiveness. Many statements, many videos, many photos and an absolutely insufficient decree for the canaries, for the palm trees. These past days I have had the opportunity to visit the island, to listen directly to those affected, to listen to the emergency services, to the technical teams and all of them to their despair unite distrust towards this Government, do not believe it. And they don't believe it because they've already seen how this government knows how to make rumbling statements, but then it's just worried, as I'm going to tell you now, for the rest of my life, about its ideology and sectarianism, not about finding effective solutions for palm trees. A simple declaration of will would suffice. In the General Budgets of the State there is not a single item dedicated to the reconstruction and the aid of the volcano catastrophe in La Palma, there is no more to remain. [[Applauds]] There's nothing more to say. Well, they've agreed on 50 million for illegal immigration, so they did have time to put it in. I remind you that the volcano was before your budget proposal. And I, at the moment, Minister - and let the palm trees allow me and forgive me if they think I'm making a joke about this -, I don't know if I say the volcano, the volcano, the volcano... Is this volcano macho, xenophobic or racist? But how do you dedicate in article 51 an expense to alleviate the victims of gender-based violence caused by the volcano? But have you gone mad? But what are we talking about? [[Applauds]] Or, for example, when you say in article 45: There will be aid for what is affected by the area of influence of the Tabuliente boiler. What have you done, a clipping of the royal decree of when there was a riad in the boiler of Taburiente, which has not been affected by the volcano? Or when, for example, they say: We will reorder property records and notaries to effectively assist owners who have been affected by the volcano. But if that has already been offered free of charge by the College of Registrators and Notaries! But don't you come and sign up so many who don't belong to you! [[Applauds]] It is surprising how you are able to fill folios and folios and, in the background, serve virtually nothing. For example, to the industrial, commercial, to the companies that have lost everything, to the plantations, you say: If you come to collect from the Insurance Compensation Consortium - those who are listening to me and have had to claim from the consortium already know that it is fast and effective in the aid -, you can only get - your decree says -, at most, to 7%, and in any case with a maximum amount of 9224 euros. [[It's irony.]] But what will those affected who have lost their home, their land, which is 10 or 20 meters below the lava, with 9200 euros? What are you going to buy, a caravan, a wooden house in some mall? [[Applauds]] Look, you're talking about that for the total destruction of housing there will be 30 000 euros. But what housing solution are they going to buy with 30 000 euros? Are you going to let them build a cabin on it? It turns out a certain amount of hair for those who, with tears in their eyes, told us that their grandparents and their parents had to emigrate to Venezuela, to Brazil, to Argentina, and that with the money they brought they managed to raise that banana plantation, build their home, that of their children, and that they now have nothing. But nothing is nothing. They have a slab above 30 meters. Are you saying you're going to compensate them for 30,000 euros? That's misery, that's spitting in their faces. What about communications? It has already been mentioned here that what was a twenty or twenty-two minute transfer now takes two and a half hours to travel the island the transporters in an endless caravan, which I have had to carry out and truly insufferable. There is not a single departure to set up new roads in the affected area. Minister, if that area has remained under the lava slab, these people will not be able to recover their homes or their land. Therefore, you should proceed as a matter of utmost urgency to expropriate and compensate them with the appropriate fair value for the homes, industrial establishments and agricultural farms that you have lost. [[Applauds]] As a matter of urgency! That when you want to run to please your separatist partners you sound very fast. I'm done, Minister. For you in the Canary Islands, illegal immigrants are infinitely more important, who stay in three- and four-star hotels, who give direct subsidies and those who measure in their budgets, than the canaries themselves, than the Spaniards themselves. This royal decree is, like all that this Government does, insufficient in the resolution of problems, sectarian in dealing with them politically and, from a national point of view, unauthentic contempt for the Spaniards. That island of La Palma, which is heart-shaped, we not only say that we have it in our hearts, but we would like it to be in our budgets as well. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u19	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, today, more than ever, we send a reminder and a message of encouragement to the inhabitants of the island of La Palma, who have been suffering this devastating volcanic eruption for two months, and especially to those who have lost everything. [[Applauds]] But I also want to mention the great work that our colleagues, the teams of the lobby and of the municipalities concerned are doing, for this demonstrated vocation of public service that must preside over all political activity. And also the security forces, scientists, professionals, the media, everyone, for the great work they carry out in almost two months of uninterrupted activity. Today we are discussing the consideration of a Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures in support of the reparation of damage caused by the volcano. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is well-born to be grateful and, as our President-in-Office has already announced on his first visit to La Palma, we will be with the Government. And we appreciate and appreciate the speed with which the Government has reacted to this emergency; we have already been two months since the eruption. And, of course, thank you for the funds that have been allocated for the reconstruction of the island. But, of course, this speed clashes with the reality of the circumstances. Today there is a unanimous complaint that there is no aid; they have not arrived. Today the obstacles to giving housing solutions to those who lost their homes and the first aid bring from the head to the damaged, to the one who has lost his home, his business, his estate, his properties or lives in rooms of apprehensions or garages, or for the solidarity of friends and family, or pays a rental flat at insurmountable prices for those who, apart from their home, have lost everything and have no income. That is the reality today in La Palma, Minister. At first glance, this royal decree-law provides for a series of measures covering a large part of the case that may suffer a territorial area in emergency situations due to natural disasters: financial aid, measures on employment, cancellation of contracts, temporary suspension of mortgage payments, deferral of payments of tax measures, infrastructure... The truth is that everything sounds very good and I repeat that it is to thank the speed of the Government's response and the adoption of these measures by the Council of Ministers, but I think they have forgotten two fundamental things: one is the agility and the other, the dynamism of the emergency situation. This is not a fixed photo, something that changes day by day and does not follow a standard pattern of aids, which forces us to think whether these measures are really agile and effective and whether they would be needed in an exceptional time of emergency, at this time of emergency. All we have to do is put ourselves in the place of the people concerned. If any of you had lost your home, your business, your living space and, although it seems that the aid is cumulative, the only thing that is true and written is that you will be entitled to a maximum aid of EUR 30,240 - which is true that it is twice the aid provided for in Emergency Decree 307/2005 - but do you really believe that this is proportional for those who have lost everything? If you have lost your home, your job, your land, and not only yours but also that of your parents and brothers, and suddenly your nearest future is pending the implementation of an employment plan - be it sixty-three million, one hundred or one thousand - with an indefinite temporal horizon, does it seem logical to you that there is talk of temporary suspension of supply contracts, when there are no real estate to be supplied, or of temporary suspension of the IBI, when there is no longer the good, or of tax debts of the IRPF, when there is no income because the volcano has taken everything away? Ladies and gentlemen, we are grateful for the speed, but this royal decree-law sets out problems that we could have encountered in an emergency situation such as others we have experienced: temporary, hail and snow. But here there is no hope of returning to your previous life because the volcano has erased it from the map. In La Palma we are in another situation, an exceptional situation where every day we face the uncertainty of not knowing what is going to happen. And we are at the mercy of the volcano, which does not have an orthodox behavior, which every day is new and exceptional, so our response must be exceptional and we think it must be based on four precepts: anticipation, restoration of damage, meeting priority needs and, above all, not overloading the damaged constitutions without capacity to respond, such as debt deferrals on something that is not held. We would like this to be treated as a bill to incorporate improvements and refine solutions that are not being effective, and that were preparing and subscribing the ground for construction. There is a lack of greater involvement of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in a process that should not remain in the individual aid - which, of course, is fundamental - but should devise a whole system for the agile repositioning of housing, infrastructure and comprehensive urbanization, because this is the reconstruction of a territory, in capitals, with the participation of all and the involvement of the four elements of the Administration: local, island, autonomous and state. Right now the situation is promises, because, while the aid of this royal decree-law can be added to the subsidies, people complain that after two months there is no aid. Three hundred homes have been promised, but there are more than 1,000 affected families who have lost them and more than 6,000 displaced persons. We, in the amendments we have tabled to the General Budgets of the State, have introduced some issues that we consider relevant and we would like them to be taken into account, if not in the General Budgets of the State, in the draft law deriving from this royal decree-law. I am referring, for example, to the extraordinary plan for the replacement of housing infrastructure and also to the direct care offices for the affected. What can be improved? Of course I do. We are fully convinced that the situation requires the work and contributions of all, and what we have not been able to do in other matters in this House, let us do it for La Palma, Minister, let us do it for the Canary Islands. This support system has to be alive...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u21	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u22	I'm done, President. ...and constantly feed on everyone's contributions, and we have to be able to live up to when society needs us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u23	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. I would like to begin by conveying on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group a message, first of all, of solidarity, of being as always on the side of citizens when they need it most, especially when they have suffered irreparable losses that go beyond the material and that have to do with their memories and their experiences, in short, with their lifestyle. Secondly, I would like to convey a message of responsibility, because there is no political confrontation here, no use can be made of human drama to get rid of it, because we would send a wrong and dangerous message to citizens and, moreover, it would be terribly irresponsible. [[applause]] The citizens of the island of La Palma deserve a high policy, avoiding media opportunism and demonstrating that we are able to make a useful policy at the service of the citizenry. In this sense, the drama that Bonita Island is experiencing is an example that is possible. It is possible to coordinate and cooperate between the different institutions, regardless of their political colour, without cracking the interest of palm trees and palm trees. That is why we thank the Government of Spain, the Government of the Canary Islands, the Cabildo de La Palma and the municipalities affected by the eruption of the Old Summit for the effort they are making, but also for the closeness and affection they have shown their inhabitants. Thirdly, I would like to convey a message of commitment, a commitment that we share with the Government, bearing in mind that the absolute priority is the reconstruction of the island of La Palma, to alleviate the damage that its inhabitants are suffering and to ensure that aid arrives quickly and quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, the Government has given rapid responses to the new daily and effective emergencies in solving problems, because this Government does not leave anyone behind, nor will it do so with palm trees and palm trees. They are coordinated responses and in collaboration with all public administrations. An example of this is the Interministerial Commission, which coordinates the efforts and proposals of each ministry in relation to the La Palma eruption, and the Joint Commission; proof of this is the EUR 225 million allocated through budgetary amendments and also the lines of aid which can come from the European Union. In addition to their effectiveness, they are adaptive responses, with measures and funding lines adapted to the needs that are emerging every day and at every moment, and estimates, waiting to know how the situation evolves. They are responsible and committed responses from the Government to La Palma, its citizens, its workers and its economy. They are fair responses with all sectors and cross-cutting in all fields - social, health and research tax - which strengthen the social shield in the face of the magnitude of the La Palma disaster with the aim of guaranteeing opportunities, employment, stability and certainty. In the socio-occupational field, I would like to highlight the fundamental role of the employment plan for the island, with more than EUR 60 million, of which 551 workers have already benefited from the specific ERTE model established for the island and a total of 1550 people have completed the procedures to benefit from it; also the moratorium of up to one year without interest in the payment of contributions earned between October and January and the possibility of early recovery of pension plans and funds, as already occurred during the pandemic. But it is also important to highlight aid to the main productive sectors, their main source of wealth, such as agriculture, tourism and fisheries. We have all witnessed how the lava was carried, destroyed and continues to do so, whole plantations of bananas; the impact that the ashes are having on the crops and the enormous effort that farmers are making to save part of the production. For this reason, measures such as direct compensation to farmers for the damage suffered, direct aid to the fishing sector or to shipowners and crews to compensate for the loss of the fleet or financing for damage to water and rural roads are essential to deal with the losses caused by this natural disaster and to generate hope and expectations for the future, in order to recover the economic activity affected as soon as possible. The island faces many challenges until it reaches the final reconstruction, we are aware, therefore it is so important that the affected neighbours recover their homes, the children their schools and the whole island their economic activity, their life. But it is also very important that they can do so on their land, on their island. And in order for that to be possible, it is essential that we all work together in the same direction, that we abandon the noise and confrontation, that we support this package of measures that are the result of the demand of different institutions and sectors and of what they have been able to see and feel through the many visits made to the island by the President of the Government, who has been on six occasions, but also the ministers and ministers and different political leaders. Let us not fail the inhabitants of La Palma, who have been an example of generosity and good-neighbourliness, nor let us fail the whole country, which has shown its respect, affection and solidarity with the island. That's why I'm asking you to stay up to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u25	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 21/2021 OF 26 OCTOBER, PROMOTING SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES TO FRONT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS. [[File number 130/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u26	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 21/2021 of 26 October, extending social protection measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, again. I compare on this occasion to request the validation by all of you of the Royal Decree-Law on the Protection of Persons in Situations of Social and Economic Vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, the government said it would extend the social shield if necessary, and we have complied. The government said it wouldn't leave anyone behind, and we've done it. And that's what we're doing bringing back a royal Social Shield Decree-Law to this House. And on this occasion we extend the validity until 28 February 2022, the date until which we have also extended the ERTE and, therefore, we agree on the two fundamental measures to protect employment and protect people in situations of social and economic vulnerability. This morning I pointed this out in this very rostrum on the occasion of the previous royal decree-law: the pandemic has demonstrated the need for a strong State, an efficient State and a State capable of protecting and supporting citizens at times of difficulty; a State capable of deploying a safety net for those who need it most, for those who need it most; a State with quality public services because the public is the only safety that millions of citizens have when they are ill-governed. The pandemic has demonstrated the importance of having a determined Government to deal with the problems that concern citizens and to deal with an unprecedented health, economic and social catastrophe, the greatest pandemic of the century we have suffered in Spain and the world. This rule has the same thread as the royal decree-law that I have presented to you before. Both exemplify the value of the public, a value that is expressed in two ways: the public serves to protect, to act as the last safety net when everything else fails, to fulfill one of the most basic promises of any political community, and it is that we live together and protect each other. Lopublico also serves to modernize societies, to come out better than we were when we entered the crises. That is the philosophy that inspires the recovery plan that we are putting in place and that funds the European Union. These funds will enable Spain to face its second major modernisation, equivalent to that which it assumed in the 1990s with the cohesion funds, a modernisation which is full of opportunities for all and which must reach all people and all territories because we have all suffered equally from the pandemic, a modernisation which is guided precisely by the value of the public; first, to protect; then, to rebuild and, finally, to modernise. Until very recently, when there was a crisis, the Spanish saw the councils of ministers with concern, with the fear of a new cut every Friday. In 2020, during the worst months of the pandemic, the Spanish found in the councils of ministers a relief and now, which we face recovery, they see in the councils of ministers a hope. That is the value of politics and that shows that it is not the same that governs, especially in times of adversity. The governments do not choose the crises that touch us, but we do choose how to deal with them. Ten years ago, another Government faced another crisis, the financial crisis, and the contrast between the two ways of governing is very clear. The exit from that crisis was unfair and incomplete, the exit from this crisis is going to be fast and complete and what is also important: it has a vocation to reach everyone and everyone, to leave no one behind, that all territories have opportunities to improve and to modernise their productive capacity, their economic capacity. As I said before, governments can choose and we have chosen. We have agreed during this crisis to approve minimum living income, raise the inter-professional minimum wage and update our senior pensions fairly. We have also chosen to promote ERTEs that have saved 3.5 million jobs and we have also repealed this unfair dismissal for repeated medical discharge during the pandemic crisis. We have chosen in this crisis to ban evictions from vulnerable families and have approved aid for the emancipation of young people and for them to have access to housing. We have also adopted during the crisis the first State law protecting the right to housing. Similarly, in the context of this crisis, we have decided to extend the National Health System and also assisted reproduction to all individuals and families. We have also chosen, during the crisis, to devote the largest part of history to science and research, EUR 13 billion. In short, in the previous financial crisis austerity was chosen and we, in this crisis, are choosing solidarity. The state of well-being was cut off from that crisis and this crisis was reinforced by the state of well-being. [[Applauds]] Ours is a way of governing that seeks to benefit all, all without exception, and that governs alongside people. Economic growth is neither, nor can under any circumstances be synonymous with precariousness or poverty. This Government has not evaded responsibility for the great challenge of the pandemic; in adverse circumstances we have protected our compatriots and are helping them to recover their lives. We've turned our faces and we're going to keep doing it. That is why last May we adopted a royal decree-law to extend the temporary effectiveness of some measures that were linked to the state of alarm. At that time we decided to take measures to protect the most vulnerable people from the economic and social point of view when the state of alarm ended, we extended the social shield and carried it until 31 October. The arrival of autumn has brought good news, the macroeconomic prospects are good, we are already in recovery, it will be a solid recovery, it will be a powerful recovery. All national and international supervisory bodies say so, including the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. However, it is true that additional time is needed for these good macroeconomic prospects to reach all families, all SMEs, all self-employed. That is why we have decided to extend the social shield until 28 February, thus accompanying it with the other measure protecting employment, which is the ERTE, the other major instrument for social protection of this crisis approved by the Government. As you know, the measures included in this royal decree-law that I submit to you have three major blocs: the first, measures to combat energy poverty; the second, measures on housing; and the third, measures to combat gender-based violence. Firstly, measures to combat energy poverty guarantee the supply of water, gas and electricity to all vulnerable consumers at risk of exclusion, to all, i.e. families with incomes below EUR 11 900 or, where they have children, for example two, below EUR 19 800 per year. We facilitate access to the electric social bond for vulnerable groups, including unemployed people, enERTE people and people who do not reach a certain level of income. Thanks to these measures, ladies and gentlemen - it is important to know that what we do benefits people - more than 1,208 000 people have benefited and their bills have been reduced on 31 October, more than 1,200 000 people have benefited. In addition, we have assured you that you will continue to have light, water and gas in any case and also in the event that you cannot afford it. The second group of measures is aimed at protecting the right to housing. First, we have suspended evictions and throws at vulnerable people without housing alternatives for them or their families. Second, an extraordinary extension may be applied to leases for a period of six months at the request of the lessee. And thirdly, it is also possible to apply for a moratorium or partial forgiveness of the debt when the lessor is a company, a public housing entity or a large holder. The last of the blocks of measures contained in the Royal Decree-Law, which I submit to its validation, retains the essential consideration of protection and assistance services for victims of gender-based violence, ensuring the provision of reception, information and counselling services 24 hours a day and support for staff providing comprehensive social assistance services to all victims. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government is fulfilling, we are fulfilling. There is no doubt about the success of mass vaccination, which has changed our mood, the mood of the country, and which is laying the foundations for strong and solid economic recovery in Spain. There is no doubt that the measures we are taking are working. We are addressing the economic and social consequences of this crisis effectively and in solidarity, ensuring that fair recovery reaches all people and all corners of our country. We are determined that Spain recovers quickly and does so in a fair manner, that is, that it reaches the working classes, the middle classes, the SMEs, the self-employed, the enterprises, all the productive sectors and also all the corners of our country. That is the just recovery we want from the Government for Spain. [[Applauds]] Our credibility, ladies and gentlemen, is the data. In terms of employment, we already have better data than before the pandemic: we have almost twenty million occupied, the highest figure in history, and this October we have reduced the number of unemployed, something that had not happened in any month of October for forty-six years, since 1975. I would also like to inform you that more than 95% of the workers who benefited from the ERTE and were therefore able to maintain their jobs are already working normally. GDP has grown by 2% in the last quarter and we have already launched the first loss of public-private collaboration to reactivate the economy at speed and with the strength we remain from the government. Spain has regained pace and Spain has regained hope. This is a government that provides solutions and looks forward to the future of Spain with optimism. Spain is much stronger than its problems and has a brighter future than its recent past. [[The lady]] As I said at the beginning, we are in the presence of the second major modernization of the Spanish economy and on this occasion we will take advantage of the European funds to reaffirm our transformative action, our progressive action from the Government. We're going to strengthen the public by defending the general interest, which is everyone's, that security network that never fails when they're wrong. [[Applauds]] And we are going to make strong and robust economic growth compatible with our country's social and territorial cohesion. We want Spain to grow economically, but we want it to grow with social cohesion and territorial cohesion, more economic growth, more rights and more freedoms. That's the Spain we want from the government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a country is not defined by the crises it is forced to face, but by the way it deals with them. We're getting out of the pandemic as a community. In this year and a half we have all done our best, above all the public workers and employees, who have managed to make a contribution and to have a situation of certain normality and to try to get out of the pandemic in the worst moments of the Spanish pandemic. We have to feel pride for our public employees, we have to feel pride for our country, pride for our strength, pride for being the country that is going to grow the most in the coming years, as all international agencies indicate. That for us is pride for having been a more supportive country and is, above all, pride of country and being Spanish. At the moment, being Spanish means nothing less than being able to be proud of what we have done from the government to get out of the most serious pandemic of the last century. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that the Government has been up to it and will continue to be up to it. I also tell you that we work alongside citizens, because we still have to do a lot to get out of the economic and social consequences of this pandemic. We listen to the demands of the citizenry, try to solve their problems and do everything possible every day to improve their living conditions. That is the sole objective of this Government: to strengthen the welfare state, improve public services and improve the living conditions of our compatriots. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to validate this royal decree-law to continue on the path of powerful economic growth, not forgetting anyone, fighting for social cohesion and rights and freedoms to reach all people and the last corner of our country. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to validate this royal decree-law of the social shield. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I already mentioned in my previous speech how palm trees felt and that there was very good will, but that was not enough; that, when the volcano broke out, on the island of La Palma had not yet recovered from the crisis of COVID-19, neither tourism nor trade nor SMEs nor self-employed: unemployment on the island of 23 % and 1071 people on ERTE. After the volcano, 551 ERTE have been approved and 1550 are in progress. The aid and cessation of activity designed for self-employed people and SMEs do not serve this catastrophe - although they have some corrections in this decree - because it has nothing to do with the COVID-19 stoppage or with floods or fires. And please know, ladies and gentlemen, that self-employed and small businesses are fundamental to the island: 5900 self-employed and 2300 small businesses account for more than 90% of the business fabric of La Palma. If the aid is not sufficient and if it does not arrive quickly, the damage to the economy will be even greater. Aid for the reconstruction of industrial or commercial buildings is only EUR 9000 and will be granted on condition of the reconstruction of the building by the small entrepreneur. What's a company going to do with 9000 euros? In addition, there are no companies with more than 50 workers. Apparently, they don't need help. In-depth lost aid and soft loans should be envisaged for the recovery of all the undertakings concerned directly or indirectly and irrespective of their size. With regard to the primary sector, there must be aid for farmers, farmers and fishermen directly or indirectly affected, and they must now arrive. Do you know that if it doesn't water in a month and a half, the plant will be lost and you would miss out or four years to have fruit again? Do you know that honey people are trying to save the 2023 harvest? Do you know that one hundred families live from fishing and another one hundred from the export of cut flowers? Do you know that 40% of La Palma's employment and economy depends on bananas, avocado, vines and cheese? Part of the tourist accommodation plant has been lost and there is a need for an aid plan for the whole tourism and commercial sector of the island and not just for the area affected by the volcano. Loans are still alive and are only postponed until businesses and businesses have disappeared. If we don't help them, if we don't do it now and we don't do it right, many palm trees and palm trees will burn. We cannot condemn them to emigrate as their parents and grandparents did to Cuba and Venezuela. We all believe, and I really say this, that the President and his entire Government have been and have done everything they thought they could do, like the Government of the Canary Islands, as lobbying and town halls. No one had faced a catastrophe like this and miracles cannot be asked, but all that can be done must be done and people must be told the truth: this is going to take months and years. Palm trees need certainties and many of them could be given in the next few weeks if there is political will. People have to decide what to do with their lives. Some will not have the strength to start again and others will leave the island, but those who are willing to start from scratch must have all the help this country and the European Union can give them. We are concerned that there are only four weeks left to process the request for assistance from the European Solidarity Fund for natural disasters and that this has not been done. It's been 12 weeks since the eruption started. The Director of the Representation of the European Commission in Spain assured the Canary Islands last week. That money would serve for the first reconstruction of infrastructure. It is not activated by the Commission, but by the Member State which claims it, and it is already believed that the damage amounts to more than 0.4 % of the GDP of the autonomous community of the Canary Islands, which is the requirement to be an outermost region. Minister, you could get 400 million. There are other lines that can be requested throughout 2022 or when the eruption is over. It is also very important that items for La Palma are included in the 2022 budgets, in order to give certainty to the palm trees, and that they be transferred immediately; in turn, that there be multiannual items for the next three or four years. I do not want to end without saying that we want unity of political action and that making improvements, corrections and emergencies is not critical, they are contributions. The palm people are exhausted and desperate and therefore need certainties. I would like to thank the presence in La Palma of the President and his ministers and the tireless work of the EMU, the scientists, the Navy, the local police officers of La Palma and those who came from all the islands, for the civil protection of the island and all the Canary Islands, the Civil Guard and the National Police, the firefighters there and the displaced, the AEA and the rest of the emergency volunteers, the Red Cross and Caritas and all the volunteers who arrived from all parts of Spain. Thanks to all of them there were no personal misfortunes. I would also like to thank the schools of psychologists who have unselfishly attended to those affected; the notaries of Catalonia and Valencia, who are already on the island and who will be taken over by notaries from all over Spain to attend to an exceptional situation free of charge; the media, who with professionalism, empathy, rigour and affection have told the whole of Spain and the world what is happening in La Palma and how the palm people rise with dignity, and the thousands of people who have donated aid to those affected from all over Spain. Thank you very much. Our land is of simple and hardworking people, of people who built every farm, every house and every business with hard work for many years on the island or in the countries where they emigrated. The biggest pride for palm trees is that sushis study a FP or a career and the biggest pain is that it is interrupted. We will not be able to return their home, their garden, their plants, their animals, their photos or their memories, but if we do not help them beyond our possibilities to build their lives we would not have God's forgiveness. Miracles are impossible, but not for not trying. The casuistics are huge and so let's be flexible and make the necessary corrections or decrees week by week. There's nothing left to do because we haven't tried. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mrs Oramas González-Moro]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand. We are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree because voting against it would mean leaving the basic supplies - electricity, water and gas - without any protection, or favouring the dismantling of even more people. But we also want to point out that this initiative, like many others in the Government, will be short-lived in its temporality. And it is not necessary to be Nostradamus or to have powers of vision to know that on 28 February many of the difficulties we are trying to avoid through the social shield will continue to exist, because they have existed for decades in the Spanish state. That is why we sincerely believe that triumphalism remains. We can evaluate and consider the actions that the Government can do in a certain sense - in this case with the social shield - without falling into the car bomb or triumphalism, because, unfortunately, the reality is quite harsher than the one we are faced with. The minister told us that we have all suffered the pandemic equally, but that is not the case. We have all suffered the pandemic, but not all of us have suffered the same, and just look at the results accounts. [[applause]] The billionaires of the Spanish state have earned more money during the pandemic and yet we see that many people have had a bad time during the pandemic or that many people, the result of their transit through the pandemic, are in a worse life situation than before the pandemic. It is necessary for the State - in that I agree with you - to establish through public power a basic mesh of protection for these people. Therefore, it is not true that we have all suffered the pandemic equally. It is true that the measures put forward by this Government to emerge from this crisis have been different from those put forward by the previous Government in the previous crisis, the financial crisis. But it is no less true that the billionaires, both in the previous crisis and in this one, have seen their position strengthened. Perhaps this tells us what this government could do from a progressive perspective, and it is to address an ambitious and powerful tax reform to raise more money for all those people who have made so much money during the pandemic and that these people, therefore, show the political community, as you pointed out, a greater financial commitment to sustain the public coffers and thus be able to increase levels of social protection. We are now being asked to extend the measures until 28 February. As I said, we will support it, but what will happen on March 1st? That we'll find ourselves in the same situation. This Congress has already brought forward and by majority a non-law proposal at the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, which was then negotiated with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and with Unidad Podemos and which was quite clear. The proposal stated that the so-called social shield for the protection of basic supplies, evictions and gender-based violence was structural in nature, i.e. that it was permanent. Although the best thing that could happen to us is that the social shield did not have to exist because our social and democratic state of law, as the great charter of this state says, really guaranteed basic levels of protection and dignity in the lives of all people. That's the fundamental thing and that's structural, it's not short-term, it doesn't have to do with the current situation, because it's changed little. You said credibility is the data. I believe that the reality is the data, and the reality of the Spanish State shown through the data that I have extracted from its own report, the one that has brought to Congress for the validation of this royal decree, presents us with a much more complicated photograph than one can sense only by hearing its intervention. With this social shield it seems that by 28 February everything will be resolved, that there will be no need for such aid nor will there be people in this situation of vulnerability. So let's go to the data: 9 829 000 people - I repeat: 9 829 000 - in the Spanish State live at risk of poverty, that is, one in five; surely it is quite easy to find yourself on the street, to nothing that you pass through, with one of those people. But this reality, 21 % at risk of poverty, has never changed since 1995, with a crisis with economic prosperity, with years of financial boom or with the years of the brick crisis. There has always been a very high rate of exclusion or risk of poverty in the Spanish State. There are more than two million children - said President Sánchez yesterday - who suffer from child poverty in the Spanish State. The average wage for young people is EUR 850, for those who are lucky enough to have jobs, because for a large part of young people, something like 40% in the Spanish State, what is currently facing them is youth unemployment. That photograph is not going to change on March 1, it is well installed in the Spanish state for decades; I have gone back to the historical series since 1995-2021, but I could have done it before. This affects governments of all colours. But there's more. In this year 2021 - his own report says so too - the demands for evictions or uprisings are multiplying by three with respect to 2020. In 2021, and with a social shield, there are three to five times as many eviction demands as in 2020. Here we talk about reality and we talk about data, but behind the data there are people and it is difficult not to show anger and impotence at the images, for example, of José Antonio, Samanda and her four children who were evicted or evicted last week in Zaragoza. It is said that evictions have been avoided, but reality teaches us things as hard as the photograph of that family and its four children who have been evicted and have no alternative housing. The social housing park - it is said in its own report - occupies only 1.6% of households. 37.4% of tenants or renters have to pay more than 40% of rent. Therefore, what is needed are structural measures. If there are no structural measures, it will seem that this economic model, in order to continue to function or carburete, needs a legion of the poor or a legion of the excluded, and we disagree. Yesterday the president asked us what our model was. For our model - we are not afraid of the socialist tax or anything like that - is one that does not need social shields because the dignity of people is not taken away by financial interests and where the public authorities intervene directly in the economy to guarantee the dignity in the lives of all people. We will continue to work to ensure that these exceptional measures, which are short-term, become structural, permanent, because that is the only way we can talk about a social and democratic state of law and a society or a political community that leaves no one behind. In the meantime, what we see is an economic model that, in order to continue to carbide, needs to exclude more and more people and a state that does not have the necessary tools and nothing at all - perhaps this is not the case - to deal with all these defiances. Because it is not about rebuilding or recovering the path of an economic model that makes exclusion its leitmotiv, it is about transforming, it is about irhacia another reality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the truth is that I thought I heard more about reading your book than about the validation of the royal decree-law, which has only developed at some point. This royal decree-law on the development of protective measures against situations of social and economic vulnerability is not new, it is reproduction of an endless chain of previous ones, in particular of the Royal Decree-law 16/2021, which extended the effects of these and other measures until 31 October, which in turn extended 8/2021, which in turn also extended measures of 11/2021 and 16/2021. And all these measures have been overcome by the effects of COVID which, unfortunately, still remain today. Well, with this royal decree-law what is intended is to extend until 28 February 2022 the effects of all those measures laid down in order to ensure, as you have explained very well, that vulnerable consumers have access to the supply of water, electricity and natural gas, which have access to the social bond and housing, that the essential nature of protection and assistance services for victims of gender-based violence is maintained and that care is given to those affected by the volcanic eruption in La Palma, because an extraordinary event so requires, We believe that little can be added to an already repeated debate, that of the need for these measures, which were born, in principle, on a cyclical basis. We only say to him that, apart from the poor legislative technique and our position with regard to some of the measures laid down in this text and the many doubts about the urgency and extraordinary nature of some of the measures in this legislative decree, our group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, allegal that on those occasions. But make it clear that, as we have repeated on several occasions, our positive vote has as its motivation to address the social crisis caused by the pandemic in the most disadvantaged sectors, despite the fact that we are witnessing a new episode of lack of respect for the competence of the autonomous communities and, in particular, that of the Basque Country, which is surrounded on more than one occasion. We do not need to explain once again the social motivation that drives us to this favourable vote, but it may be time to turn into a structural one, as has just been pointed out by those who have preceded me in the use of the word, which is characteristic and permanent and to give cover to short-term measures, which are often opportunistic and demagogic. Because the social shield is a necessary measure, but not of a short-term or temporary nature, like today, but permanent decaracter. As you said, Minister, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to the increase in the prices that all families have to bear, that of light, that of petrol and that of the shopping basket. These are the challenges facing Spanish families on a daily basis. I therefore found it rather hypocritical to talk about social protection measures and, at the same time, to listen deaf to this unsustainable situation that is putting water around the neck of many families in their day-to-day lives. Not addressing it in these first sentences of my speech seemed hypocritical to me. In relation to the actual decree we are dealing with, the liberals find a number of measures with which we agree. We fully agree that many of the social measures included in this text must be extended, because all Spanish families have suffered a great blow in their economy and the most vulnerable have been affected to a greater extent by the situation of the COVID crisis. That is why we believe that access to services such as electricity, water and gas must continue to be guaranteed. But Citizens go beyond that. When the pandemic came, a series of measures were launched to prevent people in the worst economic situation from being cut off from light, water or gas, but at present the rise in energy prices makes it essential that we improve the social bonus itself, increase the projected discount on the electricity bill to 30% for vulnerable consumers and that the discount is up to 50% for severe vulnerable consumers. In addition, we want the income limits to be extended and the requirements for access to the social electricity bond to be reviewed. In short, what we want is to ensure that those families who are having a bad time access these services, because sometimes the excessive bureaucracy and the requirements themselves prevent many families from accessing these necessary services. I would like to recall, as I have already done in other speeches, that the Government itself initially included Internet access in the social shield, but from the second extension of the state of alarm that Internet access disappeared. That is why we are presenting an initiative in the Committee on Social Rights with the basic telecommunications bonus, which was unanimously supported by all the parliamentary groups. For what? So you don't really leave anyone behind. We are all clear that access to the Internet - the pandemic has made it clear - is a guarantee of equal opportunities. It is necessary for people to have access to the Internet to have employment opportunities, to have social relations, to have continuous training, to manage administrative procedures or to educate children. We therefore believe that the Internet bridge is essential and should be favoured. On the other hand, this royal decree includes the essential nature of services against macho violence. Our parliamentary group has always been there, giving size to the protection of women victims of gender-based violence. We had made it clear - we have said it on numerous occasions - that during the restrictions and when the measures of confinement themselves disappeared there was a risk that the violence of machoism would increase, but after the confinement we find ourselves at another time, in that of fully implementing the State Pact against Gender Violence. That is where the Ministry of Equality itself, where the Government, has to invest the largest number of its resources. We have already done so, because we put forward a bill - the Socialist Group in the Senate did not support it - where we intended to adjust and implement measures such as the extension of the concept of gender-based violence as set out in the Istanbul Convention, the extension of victim status to the children and daughters of women victims of violence, the modification of dispensations to declare, the consideration of recidivism when a person has committed various crimes against the same victim, and a long time and so on. All of this is ongoing non-compliance with the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence. So if you want to work against gender-based violence, we'll give you a hand. Let's execute the pact, which I think is vital right now. Let's talk about housing. I have to tell you that we cannot support this royal decree because it contains a series of measures in the field of housing that are unacceptable. We are aware that many families have problems with access to housing. Of course we're conscious. I have said on several occasions that neither with the Socialist Party nor with the People's Party has there been a housing policy in our country in decades. But the solution that the Government is giving us again for housing problems is to allow the illegal occupation of housing. What kind of head is this supposed to be? The Government, instead of moving forward with a state housing law, a good state housing plan or guaranteeing the right to housing, private property and legal security, gives itself to Podemos' populism and leaves it to the owners to solve a structural problem. Is this the solution of the most progressive government in housing history? As some comrade has said, what will happen when that royal decree falls on February 28th? They will have to continue to patch up structural issues. I believe that the Government does not escape from addressing structural issues such as access to housing, sexist violence or access to certain services, even if it is not able to adequately address poverty, because the minimum living income, on which we believe and which we have supported, does not currently reach even half of the target families. Therefore, I encourage you here to work and to get to work, because I believe it is time to implement all the measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence, to promote the integration of vulnerable groups into the labour market, because if you enter the world of work you can pay for your supplies, and to work in the state housing law, to increase social housing and to address infra-living and chabolism. What I want to tell you is that citizens can't reach out to them right now, because their proposal is very unfair with a large part of the Spanish families in relation to housing. But to work, legislate, and execute with justice, they'll always have us under surveillance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, we are going to support this royal decree-law, essentially for two reasons. First, because we already support the previous royal decree-laws that set forth what you call the social shield and, second, because sub-ministry set forth beforehand, unlike other ministries, the Government's intention to bring forward this royal decree-law and facilitated its content. It is therefore a good reason to support him as well. Having said that, I would like to make two reflections, one of a more general or global nature, including the debate that we had yesterday in this House, and another more specific and which refers to the content of the actual decree-law and some aspects that you highlight in the explanatory statement. The general one is that it surprises yesterday's speech by the President of the Government regarding the need to continue implementing these real decree-laws as well as short-term and urgent measures. The President of the Government said yesterday that we have more busy than we had before the crisis, that we have recovered more than 95% of the people who have been in ERTE, that there is robust growth or that we are the country that grows the most from all of Europe. This contrasts with the need for such measures. It is true that some - someone has said - would not have to have a short-term character, but a structural character, as I will comment on later. The second question or reflection I wanted to put on the table, Minister, is in relation to the measures you are taking in the field of housing. You, in the Royal Decree-Law, state that the procedure for suspending certain surveys of proceedings, essentially those derived from the LAU, and in fact justify that in the area of housing rental these measures - which are measures, I remind you, absolutely short-term and temporary - are essentially for two reasons, and put them in the explanatory statement. First, because there's a financial overexposure on the part of people who live on rent. You quantify that more than 37% of people living on rent have to spend more than 40% of their salary and income on rent. And this is so, but it is not a short-term situation, it is not due to the pandemic, so this will have to require a structural solution. And the second reason goes exactly in the same direction, there is a public park of housing for absolutely undersized social rent; you quantify that it does not reach approximately 1.6% of the total households. In this we absolutely agree, we have denounced it and we understand that responsibility of the different administrations at different times, but it is also obvious that this is not the result of a cyclical situation or the situation of the pandemic. Why am I saying this? Because the measures that are being taken - and I repeat that we have voted in favour - are measures that could be understood in an emergency situation, in a limit situation. You have talked a lot about the power and the need for a strong state to act, but it must be a strong state to act but not to outsource solutions, and some of the approaches you make in the field of housing absolutely outsource the solution, and charge the owners of the homes with an additional responsibility, but not all the owners of the homes are big owners or big forbearers, but there are also many saving families, who do not have great wealth capacity, but who have made the effort to have a housing nest, who have concentrated their savings there in order to obtain a certain profitability. And what happens in these situations? That the compensation systems that are established, first, are absolutely inadequate compensation systems, that are dilated over time and that they have not just fulfilled their function. They should therefore take measures and the measures to be taken should not be of a temporary nature. Someone was asking him what they're going to do on February 28th. And, if they re-emphasize these measures of a cyclical nature, it will be difficult for some groups to continue to maintain our support in a perpetual way, because this exceptional situation will no longer be happening. In any case, Minister, I encourage you to do a powerful job in the field of housing. The budgets are, from my point of view, well directed in the field of housing policy, there has to be a major effort in public investment, but this is not necessary and some aspects of the Housing Law that we have seen through the press already tell you that we do not share them either. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, today we are again discussing social protection measures in this House to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability, already popularly known as measures for the social shield. At the outset, we advance our vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree, because no demand for change or improvement justifies the addition of suffering to the lives of the people who pass it the worst. We are faced with extraordinary legislation on urgent and indefatigable matters which we cannot afford not to approve, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not confuse themselves that it is necessary to legislate in this area does not mean that its way of doing so is the most correct one. Firstly, we are dealing with the umpteenth extension of short-term protection measures. We have been saying and repeating for a year and a half that social protection measures must be at least in the medium term, because the first of the objectives of these measures is to give security, stability and tranquillity to those who are hit by the weather of the economic system or, in other words, if part of the objectives of the social shield is that people do not stay on the street, it seems smart and appropriate that they do not have to debate every two months. It is also clear that having the most vulnerable people awaiting validation or not another extension, to know if they are going to take them out of their house the following month, cannot benefit absolutely anyone, that is, those people, these families who are currently in this vulnerable situation cannot continue to live with an added stress and anxiety because they know that in the calendar there is a date, which is or is going to be, if approved, on 28 February. And then what? More extensions? Couldn't we be a little more ambitious? This would allow us to be much more useful to citizens. Secondly, I would like to say to you that, as our group in this House has repeatedly reiterated every time we have talked about extending the social shield, we believe that these measures are short and insufficient. More public investment is needed and, above all, legislation requires more courage against the great powers of the system. And, thirdly, it is necessary to address the core of the issue. Beyond the short-term measures, which are necessary, we must start talking about structural measures, as the previous colleagues have already mentioned; these structural measures are the ones that will or will not solve the fundamental problem, because the macho violence or the difficulties in the exercise of the right to access to decent and adequate housing are that, fundamental problems. Or does anyone believe that extending these measures until 28 February 2022 will end poverty or improve the lives of vulnerable people and/or groups? Many of these people were already on the verge of poverty and the pandemics have just sunk, and others, who did not have this problem, have been affected by ERTE that trigger difficulties in paying rent or mortgage, in paying for basic needs such as electricity, water and gas supplies or in purchasing essential food. For example, let's talk about housing. The new law that has already announced PSOE and Podemos should address issues that have a direct impact on people's lives, and that can only be legislated by the state. First,procedural aspects: to ensure the effective cessation of evictions without alternative social rental housing, for example; secondly, tax aspects: to encourage small owners to opt for social rental and to offer guarantees and guarantees to start, and, thirdly, mortgage aspects: to be able to avoid speculation and abuse by banks. But instead, we are faced with a decree that again goes late, evil and re-centralizes. Perhaps, only if the Government of the State did what was expected of it, would we spare ourselves the short-term and timely measures that did not fulfil its substantive mission. We believe that ambitious measures can and should be taken, good proof of this is the agreement between the Government of the Generalitat, with Constellera Esther Capella at the front, and the Llogaters Union - tenant union - to develop a bill that regulated the prices of rent and braked the speculative bubble. And as far as measures for the protection against sexist violence are concerned, there is no debate. Services should be considered essential always, always and always. Much remains to be done. Again, I repeat, this decree is short, but as little as it is, it will be better than nothing. We are talking about essential aspects for people's lives, but they are not confused, that measures are better than nothing means that they are sufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Pujol. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a real decree extending the measures of the social shield, including those guaranteeing supplies of water, light and gas to vulnerable consumers, the suspension of evictions to families in vulnerable situations, and the extension of the consideration of essentials to protection and assistance services for victims of gender-based violence. The parties on the left of this House must be told that we must take advantage of the situation precisely to transform the structure, step by step, by coup. Alongside these measures, new measures are also laid down for the self-employed affected who could not have accepted the measures regulated in the Royal Decree adopted on 28 September on extraordinary social security measures for self-employed workers affected by the volcanic eruption in the Old Summit area of La Palma. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real decree that all parties calling themselves patriots and constitutionalists should support, and that is that the Constitution, in its first article, defines our country as a social and democratic state of law. For Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos, the mission of the social state is linked to the promotion of the well-being and safety of all citizens, and to the obligation to meet the basic needs, in particular those of the social sectors in situations of vulnerability and exclusion. From the vision that we defend United Podemos-En Comú Podemos, the social state is responsible for the redistribution of wealth and the provider of services that allow to achieve a life worthy for all citizens. But how far are the right-wings of this progressive vision that we in the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos hold about the meaning of patriotism, democracy and constitutionalism. That is why today the right of this House - PP, Citizens and VOX - will not support extending the social shield. Today the right-wings will once again assert their patriotism of flag and bracelet; they will assert their constitutionalism of cardboard. Today, once again, the right-wings will show their false courage; always strong with the weak and protective and empathetic with the powerful. Always next to the big owners and the income of the capital versus the income of the labor. If we have learned from the consequences of the pandemic, it is that social justice is the only possible alternative to the deep inequalities that we still carry, and that this progressive Government is striving to correct inequalities inherited from the 2008 crisis, to which the minister has referred, and from the management by the People's Party for ten years of cuts in the welfare state. The measures proposed by the social shield are both necessary and essential. That's why today in the United We Can-In Common We will vote in favour of this royal decree. But I do not want to forget in this rostrum that perhaps it is the most important country challenge, or the most urgent one, and I am referring to putting an end to the precarious situation in which thousands of families who suffer from energy poverty and housing insecurity live. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow more than four thousand people, a thousand of them minors, to spend another winter without heating in Cañada Real, just 12 kilometres from this Chamber. [[Applauds]] We cannot allow recurring blackouts to continue in neighborhoods such as Can Pla, in Tarragona; San José Obrero, in Reus; La Mina, in Sant Adrià; Font de la Pólvora, in Girona; Polígono Sur, in Seville or the polygon of the northern part of Granada. [[Applauds]] The social shield must protect what is known in the field of civil society as the fourth world: men, women, boys and girls who, generation after generation, are excluded from the fundamental rights enjoyed by the rest of their citizenship. According to the European Network against Poverty, in Spain alone 11.8 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion; all of these people are targeted at social shield measures in a short-term situation, but we will work to turn them into structural measures, as all the spokespersons and'speakers' of the left-wing groups in the House have said. [[Rumors]] As the UN rapporteur on Extreme Poverty said after his visit to Spain, poverty, ladies and gentlemen, is not a natural phenomenon as the eruption of the volcano of La Palma can be, but is the result of a political decision. In our country, poverty is largely the direct consequence of the inequalities caused by those who played the national wealth in the financial casino of the speculative economy that caused the 2008 crisis, a financial casino that degenerated the largest debt bubble in our history and whose crisis we are still recovering from. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it will be those casino players of the big capital who today, in this House, with their vote against the social shield, will protect the right. And so are the patriots of bracelet and flag, so are the constitutionalists of cardboard, always strong with the weak and protective and mimoso with the powerful. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, last time you told me that you were quoting me in a park, and I told you that we would end up seeing in person here, in the seat of national sovereignty, which is much better; however, now I see you a little I don't know sist or boring, to see if I entertain you a little bit. Before we begin, I propose a couple of cultural proposals. Last night, at the end of the plenary session, this parliamentary group VOX, our 52 deputies, senators, assistants and legal team went to see a film that I highly recommend, is called Spain, the first globalization. Don't be scared, Alfonso Guerra comes out, it's okay, you can watch the movie. [[Applauds]] The film also features Marcelo Gullo, a writer who also paraphrases Orwell when he says that whoever controls the present controls the past and who controls the past will control the future. I dedicate this to the progress of all the parties in this House, who do not understand our desire to dismantle all the social engineering that you have been implementing in Spain at least in 2004, and as they do not understand it, some, when they rule, even with absolute majorities, with all the means in favor, without having any internal problems, without any problem, with all the capacity, are unable, however, to dismantle all that you do: nothing. The other film is more shocking, it's called Planted. Do you know Nelson Mandela? Yeah, right? Do you know Angel de Fana? Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know Feliciano Miguel Sales Figueroa, Ernesto Díaz, Luis Zúñiga, Marisa Lugo Fernández, Valentín Figueroa? Do these names ring a bell? Probably not, but they and many others are the planted ones, a group of irreducible Cuban political prisoners, genuine heroes fighting for freedom, for which they have sacrificed their lives. Many died and many have spent more time in prison than Nelson Mandela himself, but his cause, which is the cause of freedom, therefore the cause of anti-communism, therefore the cause of the anti-left, is not so popular. [[Applauds]] You, who grew up conposters of Che Guevara and unaware of the crimes of Castroism, the crimes of the left, do not want to meet these heroes, in fact have not been known to them for many years, but now there is a great opportunity, and I recommend to everyone to see this film, Planted, that tells their story. I also recommend it to those of the People's Party who do not understand that having a friendship agreement with the Chinese Communist Party is truly bloody in our days. [[Applauds]] Both films are a good disassembly exercise of the left story, and that's more or less all we do here. We are dedicated to disassembling your account, Minister, while you speak on the telephone, to denouncing your lies and to using this instrument to denounce that you are using the legislative function to weave false accounts, which is a veritable aberration. You can call it a social shield and you can assert, like the demotive display of this royal decree-law, that it has served to prevent the increase of poverty, but the reality is that not all the propaganda in the world can make the damage that you are doing to the Spaniards hide. Twenty months have passed since the adoption of Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, which gave rise to the measures they want to extend today, and it is very clear that their policies have been tremendously damaging to the Spanish. Spanish families have suffered the greatest drop in their disposable income during the epidemic, 3.3% in 2020, the worst in Europe, but among them the most suffered have been precisely the most vulnerable, to which you have left behind, because your social shield has turned out to be a stoneboard, another lie. In Spain, Minister, we have seen queues of hunger that have not been seen since the post-war period and continue to grow; in Spain we have seen how severe poverty is fired 50%; in Spain we have seen the greatest destruction of employment in Europe, and no matter how much you conceal it by creating public employment, what you are doing is expelling the private sector. In Spain, Minister, we are seeing the spiral of inflation impoverishing precisely the most vulnerable households. Do not forget that inflation is the hidden tax that affects precisely those who have less. You, with your sectarian policies, have a lot of responsibility for the suffering that is taking place in our country. You can't start a fire and then try to turn it off with a glass of water. And yes, it is you who have provoked the fire. The energy policy, for example, which addresses this royal decree needs bottom-up solutions, not patches. According to the Banco de España, households in poverty already account for 4.5 million people, but the social bonus reaches just over one million, leaving those who are going to be left in an extremely critical situation out of the weather. We must now rectify those policies which condemn us to have to pay for the light more expensive than in France or Germany. Spain must ensure its energy sovereignty by all means, and we cannot depend on speculation from third countries. Minister, the same is true of housing. On the same day that the Council of Ministers passed this royal decree-law began the parliamentary processing of the most interventionist housing law in history, a law that harms legal security and that will end, no doubt, reducing the supply and therefore shooting more prices. You don't have to be a guru to understand. It has already happened in Berlin, it has already happened in Catalonia and it will happen again, because never, as much as you strive, will you succeed in overcoming the logic of mathematics. Do we want the rental prices down, yes or no? If you want, I'll give you a prescription: start by offering legal certainty. Otherwise, there'll be no way. [[Applauds]] Minister, if the Spanish have less and less money in their pocket, because they pay more taxes, if with that little money they have left they can pay less and less, because there is more and more inflation, if they have less and less opportunities to win it, because we have the highest unemployment rate in Europe, it is because this government has forgotten them, this government does not have them on its agenda. No one has to tell you, they live it, they notice it in their pocket at the end of the month. That's why I'm warning you that the propaganda time is over. See that there are good films that disassemble all the lies on which you have based your claimed cultural hegemony, so far, so if you want to follow with your expired stories, continue to weave your cloaks progress, but be careful, because you are already beginning to see the seams, beware because you have little left. Today is the first day of the second half of this parliamentary term, you already have fewer days ahead of those who leave behind, your time is already running out and you will leave this government, later than we would like, yes, but long before what you think, because what is coming is the time of Spain and the Spaniards, and there is hope, because Spain will come forward when we leave you behind. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u45	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. When the light rose by 8%, Mr. Iglesias asked for minutes of silence and Mr. Sánchez asked for resignations. Today, 200 % of the light goes up and no one resigns and the ministers clinging to their armchair. [[Applauds]] Yesterday President Sánchez here spoke of robust economic recovery. Today, you, Minister, have said that all international institutions endorse your economic picture. Right now the European Commission has just corrected economic growth to 4.6% by 2021. [[Applauds]] Is it robust recovery? And why are we here today debating the validation of this royal decree? Simply and simply, because Mr Sánchez has led us to the greatest social and economic crisis. To debate this royal decree today is to wreck the social policy of the communist left, the government's sluggish inoperation with economic policy and the desire with the most vulnerable, that the economy is not going as well as Mr Sánchez says and that the recovery is not robust, because it does not reach the families. It is obscene today, 11 November, to be here extending a debate, measures that expired on 31 October. And welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the day of the marmot, because today the minister again tells us that measures are being temporarily renewed. And I ask you, Minister: how have families' lives improved? Are the families better than a year ago with the light rise or the shopping basket fired? Or can you tell the working middle class that it won't affect your government's fiscal hack? Or are you going to tell them it won't affect their disaster? Or are you going to tell them that it won't affect the rise in social security contributions? Can you tell the four million people who want to work and can't or the million people who are in the food bank that recovery is round? Can you tell young people, 35% unemployed, that recovery is being fair? Or can the unemployed who do not receive a benefit be told that recovery is rapid? But, look at them in the face, have courage, tell them the truth, tell them all that they will carry on their backs an ideological rise in taxes of 4000 million euros. Have courage and tell him! [[Applauds]] Look, when you rule, you impoverish the middle classes. It is not acceptable to receive an inflation of 5.5%, that the light goes up by 200 % and today they are shutting down or that the fuels go up by 35 %, because you, when you rule, devour the pocket of the Spanish. Do you know that many families in Spain today will have to choose between food and heat, between computers and shoes, between culture and diapers or that they will have to send their children to bed at seven o'clock in the afternoon so that they do not get cold? Tell these families that recovery is robust. Minister, you don't eat propaganda, let alone play with the expectations of the most vulnerable. Let's talk about housing. Yes, radical sanchism loads individual freedom, loads the principles of private property, and you give free rein to the illegal occupation of homes. Do you think it's normal for them to have occupied a social floor that caters to 140 people with autism? Do you think that's normal? Gentlemen on the left, evicting an okupa is not evicting. Do you know that housing executions have grown, doubled, that 11,000 people have been taken away from them? Or let's talk about fighting gender-based violence. Women continue to be killed, gender-based violence continues to be re-emerged, and the State Pact against Gender-based Violence is in jeopardy. Put it in motion and impulse it. And what about the calamitous minimum living income, which you claim is another pillar of the welfare state? I would say that it is a pillar of the state of unrest, because it is the biggest failure of Sánchez's policy: a measure against poverty that triggers the data of poverty. And why? Because you have executed only EUR 14 billion of the EUR 3000 you had planned, because three out of every four applications have been refused, because only 8% of the population living below the poverty line in Spain benefits from this benefit or because the average amount is EUR 172 per month. How is it possible that the AROPE rate has risen to 26.4% since the minimum living income was approved or that the severe poverty rate has increased from 4.9% to 7%? What do you say to the eleven million people who are in social exclusion, two and a half million more than in 2018? What do you say to the six million people in severe poverty, two million more than in 2018? Are they telling them that they have left no one behind, that recovery is being robust, that recovery is being solid, that the social shield is being a success? Is that what they tell you? You said you weren't going to put anyone behind you, but you haven't left anyone standing, and the only robust thing is the pandemic of poverty and inequality that you are creating. They live behind their backs to the reality of the energy and inflation crisis, they pose temporary measures that do not solve a problem that you have created. And Minister, what about the thermal social bonus that should have been received months ago by 1 300 000 families, and they do not receive aid of up to EUR 125? Do the communities have the information, do they already have the list of beneficiaries, the amounts? Have you already paid 100 million euros? Families are waiting; we are in November and the cold is lurking. And with the one that's falling, do you think it's all right, Minister? Who are they next to? I can only find an explanation for so much greed, so much lewdness and so much incapacity, and it's that life from a Falcon looks pink. Finally, my solidarity and affection to all the palm trees, to all the canaries and to the canaries comrades of all the groups. All help for La Palma is little, as well as well received, but those harmed by the volcano see how the helpers do not arrive. As Ana Zurita said, speed up the procedures and pay; as in Avila, because it has been eighty-eight days since the great fire at Navalacruz began. When are you going to help them, Ministers? Those affected are still waiting. When are these aids coming? For the victims of these catastrophes one day is an eternity, and to make them wait, a demeanor. I'm done. Look at the faces of the unemployed, the young people who want to work and can't, the people who are going to ask for food, and tell them, if they have courage, that economic recovery is robust. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u46	Thank you, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lima Cid has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u47	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as our universal Malagasy Maria Zambrano said, if democracy had to be defined, it could be done by saying that it is the society in which not only is it allowed but it is required to be a person. If we add to this the duty we have as deputies and deputies in this Congress, which is nothing other than to mediate by resolving the conflicts that are generated in our country and that suffer directly from the people we represent and if we add to the experiences of past crises, having really learned, ladies and gentlemen, from that terrible time that we have spent with an unprecedented pandemic, we will find the meaning of this real decree-law, which is nothing other than to accompany the most vulnerable people to improve their present situation, because experience tells us that the improvement of people's well-being is not accompanied by economic improvement. In fact, of that terrible financial crisis there are many people who have not yet raised their heads, and now we are going to put their faces on it. But I'm not going to invite you to see movies, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to invite you to see reality. And please, I'd like you, with all due respect, to leave the tweets, the phones, and put on the shoes of those people who are going through these circumstances. [[Applauds]] If we talk about energy poverty, we talk about that nine out of every hundred people in our country live in fear that they will be cut off from light, water or gas in homes with children in their care, people with disabilities or dependents, single-parent families - or, rather, single-mother families - or large families. That is why we have put in place until 28 February the extension of the guarantee of the supply of water, electricity and natural gas, in addition to allowing access to the electricity social bond through the cataloguing of vulnerable consumers. And if we talk about housing, we are talking about putting ourselves on the table, ladies and gentlemen, that fifteen out of every hundred families in our country have problems with the conditions of their housing - of those who have it - regarding space, technological endowment, environment, economic stress, that is, they do not know if at the end of the month they will pay their rent or mortgage. That is why we propose the defence of the right to housing, its temporarily suspending the procedures of eviction and raising for those who have no housing alternative, that is, ladies and gentlemen, that they have no other roof than the one that covers them, so that those who are for rent and their circumstances do not allow them to pay it will be able to request an extraordinary extension of six months, in addition to being able to request the moratorium or cancellation of their rent, and, look, for large forks, that they do not have one, that they do not have two, that they do not have three, that they have more than ten houses, and who, moreover, those who say that you are the ones who pay the duck, are entitled to compensation until 31 March, and that has not been counted. And now we're going to face gender-based violence. There were 150,785 women who filed complaints of gender-based violence in 2020. And it is estimated that 17,000 did not intervene, but do you know why? Because they lived with a divers between four walls. [[Rumors]] Put yourself on the skin of these women, who sought balance so that their sons and daughters and themselves would not go through that horror one day or another. [[Applauds]] And when the state of alarm was lifted, it went up 17.8%. You know why? Because the abuser lost control over them, and the gender violence really came out, and it increased. But above all, we must reflect socially on what is happening. Do you know who makes the complaints, mostly? Victims, in 71% of cases; not close persons or those who have to protect them. That is why I always remember our dear Carmen Olmedo, who said that a society that has to hide its victims from a crime because it cannot protect them is a failure. [[Applauds]] Therefore, in this royal decree we continue to consider essential services and all resources related to the protection and assistance of victims as essential. We want to continue to protect them with everything in our hand. And, of course, we will continue to do so with our dear neighbours and neighbors of La Palma, who have lost their homes, who have lost their memories, who have lost their businesses or who have them closed, implementing new aids and benefits. I'm done. For the immense respect that I deserve from people who go through these precarious situations and who only expect from us and our solutions of support and accompaniment, we will not enter into the spectacle of you more. Each political group acts in conscience or accordingly, as it deems appropriate. What I am saying here is not to look for the applause of my bench, tweets or headlines, but to try to exercise politics from reason, which gives the conviction to do the best, and from the heart, because don't forget that, although it may seem to you like a joke, if in politics we lose our heart we will lose our closeness to people. [[Applauds]] And she's told by a councilwoman who was in social rights at Mijas City Hall...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u48	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u49	... and in 2008 he was not able to offer them either the minimum living income or the benefits that have been put in place, nor was he able to offer them a housing law, nor was he able to offer them this extraordinary help. With this I conclude. His are the conclusions. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Lima. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 22/2021 OF 26 OCTOBER, adopting urgent measures for the organization in Spain of the twenty-fifth meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. [[File number 130/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u51	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 22/2021 of 26 October, adopting urgent measures for the organization in Spain of the XXIV meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u52	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I stand before you to defend the validation of Royal Decree-Law 22/2021 of 26 October, by which urgent measures are taken for the organization in Spain of the XXIV meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. On 25 October, the WTO announced that its General Assembly would be held in Madrid, as you know, the headquarters of the WTO since 1976, rather than in Marrakech, where it was originally planned, because of the express resignation of the Moroccan Government, due to its health situation and the restrictions on mobility in that country. It is an honour for Spain to be able to hold the General Assembly in Madrid, but, above all, it is a sign of support for a friendly country, a country allied to Morocco, which, in such exceptional circumstances as the present, cannot host the celebration of this important meeting. We also want to highlight the extraordinary capacity of our country to organize in record time and in exceptional circumstances, as I say, as we did with the COP25 in December 2019. I am sure that we will count on the loyal collaboration of all the administrations involved and also of the members of the World Tourism Organization to make the celebration of this assembly a collective success. The dimensions of an international summit of these characteristics, as well as the limited time available to organise it, make it necessary to adopt immediately an extraordinary set of measures to ensure that this operation is implemented in an agile and effective manner. This is the fundamental reason for the royal decree-law that we submit today to validation. We have to be proud that our country can hold this international event, because Spain is perceived internationally as a safe destination because of the success of the vaccination process and the measures taken to ensure safe international mobility. On Monday, the WHO Regional Director for Europe congratulated Spain on the management of the coronavirus pandemic and the vaccination campaign. As I said, we have to be very satisfied with this recognition, because just a year ago some people had doubts and mistrust about the implementation of the vaccination plan presented by the Government of Spain, and today the results speak for themselves: more than 37.4 million people have received the full pattern, which accounts for 88.8% of the target population. Vaccination, together with the extraordinary safety net that we have launched from the Government to protect businesses and their workers, especially in the tourism sector, has led to a path of economic and social recovery to which tourism is also contributing. Month after month the data show that the reactivation of tourism activity and international mobility is gradually consolidated, although we are still far from the record year levels for tourism as it was 2019. However, at the moment we have a greater degree of certainty, certainty and security to help consolidate the recovery of tourism in 2022. This is certainly possible, and I want to emphasise this, thanks to the professionalism and tireless work of the entire value chain of the tourism sector, to its companies and workers, who have been able to adapt in record time to the strictest health requirements for the control of the pandemic. Without their help, without the work of employers and workers in the sector, we would certainly not be in this situation today. But also, ladies and gentlemen, it has been possible to reach this recovery scenario thanks to the public policies promoted by the various political administrations, which have not only been fair to leave no one behind, but have proved to be effective in promoting economic recovery under the health conditions to which it has been adapting. To get an idea of the effective employment protection policy that we have deployed, of the million workers in the tourism sector who came under the umbrella of the ERTE in the toughest months of the pandemic, at the end of October there were around 100,000 people, workers and workers who will undoubtedly continue to have the support and support of public aid. The data, ladies and gentlemen, allow us to be optimistic, allow us to confirm that the recovery of tourism is in progress, and the prospects for the last quarter of the year are placed on an arrival of international tourists around 10.9 million, recovering 66% of pre-pandemic levels. Turning to the actual decree-law, I would like to point out that the holding of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization on the scheduled dates, between 30 November and 3 December, requires the conduct of multiple actions by the various organs of the General Administration of the State, some of which cannot be attended to with their own resources and therefore require that they be performed by third parties through the conclusion of public contracts. As I said, the preparation of the meeting within a limited period of time obliges us to arbitrate urgent recruitment measures, as was already done at the XXVth United Nations Conference on Climate Change, COP25, in December 2019. In these circumstances, the application of the urgency procedure, which is provided for in Article 119 of Law 9/2017 of 8 October of Public Sector Contracts, which transposes into Spanish law the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 201423EU and 201424EU of 26 February 2017, is sufficient to ensure that the necessary contracts can be concluded within the limited time available. This provision makes it possible to expedite procurement procedures through the resolution of some of the time limits for ordinary cases, but the total duration of the resulting procedures would be excessive to deal with the situation to which this royal decree-law responds. Therefore, on a timely basis and taking into account the exceptional situation to which this Royal Decree-Law responds, the first paragraph of Article 1 proceeds to declare the celebration of the XXIV General Assembly of the WTO as a circumstance justifying the application of the emergency procedure provided for in Article 120 of Law 9/2017 of 8 October to the contracts necessary for the preparation and celebration of the said summit. The effects of this precept also apply to those contracts to be concluded in order to meet the needs arising from the organization of the summit, the processing of which would not have been initiated before the entry into force of this royal decree-law. On the other hand, the Royal Decree-Law, in order to gain greater control over the funds earmarked for the organization of the General Assembly, establishes a mandatory management unit through a payment system to be justified. Article 2 of the Royal Decree-Law designates the Secretariat of State for Tourism as the competent body for the recruitment, approval and disposal of necessary expenses, whether contractual or not, and to recognize the corresponding obligations in order to ensure that these actions are carried out in an orderly, efficient and under the authority of a single administrative body. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this rule adopts a precept allowing for the application of emergency processing in contracts to be concluded in order to meet the needs of the organization of the 21st General Assembly of the WTO. In addition, the content of the rule is limited to what is strictly necessary to respond effectively to the emergency situation facing it, since it ensures that the contracts necessary for the conclusion of the agreement can be launched within the time available, but it does so without changing the pre-existing regulatory framework in general. As I have pointed out, recruitment powers are centralized in the Secretary of State for Tourism in order to ensure that the relevant actions are carried out in an orderly and efficient manner under the supervision of a single administrative body. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation of urgency, explicit and reasoned justification for the reasons that have been taken into account by the Government in approving the rule that we are subject to today's validation. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a final reflection. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is a pride and an honour that Spain can celebrate this important international forum that represents the worldwide recognition of Spain as a safe destination, while an inescapable opportunity for Spain's international projection and reaffirm our position of international leadership in terms of tourism. Madrid will be at the heart of the debate on the recovery of world tourism and the design of tourism of the future. In addition, the representatives of the Member States of the WTO attending the meeting will have the opportunity to learn firsthand about the progress made in the project for the new world headquarters of the organisation, which, as you know, will be located the Palacio de Congresos de Madrid, an emblematic place located on the promenade de la Castellana, opposite the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium, where the organisation will undoubtedly gain greater visibility. The royal decree-law that I bring today for validation will allow us to have a more resolute and effective administration in order to be able to address this important international event with maximum guarantees. I would especially like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to support this royal decree-law and, therefore, to facilitate the holding of the XXIV General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. The validation of this royal decree-law, ladies and gentlemen, is a unanimous demonstration of the great importance of tourism in our country and of the support for its revival and modernization so that Spain remains the most competitive country in the world in terms of tourism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. [[The Lord]] Following Morocco's resignation from the restrictions resulting from the pandemic, the holding in Spain at the end of November and early December of the twenty-fifth meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization is good news, and therefore the measures envisaged in the royal decree-law that you have just defended are necessary. Double good news also, because we are hosts thanks to the fact that Spain continues to preserve, and goes on for the half century, the headquarters of the OMT, after the attempt made by Saudi Arabia to opt for this very important organism. In any case, such an attempt should serve as a warning. And in any case, such an attempt should serve as a warning. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not share Mrs Maroto's wishes, because the government is doing a lot of things wrong, and not a few of them impact the tourism sector, including some of the discrediting comments that have arisen precisely in Parliament. In any case, it is pertinent to note that the General Assembly of the WTO will focus its work on innovation, education and rural development, which are precisely issues in which our Government has wasted time and has not used resources. The worrying rural exodus, which has left thousands of virtually abandoned villages, had an opportunity for socio-economic revitalization in tourism, which will be very late for many localities and will be more costly to take advantage of. If the Government, Mrs Maroto, does not apply urgently to providing Internet coverage to the rural environment or to providing it with transport infrastructures in line with the times, all its forecasts of economic growth will dry up in pyrotechnics. On the other hand, the tourism sector, which is crucial for the economy and business, will also be hit by the blue bank's waves around labour reform, whose announced derogation will pose a major threat to the recovery of pre-pandemic employment. I shall, in any case, vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u56	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. The organisation of the Assembly of the World Tourism Organization in Madrid is an opportunity that must be taken advantage of, without any doubt, and that is why it must be done well, so the application of the emergency procedure in public contracts is very necessary and, therefore, we will support the validation of this decree-law. In the field of tourism cooperation is fundamental, and in the case of Spain it is absolutely essential, since we are a country with a great dependence, in addition to being a great power in tourism, and we have seen how we have been hit by the pandemic. It is now about recovery, at the same time as improving the quality of the sector, and deseasonalization, as in the case of Cantabria. Ours is a region that has great tourist power, is included in many cooperation bodies and has always participated in all events to sponsor the sector. Basically, it participates with the regions of northern Spain in the so-called Green Spain, we belong to the Jacobeo Council, we promote the Caminode Santiago in its northern version, the same as the Camino Lebaniego, and we intend to expand our international projection. This cooperation is fundamental, because, apart from our fortresses, like the ten caves that are a World Heritage Site declared by UNESCO, or the beaches, mountains and gastronomy, which your ladies and gentlemen will know, they will surely agree that collaboration with neighbouring regions is good for the regions and for the whole country. I would just like to add that the relationship of the Tourism Council of the Government of Cantabria, as I am informed by Councillor Javier López Marcano, with the Ministry and, in particular, with the Secretariat of State for Tourism is very satisfactory, and therefore they count on our support and our cooperation to make this assembly a success. Now all you have to do is work, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am grateful for the words of the Minister and also of the spokesman for the Socialist Group, who informed us in the past few days about this royal decree, which we obviously understand is necessary because Morocco has renounced the holding of this congress, although I have to tell you that almost the best thing is that I would have said that. Because you've been ruining it when you talked about relations with Morocco, about the management of COVID, etc. Let's talk about it again because it wouldn't be good. Nor do we know - curious that you have one - whether everyone in the Government agrees with this celebration. I do not know whether Minister Garzón has also voted in favour and it is good that we can celebrate tourism in Spain, after his words and his opinion on tourism, which he described as low added value and as being precarious tourism. I don't know if that is shared by the government, I hope not. I hope that assemblies like this will prove to the whole world that Spain is a tourist power, despite what members of the Spanish government say, and that it is good for all the citizens, that it is good for all of Spain. Again I agree that I do not talk so much about what is not the assembly because it runs the risk that what was a favorable vote will end up being a negative vote. In any case, we will vote in favour because we believe it is good for the whole of Spain and for suturism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u59	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u60	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. I must congratulate you on finally bringing in a royal decree-law issued by your Government, which meets the conditions to be so, you know: the extreme and urgent need. After almost two years of parliamentary office it is a merit to have here real decrees-laws that really comply with constitutional requirements. It turns out that Spain is running to replace Morocco as host of the General Assembly organized by the World Tourism Organization, a very important biannual event, with special relevance this year, since it was going to deal jointly among all Member States with the impact that the pandemic crisis has had on the tourism sector at global level, in addition to reviewing the recovery of the sector and implementing new coordinated measures to keep the tourism sector up economically throughout the world. A couple of weeks ago, as you have already made progress, Morocco was giving up organizing this summit to be held between 30 November and 3 December in Marrakech. Of course Spain cannot let go of this occasion, given the importance that the tourism sector has in our economy and given the impact that the pandemic has had on it. It's a very good initiative, even if it's rebounding. Our group positively values this occasion and this royal decree-law for several reasons. Firstly, because we have always defended the value that the tourism sector brings to our country, not only in economic terms but also in reputational terms. According to the CEOE study, even in a year in which the sector has not yet been able to take off completely, such as this 2021, tourism will bring to the Spanish gross domestic product some €70 billion, impressive figures that still account for only 50% of what tourism contributes in an ordinary year, such as 2019. I also agree with you on this point and that it is a good recognition for our tourism sector. I would ask you, or rather I would urge you, to remind some of the formations of this House, which are also within your Government, not to criminalise and not to despise our tourism. We are very clear what the added value of this sector is and we have not stopped putting on the table measures necessary and good for the recovery of companies in the tourism sector and you know it. [[Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Maroto Illera, makes affirmative gestures]] Sit with your head, of course I do. Our delegation to the European Parliament has also not stopped working on this from the very beginning, insisting and encouraging the reactivation of free movement in the European Union, so that we can ensure that European tourists can reach Spain with relative normality and enjoy our services with quality. Secondly, we like this royal decree because it deepens on something in which my parliamentary group, Citizens, has been working constantly, which is to reinforce the external image of Spain. Our country has a global vocation and therefore its ambition must also be global. In addition, the characteristics of Spain make it a special land for many foreigners and an extraordinary destination to host headquarters of international organizations and global summits. In this sense, we are celebrating, as you have also said, the next NATO summit in 2022, which is taking place in our country, but I remind you that some opportunities have been lost along the way, such as the headquarters of the European Medicines Agency or the European Cybersecurity Centre. And this has happened because of lack of ambition, but it is not only a lack of ambition that the Socialist Group, the group that supports the government today, is also a direct consequence of policies and in this way to mortgage the general interest Spain that both PP and PSOE in their years of government have had with Spain. In order to stay in Moncloa, with the support of nationalists and independenceists, we have been allowing these nationalist and populist movements to use the money of the Spaniards to expand that black legend that in Spain terrible and terrible things are done, to which we must not go or tread their territory. Then, I ask you to really start working for that image change and to fight for our external image in the face of the falsehoods that their government partners pour out. That is why we hope you will not miss this opportunity and I would like to emphasise that it is a pity that Spain had to act as a single rebound hostess. We, the Spanish liberals, agree with this royal decree - as I have already told you, we will vote in favour and we will not ask for processing as a bill - and we will also put everything on our side where we govern, because this summit must be a success. I give you the third and final reason why we see this royal decree as positive and that it introduces greater flexibility in administrative procedures, in this case in the public sector. On the one hand, the liberals consider that the State should only act in those areas and areas in which it is strictly necessary and in the most surgical way possible, leaving individuals and organizations to organize themselves as best they consider and establish cooperative relations between them. It is therefore necessary to speed up the administration's processes in order to have a more efficient public sector that ensures that every euro of public money is invested in such a way that it causes the least possible problems and, on the other hand, contributes as much as possible to eliminating them. Having said that, I also say that we have a clear commitment to responsible and transparent public spending, so we demand it, please...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u61	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u62	... extreme surveillance and control of these expenses, to ensure that these measures are not used as an excuse to squander the money of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u64	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister mentioned, Spain has been the seat of the World Tourism Organization since 1976. Our tourism sector has created schools all over the world, being one of the first countries in the ranking of the World Tourism Organisation. Tourism is one of our main sources of economy, but the lack of planning in the sector has led to tourism monoculture in coastal areas or in our Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands, which have no solid alternatives to this sector, and has been manifested during the pandemic. COVID-19 has shown that the dependence of a single productive sector in times of crisis such as that experienced paralyzes economic activity by endangering businesses and workers. Fortunately, unlike in other crises, this progressive coalition government has shown that both workers and businesses can be protected in times of crisis. The social shield created with the ERTE, financing through the ICO or aid to self-employed people, among others, has avoided the economic disaster that would have been the closure of a large part of the companies, particularly those in the tourism sector, and has led to their reactivation as never before. Nevertheless, in other areas, in forgotten areas of emptied Spain, tourism development can be a source of wealth, as well as highlighting its cultural and heritage value by helping to preserve it. At the United Nations We can defend, as the World Labour Organization does, a tourism model that embraces the Sustainable Development Goals, respectful of the environment, maintaining essential ecological processes, helping to conserve natural resources and biodiversity, because tourism is highly vulnerable to and contributes to climate change. Threats to the sector are diverse and include direct and indirect consequences such as increased extreme weather events, water scarcity, loss of biodiversity, deterioration of goods, i.e. the attractiveness of destinations. At the United Nations We can, like the World Tourism Organization, defend tourism respectful of our socio-cultural authenticity, which helps to preserve our cultural and architectural assets, our traditional values and contribute to intercultural understanding and tolerance. A tourism in which socio-economic benefits are well distributed, providing decent, stable and well-paid jobs, i.e. contributing to the reduction of poverty. Indeed, the promotion of green tourism is one of the objectives of the WTO, which seeks to coordinate States to make tourism an activity that promotes peace, defends the environment and continues to generate wealth. We will vote in favour of these urgent measures for the 21st meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization, to be held in Madrid, among other reasons, because we believe that it should contribute to giving us elements to rethink the future of our tourism model. In the Balearic Islands, we know what the sector is doing, but without control, without planning, it tends to consume territory and squander resources. The future of tourism depends on making it sustainable, minimizing its impact. This is the time and the European funds must be the opportunity to strengthen the sector and to bet on diversification and move towards a new and more resilient economy. If Spain is the headquarters of the organization it is because it has been and is a pioneer in the tourism sector. It is good to see how our country remains a benchmark and has the capacity to organise its next assembly quickly in November and December. Therefore, this decree of urgency to be able to expedite the procedures of the organization of this event has the support of our group because we believe it is good news and therefore we support it. A final reflection, Minister. Madrid is not the only city in the State with the capacity to host such events or the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization itself. In recent months, voices have been heard in this Chamber proposing to decentralise state institutions. Well, we must add to that debate the possibility that the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization will be located in the Balearic Islands, undoubtedly one of the most pointed territories in the sector, which has been a testing laboratory at the tourist level and which has exported results to the whole world. What a better place to lead tourism internationally. Finally, it is necessary to place all the institutions, the business sector, trade unions and civil society in order to take advantage of the opportunity offered by this organisation of the next WTO assembly to rethink how our tourism sector should be and how to make it more sustainable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u66	Good afternoon. Minister, she has begun her intervention indicating that the assembly of the World Tourism Organization will be held in Madrid after the resignation of Morocco as a show of support for Morocco, which I am surprised because the decree said: Spain shows its support for the WTO. That Spain welcomes this event is good because congress tourism is encouraged, and VOX has already presented an initiative supporting this type of tourism. We are aware of all that it brings, since those who travel hire with travel agencies, stay in our hotels and tourist accommodation, move in our taxis, buses, rental cars, trains or airplanes, enjoy our bars and restaurants or even buy in souvenir shops and other shops. The question is not whether this assembly is interesting or not, the fundamental question is how this Government acts. Once again, we attended a new chapter: Sanchez and company based on decrees and fingers. I say this because we have already seen that, in a coup d'étatzo, this government has undermined rights and freedoms, kidnapping us in our homes and even preventing the Spanish from working, condemning them to ruin and misery, something that VOX denounced and in what the Constitutional Court has given reason. [[Applauds]] These prohibitions and restrictions have led us to the fall in the economy, to the closure of business, to dismissals and have punished especially tourism, a strategic sector to which you represent; strategic for its weight in GDP and in employment and for its role in the social and territorial vertebration of Spain. I am surprised today that you said in your speech that you have implemented policies that do not leave anyone behind. I have to remind you, Minister, that the measures you have taken and those you have not taken have put thousands of self-employed people, micro-enterprises and businesses at risk and have weakened our destiny because we are increasingly weak as an international tourist destination. Moreover, and worst of all, in the queues of hunger there are many tourism professionals, those whom you thanked and who deserve all our respect, but to those who are abandoning. Yes, we have suffered a health crisis, but it turns out that under the decisions of this Government, more concerned in its ideological agenda than in the defense of interests, they are punishing an essential sector. This decree in its first final provision states that the Government is empowered to make as many provisions as possible, but, on the other hand, it is indecent to read that they justify it by talking about the need for agility in management. At the moment I am thinking of the self-employed and the entrepreneurs, who are being beaten by bureaucratic obstacles, who are months and even years waiting, for example, to carry out a work in their modest business because in this country there is no agility in management and this is hampering our economic activity. [[Applauds]] In its article 1.2 it says - and I quote textually -: '...the release of the funds necessary to meet the expenses generated by the organization of the above-mentioned meeting will be carried out to justify'. However, there is no amount, lack of detail and transparency. Taking into account the background of this Government, we ask ourselves: how much will it cost? What bars will be applied to the selection of companies that provide services? Because, as seen, in many of the urgent routings the money of the Spaniards has gone to pay friends and to pay loyalty - the case of the 53 million Plus Ultra -. We are once again faced with an urgent procedure without expenditure control. Minister, what should be dealt with urgently is that aid should reach those who need it and that this Government should abandon Moncloa for the sake of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] In view of the massive closure of business and the increase in redundancies, because the aid does not come, we have in the government a Socialist Party that governs at checkpoint; at checkpoint, and this time I do not mean the cheque that they hand over to ETA and to all those who hate and are enemies of the nation, but I am talking about the cheque that the government spends but that the Spanish pay with the tax money. Spanish to whom the bill for light and gas, gasoline and diesel, infant milk and sugary drinks, tolls and shopping baskets, tax increases that not only affect VOX voters. Many socialist voters, from Podemos and other groups will agree with me that it is very difficult to earn every penny for the incumbent politician to make a mismanagement or lodespilfarre. [[Applauds]] To speak of waste is to speak of the Socialist Party, that in Andalusia the money of the unemployed was spent on prostitutes and cocaine - I remind you of the case of the EREs, in which twenty-one former senior officials of the autonomous government sixty on the bench of the accused and that it cost the public coffers 680 million euros without any control according to Anticorruption -. The Socialist Party to which Moreno Bonilla makes his eyes, showing a willingness to choose as a partner a Socialist Party that starred one of the biggest cases of corruption in our democracy, friend of the unions of the shellfish and that abandons workers; a party, that of the nation, that governs on the base of waste - the largest number of advisers, the largest number of ministries, the aid that does not arrive -, that of the minister who said on four occasions that he would not raise taxes - and we are already subject to the greatest fiscal haze - that attacks tourism with ministers like Garzón that label it of low added value, or that of the minister who seems to be more concerned to criminalize VOX by accusing us with false statements about the sending of threatening letters. Minister, you said that all Democrats are threatened with death if we don't stop VOX at the polls. In the face of such a hate crime and a crime of insult and slander, which are punishable under the Criminal Code, VOX filed a complaint. Nonos attacks us, attacks the four million brave Spaniards tired of lies and waste and many Spaniards who live on tourism and to whom you leave. Do you know who you're threatening? The tourism sector, industry and trade, by action and by inaction. So we want this assembly to be a success for the good of Spain, but we call them to order, because we do want and we will control each of the cents of these Spaniards who work so hard to earn. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u67	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Group in Congress, Mr Almodóbar Barceló has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u68	Thank you very much, President. Minister, it is an honour for us to have the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization in Spain since 1976. This fact and the opportunity to be able to hold the twenty-fifth General Assembly here must also serve to gain greater knowledge of the WTO, the development and the pride of having its headquarters here and the number of possibilities involved. In addition, over the last few decades, the OMT has been constituted as a body of special relevance for it which was the second world tourist power and the leading country in tourism competitiveness, as it was Spain, given the weight that the tourism economy represents within our socio-economic model and also for the valuable support that its presence in Spanish territory means in terms of our international projection. It is estimated that the fall in international tourism caused by this crisis could result in losses of more than $4 trillion in the global economy during the years 2020 and 2021. It is therefore essential and strategic on the part of Spain to continue to strengthen ties and forge partnerships with the international tourist community until a complete and definitive recovery is achieved. The added value of having the most representative international entity in the tourist field on Spanish soil is still to be found. Mrs Maroto, in the face of the triumphal messages of the government, the reality. And the reality is that the tourism sector is still hit, so much so that accommodation services, travel agencies, tour operators and air transport concentrate more than 20% of the people in ERTE and, if the food and drink service is added, the percentage rises to 41.8%. I would remind you that the sector is losing more than EUR 140 billion. With a view to establishing solid foundations for the reconstruction of the Spanish tourism sector that facilitate and accelerate the recovery and renewal of world leadership and prestige of the Spanish tourism brand, there is an urgent need to strengthen our national tourism sector to be repositioned as soon as possible on the world tourist map, supporting and making use of all existing resources. In this direction, both the permanence and continuity of the WTO in Spain and the holding of its General Assembly mean to us a strategic element of first order. It is essential to continue to build on the development of all available mechanisms and instruments that can be translated into greater levels of advantageous links between the WTO and its host country and, by extension, to increase favourable synergies from which the whole tourism value chain can benefit. In fact, the People's Group presented a node law proposal a few months ago, in which we urged the Government to highlight, within the State's tourism policy, the WTO as a key ally and an element of decisive connection with the rest of the international tourism community. The Spanish tourism industry has in recent years shown the greatest strength in times of crisis, knowing how to adapt, not without difficulty, to the changes that were taking place. Proof that this is the case is that with the support and protection of the tourism sector, destinations or workers, when the People's Party came to the government in 2011, Spain managed to become the world's first destination in tourism competitiveness, the second in tourist spending and arrival of tourists. Facts and data for which we should all feel tremendously proud; proud of the evolution of our tourism, of the great work of its entrepreneurs, workers or destinations, but also of the momentum that should be given from the Government to this activity, giving it the importance it deserves and making it a real political priority, compared to those who intend to demonize it, also some of its colleagues on the blue bench. Minister, you were talking about Spain's global leadership. Much of the success as world leaders is thanks to the work of companies, destinations and workers, but to build it, to achieve it, to point it out and to maintain it from the government we have to deploy courageous and determined actions, we have to have a strategy and a road map, a plan, something that other countries have had clear from the first moment in this crisis and have left our country, unfortunately, behind in terms of support, protection and measures. Because you call ICOs when they are loans; direct aid that never comes and those that come, after very complicated procedures, are scarce; obstacles to international investment; the dubious distribution of European funds, of which the sector knows nothing. All for the sector, but without the sector. In the meantime, more than 120,000 tourist companies have remained along the way, and travel agencies and hotels are closed. I told you once, minister, and I'll tell you again: get out on the street, visit the destinations, talk to the sector. We reach out to them and they have not learned or rectified, they keep waiting for everything to be solved alone, and you know that the storm has not ended. The President of the Government told us here yesterday that recovery is solid and robust, and Brussels certifies today that we are wrong with you. Look, I'll give you an example. In my city, Benidorm, thirty-one hotels have already closed and ten more will do so before the end of the month, in the face of the delay of the Imserso and the low occupation. Uncertainty, Mrs. Maroto. You have voted here against lowering VAT to the sector, lowering air rates, plans for hospitality or agencies; you have rejected the launch of an incentive programme - by the way, the same as Ximo Puig is now asking - to alleviate the unjustified delay caused by Imserso's travel, despite the fact that you have been generating false expectations for users, businesses and destinations since February, and that you are already generating a hole of EUR 250 000 per day for hotels. Despite their optimism messages, recovery is slow to come and many are on the edge. Look, with the lack of activity we add the price of the most expensive light in history; gasoline, insurance, autonomous quotas, labor costs; impose tolls and the shopping basket is in the clouds. They said they weren't going to leave anyone behind and they're not going to leave anyone standing. If in the end they're going to end up charging even for breathing. Do you think that's how a country recovers? [[Applauds]] You believe that the best thing to achieve being world leaders is declarations such as those of former Minister Ábalos, who said that tourism was an activity that had to be sacrificed, waves of another minister, Mr Garzón, claiming that tourism was a sector of low added value; or the passivity of Minister Belarus, on whom Imserso's trips depend, who is putting the rope around the neck of many villages of the emptied Spain, to those to whom they so much like to defend, Mrs Jover, but whose economic activity is centered on the programme of thermalism, which does not end and is already causing the closure of hundreds of businesses, or the most recent, lavicepresidenta Diaz, last week, missing the truth and accusing our hoteliers of crimes, something that has obviously caused discomfort and generates an image of worrying tourism. It is pure boldness, fruit of the ignorance of this Government, and you, while, silently, minister. The problem, Minister, is one of leadership and will, and believe me, Minister, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, neither this Member nor the Group of the European People's Party as a whole is happy about all this. I'm finishing up. The WTO helps destinations to position themselves sustainably in increasingly complex national and international markets where competition is fierce. Undoubtedly, Spain and the WTO have worked closely along history to achieve this positioning of our country among the most important tourist destinations in the world. That is why we will support this royal decree. Only in this way, with strong support for the sector, will we be world leaders again.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u69	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u70	I'm done. Spain did not become the headquarters of the OMT by chance. Spain is a very special country in terms of tourism; a history of success, of the effort and sacrifice of many generations; a country of great entrepreneurs, an example for the whole world. An appointment from the former secretary general...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u71	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u72	Tourism is a horizontal and interconnected sector. Our success depends on collaboration, helping each other and sharing intelligence and experiences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Pérez Abellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the Government of Spain brings to this plenary the validation of Royal Decree-Law 22/2021 of 26 October, by which urgent measures are taken for the organization in Spain of the XXIV Meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization, as the Minister stated in her speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the World Tourism Organization is an international body which aims to promote tourism, representing the main international institution in this field. Since 1976, UNWTO has been the implementing agency of the United Nations Development Programme and, in this capacity, it has carried out the vast majority of tourism development projects funded by the programme worldwide. In the same year, 1976, the headquarters of its secretariat were located in Madrid. Spain has been a member of the organisation since 1975, a year earlier. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the WTO is firmly committed to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, also promotes the global ethical code and plays a central and decisive role in promoting the development of responsible, sustainable and accessible tourism for all, with particular attention to the interests of developing countries. According to the Convention of 10 November 1975 signed between the World Tourism Organization and the Kingdom of Spain, the Spanish Government, in view of its resources, its long experience and its competence in the field of tourism, cooperates with the WTO so that it can pursue its objectives in the most efficient and least costly way possible. In this way, the organization attends the meetings of its organs in Spanish territory and other international meetings and collaborates in various tasks. The Spanish Government, ladies and gentlemen, has, for an indefinite period, handed over the headquarters building to the organization, being authorized to use the facilities and equipment according to their needs. The World Tourism Organization assembly is the most important global meeting of senior tourism officials and high-level representatives of the private sector, and it is also important, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the first general assembly after the health crisis of COVID-19 and for focusing, involving the public and private sector, on a recovery based on innovation, education and rural development. This royal decree is articulated on the emergency procedure as set out in Law 9/2017 of 8 November of Public Sector Contracts, which transposes the directives of the European Parliament and the Council, in particular, in its Article 120.2. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a real decree-law for an extraordinary situation, to which it responds with all the legal mechanisms within our reach. Its objective is nothing other than to ensure the operational complex that runs from 30 November to 3 December, at which the XXIV General Assembly of the WTO is held in Madrid. The dimensions of an international summit of these characteristics, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the imminence in its celebration make it necessary to adopt immediately the necessary measures to ensure that this operation is deployed in an agile and effective manner. Its completion on the scheduled dates requires the conduct of multiple actions by various bodies of the General Administration of the State, some of which cannot be met from their own resources and require that they be carried out by third parties through the conclusion of public contracts. Since much of the preparatory work to be carried out must be undertaken at the beginning of the summit, it is clear that it is not possible to wait for the parliamentary procedure of a law. The celebration in Spain, particularly in the city of Madrid, will have an extremely positive economic and reputational impact. Madrid is the only city, ladies and gentlemen, that has hosted an assembly three times - the last one in 1987 - and Spain is the only country that has been able to host it five times. Spain, as a country, has a responsibility, because, as your ladies and gentlemen know, it has - I said earlier - hosted the headquarters of the WTO since 1976. We therefore have a responsibility to take care of the international institutions and the European Union which are staying in our country. We understand the importance of these and put resources at your disposal for our commitment not only to the organisation, but to the tourism sector and institutional loyalty at all levels. The celebration of the XXIV Assembly is an opportunity to show the world that we have been prepared, ladies and gentlemen, that we are prepared and that we will be prepared. It is an opportunity to show the world our organizational capacity once again, as when we assume the celebration of the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2019, COP25. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has experience in organisation and management; it has experience in hosting major events, major meetings and major celebrations; we are a country of high capacity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I simply want to say to Mrs Rueda that in this country, on the occasion of the COVID, establishments have been closed to save lives and, in tourism, Spain is one of the destinations that is recovering bitter agitated, it has only to visit the airports. [[Applauds]] Mr Almodóbar, ICOs are lines of endorsement for tourism companies that have mobilised the Administration for more than EUR 18 billion. Many companies have been saved. Anyway, I'm just finishing up, Mr. President. I simply want to say that our group supports the validation of this royal decree-law and we thank the majority of the House, the majority of the groups, for their positive willingness to approve the validation of this royal decree in order to be able to hold in Madrid the XXIV assembly of the OMT. Minister, it's going to be a great success. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u76	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the full proposed organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Two amendments to the entire alternative text have been tabled to this proposal. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with initiatives such as this bill of yours, which we are amending today, we are not fighting for women's equality, so we are not defending women's rights. We women do not want to win battles like this; we want to win them with justice, not acting out of revenge, not from being victims to being executioners. Every time you go out to this or any other rostrum shouting against anyone who opposes your precepts, standing up as defenders of women as if they were the owners of our thoughts, our feelings, our fates, they give a pitiful spectacle of hatred and revenge that does nothing to improve things, quite the opposite. Because you, this kind of proposal, show that you are moving for revenge, a revenge that consists in doing as much harm as you understand that one day you did to women, a revenge that consists in making suffering pay by returning suffering. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth. You, from a misunderstanding of feminism, from a position of victimism that only denigrates women, have proposed that we all think that we are better, that we are superior, that we deserve as much as we want to be women; that we do not need anyone, that we are alone, that our children are only our own. But it's not like that. We are neither better, nor worse, nor superior, nor inferior. Like anyone else, we deserve what we get known for our efforts and for our merits. Like all of us, we need others and, ladies and gentlemen, our children, from the very moment of conception, are also their parents'. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, in this path of revenge, of desperation, of flight forward, they do anything to charge themselves with reason to defend the indefensible, to defend that it is a right to kill the children we carry inside, but also to defend that the fundamental rights of those who say otherwise can be eliminated from a pen. Do you really want to end the freedom of assembly, the freedom of expression and the ideological freedom of all those who think that the life of a human being runs from conception to natural death and that it is equally worthy in all its stages? Of all those who rebel against the fact that it is considered a right which is simply a practice allowed and decriminalized? Of all those who believe that it can never be a right that violates the most important of all rights, which is the right to life? You just can't do that, you can't do that. What you can do, what you can do is adhere to that current that has turned abortion into a sexual and reproductive right, which is the formula that the gurus of modern thought have found to turn unwanted pregnancies into a sort of sexual disease or medical problem. You can call clinics or health or sexual and reproductive health centers in those places where instead of healing you kill yourself and where the health care providers become greengrouses. You can continue to compare - as you did in the presentation of the consideration of this bill - an abortion with a vasectomy or with the rupture of a cross ligament. You may continue to prevent mothers from hearing the heartbeat of your children so that they do not know exactly what you are doing or simply to numb their consciences, but if you truly loved women, if you really fought for women, you would understand that your first duty as rulers is to provide those who cannot cope with the economic and psychological burden of unwanted pregnancy more than a free abortion. If you loved women and truly fought for them, you would not behave like the hortelano dog, which neither eats nor lets eat, trying to prevent them from receiving help from those who are willing to help them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an organic law of yours is clearly unconstitutional and, even if you get it into force, it will be declared unconstitutional sooner than later. But that you already know, and that is why you intend to take out this reform of cover, as a proposal of organic law that does not require the submission of any report, because you know quite well - you know very well - that presenting it as an organic law, which would need it, would alert you of its unconstitutionality and would be totally impossible to bring it forward. That's how you use the law to get away with it, because you don't care about the law, because you don't have scruples when it comes to imposing what you want, because you think you can give and take rights to your will. Because for you the law is just something you use when you're interested in and despise when it doesn't serve your interests. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are abusing the majority in power as vulgar dictators, because it cannot be described as anything other than abuse to claim to punish a conduct that is protected by nothing less than three fundamental rights: the right to assembly, the right to freedom of expression and the right to ideological freedom. [[Applauds]] You seek to create an unnecessary and purely ideological criminal type to punish those who come peacefully to offer prayers, help and assistance to women who go to 'abortion', even though you know that this constitutes a clear restriction of fundamental rights and public freedoms that the State has an obligation to defend. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the fact that there has been no judicial decision which has condemned not one of the conduct of the people who come to the gates of these centres, none. You know that there has not been a single complaint or complaint from individuals and not a single judicial or administrative pronouncement justifying a bill like this, none. You know that no woman who has come to abort has ever been prevented from aborting, ever. What seems to bother you, you and the 'abortories', who lose their juicy incomes, is that many women have changed their minds thanks to the help of the volunteers provided, to whom, by the way, they will be eternally grateful every time they look at the faces of their children. [[applause]] If she had received any threats, coercion or violence of any kind, wouldn't she have reported it? Because we are the first ones to say that, if something like this happens, they have to denounce so that all the burden of our Penal Code, which is very clear about this, can fall on these culprits. But this is not happening, ladies and gentlemen, it is not happening; what is happening is that no one likes to be put in front of a mirror when he knows that what he is doing is not lomorally correct, however legal it may be. [[Applauds]] So no, ladies and gentlemen, the reform that you are proposing does not make any sense, but the reform that we are proposing to you with this amendment as a whole does. If you want to reform the crime of coercion, let's do it, but let's do it with a true sense of justice; let's do it for the true equality of rights and not to limit rights that are fundamental in a democracy. If we are to reform the crime of coercion, let it be to undo the misdemeanour in which you have put us, assigning different legal consequences to identical assumptions based on the sex of the perpetrator or victim of the punishable action in your desire to criminalize the male. We, like you, believe that violence is a grave social scourge that must always be condemned and combated forcefully, regardless of who the perpetrator or victim is, in any circumstance, always. We say it clearly so that there is no doubt about it. And that's why we want the crime of coercion to have the same consequences for men as for women, because that's about equality and justice. And so, what we propose to you today is the amendment of Article 172 of the Organic Law of 23 November of the Penal Code, but not to raise the limitation of the fundamental rights of those who come to 'abortions' to try to save lives, as you gentlemen of the Socialist Party claim, but to stop making unconstitutional differences between men and women who do nothing but confront and rape us more and more. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if you want us to work together to end violence, violence against women and all kinds of violence, here we are, here you will always have us. What gives who exercises it and who, what gives. Let us not leave any victims alone, for there is no reason to make any difference, ladies and gentlemen. There was a time when men did not understand the beauty of difference or of complementarity or the immense greatness of the dignity that we share men and women of any race and condition alike, but evil is not fought with evil, but with good. The solution is not to subject those who previously subjected us or to avenge the harm to those who forefathered us by using the law to nullify their rights. Says the great Victor Hugo in his wonderful poem The man and the woman: 'The man is placed where the earth ends; / the woman, where the sky ends'. And so it must be, ladies and gentlemen: different, but complementary and exactly the same. Exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen, in dignity and rights. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u79	Thank you, President. I defend the amendment to the whole of the People's Group to the proposed law of the Socialist Group amending the Penal Code to consider as a crime of coercion to participate in or promote peaceful concentrations in public places or to provide information to women who come to abort private clinics. An amendment in defense of the fundamental rights of assembly and freedom of expression in the face of totalitarianism of those who, in the belief that the only thought worthy of protection is theirs, use the institutions and the legal order in a sectarian way to put it at the service of their interests. As I said in the consideration of this proposal, what lies behind it is a new step by the Socialist Group to limit rights in the light of the ideology of those who exercise them. It is worrying that in the year 2021, in an advanced democracy such as the Spanish one, we have had to claim rights that have been enshrined for four decades. And this group does not say so, as the Constitutional Court has said in the judgments that have declared unconstitutional the state of alarm decreed by the Government precisely because it suspends fundamental rights of citizens and gags this Congress; a torturing use of the law that again carry out with this proposal of law in that error in which the Socialist Party is installed, slave of the radicality of its partners of the far left. They make a partisan use of the order in the background and in the forms. In the forms, because they amend the Criminal Code, a nuclear organic law of our legal system, not with a draft law, but with a proposal for a parliamentary group law to avoid evacuating the mandatory reports of bodies such as the Council of State. We know that your group is in your perfect right to make as many proposals as you like, but you are government, gentlemen of the PSOE. Don't you think that a reform aimed at creating a new type of criminal offence that carries the penalty of deprivation of liberty did not deserve to be dealt with with with with the maximum guarantees? What were you afraid of? That these bodies report on the impropriety of this reform or its possible unconstitutionality? To be progressive is not to bear banners or slogans against causes that sometimes do not exist, because they are the result of their interested manipulations. To be progressive is to respect the rights, freedoms and democratic institutions that protect all Spaniards. [[The lady]] And if inadequate is the form, improper and with clear faces of unconstitutionality is the bottom. On the pretext of guaranteeing access for women who want to abort certain private clinics and, despite not giving you a solo on women who have not been able to do so because of these people, they add to the Penal Code a new crime of coercion to consider such participation or simply to promote concentrations or to provide information in the surroundings of such clinics, that is, a criminal type to punish certain citizens with the most serious penalty provided for in our legal system, imprisonment, for exercising their right to meet or express themselves. You do not ask for preventive measures of an administrative nature in the event of an altercation, nor does the current crime of coercion seem sufficient, which already penalizes the conduct of those who prevent others with violence from doing what the law does not forbid them to do; of course you do not do so, because that requires proving the existence of such coercion, and you do not want that. What you claim is a criminal type that reverses the burden of proof, or even I would say that it doesn't even need proof of charge. For a concrete collective of Spaniards it will be a crime not only to meet but also to stay to meet. Put the name and last names of those very dangerous criminals and we'll be done as soon as possible. I will give you a list of situations for which you, following your argument, can bring reforms of the type of coercion here. When are you going to bring in a new type to protect all those citizens who are daily raped, even physically, for exercising their right to express themselves or to label their business in the official language of your country? When are they going to bring about a reform to protect those citizens who suffer threats or physical aggression because of their perceived political participation? When is your reform of the Criminal Code to consider, yes, the crime of coercion to focus on places of religious worship or cultural spectacles to prevent them from coming? I know this is wasting time because your goal isn't that. Their intention is the same in which they have been working these three years: to dismantle our constitutional building and build a new legal order at the service of their ideology and partisan interests, with selective right depending on who exercises them. Because while with this proposal of dubious constitutionality they criminalize a group of people for whom they apply for prison sentences, with other initiatives they decriminalize and grant impunity to those who violently even attack our constitutional institutions and symbols, the religious feelings of millions of Spaniards or carry out acts of exaltation of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, why do you oppose the proposal of the People's Party to ban tributes to age-olds and thereby prevent those who have suffered kidnapping, extortion, those who have lost a loved one killed by a terrorist bandit from being humiliated and harmed by those who caused him that harm? Why don't those meetings and the violent suffocations that are proclaimed in them deserve you to bring here a criminal charge? [[Applauds]] They are giving these people and collectives an unlimited right to harass, humiliate, despise other citizens whom you desist without showing them the minimum duty of protection that they do show here today, in this lax and partisan interpretation of freedom of expression that is only such if you like it. It is truly outrageous that those who consider the people referred to in this proposal to be despondent and deserving of imprisonment are the same as those who allow other concentrations that would embarrass any democracy; that those who today will rise to this rostrum to repeat the incendiary speeches against those dangerous citizens who commit the grave crime of distributing Sonchian leaflets attack the courts of justice, the security forces and bodies and, ultimately, our rule of law, in defense of those convicted of assaulting temples, assaulting authority or kicking a police officer, a public worker. Do you really not believe that these attacks are aimed at intimidating or coercing judges, prosecutors, police officers, to try to prevent actions or decisions based solely on the law and that it is precisely those that protect all citizens from criminal conduct? Don't you believe that these attacks are acts of harassment of our constitutional structure and the rule of law, thereby guaranteeing the equality of all Spaniards before the law? We think so. And to that, gentlemen of the PSOE, you are also a party, as we have seen with the unfortunate attempt to use even this House to fail to comply with a court ruling. So, gentlemen of the PSOE, try to make us believe that this is going to protect some citizens - in this case some women - without even giving data to justify that they have really been prevented from exercising a right. If they really want to protect women we will not tire of repeating over and over again that they start doing so for the weakest, for which they cannot defend themselves; act against once again the politicians responsible for the abuses suffered by the minors under the supervision of their socialist government in the Balearic Islands, because that is a deceivable and criminal case. [[applause]] We are not going to fall into their ideological traps, I repeat, nor will they be afraid of their punitive populism to persecute anyone who does not sustain subversion of things. Do not put smokescreens to cover the plight of Spanish women, with the second highest unemployment rate in Europe. With you, poverty in Spain has a woman's face. Work for women to have more opportunities and thus be more free to make decisions, with measures to support families, for reconciliation, for promoting employment, lowering taxes on self-employed women... If you do not know, it is very easy, to support the amendments of the People's Party to the budgets, which represent greater opportunities for women, rather than allocating Spanish taxes to fatten their already indecent list of advisers, especially and precisely in the Ministry of Equality, a ministry that is the best example of the inequality you collect by another way in this proposal. For peaceful citizens, jail. Nothing but jail. For convicted criminals, a good position in the ministry at the expense of the Spaniards, including those Spaniards who are in poverty. [[applause]] I really do not know how, especially to the MPs of the PSOE, the face of shame does not fall, because this is why this proposal of law goes: to limit fundamental rights to the Spaniards because of their ideology, to exclude, to discriminate. That is why this amendment is necessary and necessary in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs Berja Vega.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by devoting a few minutes to detailing the service sheet of the People's Party on women's sexual and reproductive rights. Year 1978: Decriminalization of contraceptives. What did the forerunner of the People's Party, the People's Alliance, vote on? Against. 1985: Decriminalization of abortion in Spain. What did the People's Alliance vote? Against. Year 2010: Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act. What do I vote for the People's Party? Against, and filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court. Year 2014: Minister Ruiz-Gallardón intends to repeal the abortion law. What happened to him? That a massive demonstration of women arriving from all points of the country put Gallardón, Rajoy and the People's Party in their place. [[Applauds]] Thanks always to the 'train of freedom'. And, ladies and gentlemen, year 2015: The People's Party amends the Abortion Act, taking away their right to girls of sixteen and seventeen years old. This is just a summary, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of its management and of its service sheet on sexual and reproductive rights. The PP has the sad record of being the party that has systematically opposed the recognition of women's rights in this country. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we expected no less from the People's Party. Today, they once again materialize that systematic opposition to women and present us with an amendment to the whole exercise of a women's right. Indeed, how little the People's Group respects women's rights if they devote their intervention to giving rallies on co-official languages, how little the People's Group respects women's rights!Look, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the autonomy of women to decide on our motherhood has always seemed an excess to them. Your leader, married, told us that we didn't know very well what we were carrying in when we were pregnant. Will Mr. Married explain to the women what we carry inside when we are pregnant? [[Applauds]] Today they present themselves here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, aligned with the far right, to try to prevent women from exercising their rights in freedom. The VOX thing, what I expected; the People's Party thing, sadly the usual thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative - by the way, it is not brought by the members of the PSOE, we are bringing by the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - is to promote that the exercise of a right recognized by the Spanish legal order is not violated. [[applause]] The right is already recognized in Spain; the right to abortion is already recognized in Spain, what we are going to do with this reform of the Penal Code is to protect its exercise in freedom. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the harassers who find themselves at the doors of the clinics have only one intention and it is not to pray, it is to coerce women's freedom to prevent them from exercising their right to decide about their motherhood. They try to deceive them with false information, turn them into prayer communities to make women feel guilty, hinder the passage to clinics and even teach them photos of fetuses or call them killers. Abortion or not is a complex decision, yes, ladies and gentlemen, but women's personal. Who do they think they are to tell women what we have to do? Who do they think they are? [[Applauds]] These groups appear in an organized way; some even, ladies and gentlemen, have been named after and are called the'rescuers'. Don't tell me, really, that the rescuers don't look like a horror movie. It is hard to believe that there are people in this country who are dedicated to that, but yes, we have them, and, by the way, well financed, and here everyone is alluded to. These surrogate rescuers mount surveillance shifts so that no women can escape. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in Spain, where great legislative progress has been made in the area of equality between men and women, and we must be very ashamed of this! In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this is already regularized in other countries in our environment. Disinformation is criminalized in France, including on websites, and there is the offence of preventing abortion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the exercise of a right and in this country these people are trying to prevent women from exercising their right. And since this is a debate, let us discuss it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. To excuse that today you come here with an amendment to the whole hand of VOX, you give us five arguments. With the first argument you call us dehypocrits and sectarian use of the institutions and of our legal system. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you do not understand the meaning of democracy very well. It costs you, of course, you have the past you have. [[Rumors]] But I will remind you how a law is made, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. The laws are passed here in the legislature, which is represented by deputies. Do you know who chooses Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament? Citizenship with your vows, ladies and gentlemen. Depending on what the citizenry has chosen, the laws come forward or not. Therefore, they are not political interests, the laws are the result of what the majority of citizens have voted for. What the People's Party does not assume is that they lost the elections and do not have enough votes to win and carry out votes. [[Applauds]] Second argument by the People's Party. We are told that if there were coercion, they would already be covered by the Penal Code. No, ladies, they wouldn't be typified. This is an offence against freedom when exercising not only a right, but also access to a health benefit. It is a crime even against health because, even if you do not understand it, sexual and reproductive health is also health, and it affects women in particular. This is not what I praise, it is what all the international human rights and public health agencies say. And you should understand, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that what is happening is that women are being harassed for going to the doctor, ladies! It's just that it's very serious and that's why a specific typification is needed. Third argument that you have brought here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We are told that we want to prohibit the right of assembly or limit freedom of expression. It is curious that this is said by the authors of the Law gag. Very curious! [[Applauds]] Look, what happens at the clinic doors is not a meeting. These organized people come to the door of the clinics to try to coerce women. They're groups that try to harass them so they don't abort. That is not freedom, neither freedom of speech nor freedom of assembly; that is coercion. And make it clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what are your concerns about this initiative? You worry that you know the stalkers very well, some are very close to you. Fourth argument they defend: they tell us that we are making a legal order that is not objective, but ideological, in the service of our political interests. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that the non-esideological legal order? Do you really think the Law gag was not ideological? Do you really think that each of the education laws that the People's Party has made, with the only votes of the People's Party, were not ideological? But whom you want to deceive, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] All policies and initiatives have ideology. What are the limits? The Spanish Constitution. But, of course, this initiative is ideological. Welcome to parliamentarianism and to the ideology that the political debate must have! But, at the same time as ideological, it is objective because it responds to a reality, that experienced by women who suffer harassment when they are going to exercise a right they have, which is the right to abort, and we are here, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to the problems that citizenship has. The problem exists and we will solve it. The Socialist Party is not going to look elsewhere. We have been brave and we will continue to be brave, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The last argument of the People's Party: they tell us that with this proposal of law we criminalize the right of peaceful assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't criminalize anyone. Doesn't it seem to you that the murder of a woman who goes to a health center is criminalizing herself? Don't you think it criminalizes yourself to give a woman a coffee so that she doesn't comply with a medical recommendation, which is fasting before abortion, and so that day no longer aborts? We don't criminalize anyone at all. Those who have been involved alone in the Penal Code are the ones who do this barbarity against women. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps what we would have to ask ourselves is what the People's Party understands for freedom of expression. Is it freedom of expression to insult, covet, frighten, persecute, harass, prevent passage? Is that freedom of expression? Perhaps you should stop to think a little bit instead of being dragged away by your radical far-right travel companions, who seem to have been kidnapped in terms of the most ultra positions. These are the five vague arguments that bring us here today and that I have had the consideration of disassembling them. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. It is very worrying, very worrying, that today your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and your ladies and gentlemen of VOX come here so closely, but above all it is worrying about your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The ideological drift in which the People's Party has sunk is not the same as a liberal party or a conservative party, the ideological drift in which they have entered is the same as an anti-system party. And I'll explain why I call them anti-system. Elaborto is a recognized right in Spain; the democratic system, through law, places in women the freedom to decide about their motherhood, and you want to prevent it by supporting harassers. Therefore, this anti-systematic party is opposing the democratic system, that is what the People's Party is doing. Stop torturing women's rights, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u82	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish, please. I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u83	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, withdraw this amendment as a whole if you still want to be able to self-proclaim yourself as a supposed party defending freedom. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs Berja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u85	Thank you, President. Although the Socialist Party Member did not want to address us and our speech at any time, I am going to like to read something I wanted to read in this House. Man is the highest of creatures; woman is the most sublime of ideals. God made a throne for man; for woman, an altar. The throne exalts; the altar sanctifies. Man is a brain; woman is a heart. The brain makes light; the heart produces love. The fecund light, the love resurrects. The man is strong for reason, the woman is invincible for tears. Reason convinces; tears move. Man is capable of all heroisms; woman, of all martyrdoms. Heroism ennobles; sublime martyrdom. Man has supremacy; woman, preference. Supremacy means strength, preference represents right. Man is a genius; woman is an angel. Genius is immeasurable; the angel is indefinable. The aspiration of man is the supreme glory; the aspiration of women is the extreme virtue. Glory does all that is great; virtue does all that is divine. Man is code; women are gospels. The code corrects; the gospel perfects. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u87	The man thinks; the woman dreams. Thinking is having a larva in the skull; dreaming is having a halo in the forehead. Man is an ocean; woman is a lake. The ocean has the pearl that adorns; the lake, the poetry that ignites. The man is the flying eagle; the woman is the roarer who sings. Flying is dominating space; singing is conquering the soul. The man is a temple; the woman is the sanctuary. In front of the temple we discovered ourselves; in front of the sanctuary we kneeled. Anyway, the man is placed where the earth ends; the woman, where heaven begins. [[Rumors]] I insist, ladies and gentlemen - I see that sensitivity is not yours - so different but complementary and exactly equal in dignity and rights is how VOX wants the men and women of this country. [[applause]] Too bad your prejudices won't let you hear it, because the only thing we're telling you from this rostrum and from all the places where we can say it is that we have the entire right of the world to be against abortion and to manifest ourselves in that sense where and when we consider it. What we are telling you is that we will never bury this debate, because we believe, because we know that there is a person in his mother's womb from the very moment of conception. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] What we're telling you is that we want to help women who don't want to abort and who do so because they don't see another way out. What we are telling you is that we want to protect women from any kind of violence, that we are against any kind of aggression, threat or coercion. What we are telling you is that fundamental rights such as the right to life, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and ideological freedom cannot be violated. What we are telling you is that there is no need to limit the rights of anyone to protect women. And what we ask of you, what we demand on behalf of all those whom we represent, is that you stop, please, once you limit the rights and freedoms of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Angolo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u89	Thank you. Your Honor, don't confuse your situation with ours. In the People's Party we are only responsible for our initiatives, which we present in freedom and defend with conviction. [[Applauds]] It is you, the lords of the PSOE, who are assumed to execute the interests of your radical partners. Therefore, do not confuse situations. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u91	With your intervention you have confirmed your sectarianism. You can make all the proposals you want because the Spaniards voted them, and who put us here? Do we not have the same right as you to defend what we believe is harmful to the Spaniards? Sectarianism. Is that what they want to stop us, too? They want to stop us from doing that, too? [[Applauds]] You have given here many counter arguments for our amendment, you say. What he has not given is not a single argument, neither today nor in the previous debate, which justifies his proposal. You have not given a single data that you believe that women who want to exercise this right to abort in clinics have not been able to do so because of the presence in the vicinity of certain people. You have not given any legal argument that invalidates that the current crime of coercion, if such assumptions exist, does not serve to give an answer to it. Moreover, austed has betrayed it the subconscious, because you have said here: the ones who are criminalized and get used to the Penal Code are they. Well, if they're already in the Penal Code, what's the point of another specific type? Of course, because you are not able to justify the opportunity and necessity of this proposal. I repeat, we are talking about the limitation of fundamental rights. Yes, Your Honor, of the limitation of fundamental rights protected by the Spanish Constitution, whose exercise for you deserves a criminal accusation, the most serious of our order: imprisonment, deprivation of liberty. And you have not been able to justify that we are facing a crime of such magnitude that a new criminal type is needed. You have referred to the data given to you by the clinics concerned - to whom you are lobbying today - of 2018. If this is such a serious problem, why have they not even bothered to see the evolution that this has been able to have until the year 2021? Because you do not bring here a proposal to guarantee rights that you are not able to justify being violated, you are trying to punish the exercise of constitutional rights to a concrete group of citizens just by thinking differently from you. I insist, we are talking about criminal law, we are not talking about other issues, and you have a lot of cold blood for a demagogic speech, mixing conmerinous barbecues, asking for imprisonment for people who are not able to believe that they have committed any crime, while they oppose, for example, the permanent prison that can be reviewed for those who do commit crimes against women, against girls-that does cause social alarm - while you are allowing tributes, meetings, terrorists in the places where the victims live, in the surroundings where the victims live; while your partners, with their consent, attack our judges, our police, our institutional symbols and our rule of law. [[applause]] And now that you get it out, I'm sure you're going to amend the Citizen Security Act, you're going to make an anti-police law, a law precisely to protect these people, those collectives that don't respect others. While you are asking for prison for people who have not been able to believe that you are committing any crime, do you consider Otegi a man of peace and negotiate budgets with them? Are you really going to teach us lessons? What will be the next thing, gentlemen of the PSOE, to ask for prison for those citizens who on the street boogie Pedro Sánchez desperate because his nefarious politicians leave them without work, because they can't pay the light or because they can't have their businesses, suffocated by taxes? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Because that's what's going on out there while we discuss your purely ideological propositions here. You live disconnected from reality...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u92	Mrs. Angulo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u93	I'm done, Madam President. We are not going to be dragged with your smokescreens to divert us from the Popular Party's goal: to solve the real problems that you have created for the Spaniards. And you know what I tell you? That the Spaniards count on the People's Party, because if you voted for them, so do we. And we're going to continue to make a wall of containment of their nefarious politics, those that every day say the polls, but especially the street...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u94	Mrs. Angulo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u95	I'm done. Your policies, fortunately, I hope you have the days counted. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u96	Mrs Berja Vega has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u97	Thank you, President. Mrs Angulo, you are right, the Spaniards put you there, with eighty-nine seats and in the opposition; there the Spaniards put you there. [[Applauds]] Mrs Angulo, it is really very worrying that today who spoke for the People's Party in this rostrum was more a militant or a deputy of VOX than a deputy of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to address the citizens, those people who have doubts, to vote for those who vote. Look, women have always aborted. Before, when the abortion was not legal, they had to go to London in hiding, but that could only be done by those who had money to pay for it, that is, the daughters of the fortunate. [[Applauds]] Those who had no money, the daughters of the working class also did it, they also aborted... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u99	... But they aborted clandestinely and in places that were not safe, putting their own lives at risk, under inhuman conditions. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the rich, who could pay for it, went to London and the poor died trying, doing it here, because it was illegal in Spain. The right to abortion does not require the abortion of any woman, ladies and gentlemen. The right to abortion allows us to be the women who decide whether we want to be mothers or not. This is a right that equals all of us, ladies and gentlemen, that equals us that money is not what saves a woman's life, that it is Spanish health that protects us. Citizenship has already made its own the recognition of this right, so what we have now is to protect it - and again I address people who have doubts - because this, ladies and gentlemen, can happen to us all. To decide to be a mother is an option, but not to be a mother is also another option, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have portrayed yourselves very well today. You before, with VOX, you were campaigning in the same game, VOX and PP were campaigning in the same game, they were campaigning in the same acronyms. Today you continue to militate, but in the same ideas, you have the same ideas. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we don't teach lessons, we have memories. The Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence was promoted by the Socialist Government of Zapatero, the Abortion Law was promoted by the Socialist Minister BibianaAido and the State Pact against Gender Violence was promoted by the PSOE, funded by the PSOE and developed by the PSOE and the coalition government. [[Applauds.-Protests]] You too should have memory, ladies and gentlemen. Does anyone in this Chamber recall a single advance in rights or freedoms that has been driven by the right? One, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Ledesma Martín utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u100	Mr. Ledesma, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u101	No one remembers it because it just doesn't exist. [[Applauds]] The rights and freedoms in this country have always been promoted by the Socialist Party, they should have memory. In the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act, what did the People's Party vote on? He voted against it. In defining gender-based violence as a European crime, where has the People's Party been? He's been against it. In the Law on the Integral Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, where is the People's Party? He's with VOX, against it. It's not lessons, it's memory, ladies and gentlemen. As for the prayers, I told you, no one is telling you not to pray. Do it and, if you can, ask for public health in Madrid and Andalusia, to see if there is God who fixes the dismantling that you are making of public health the right, but leave the women quiet. [[applause]] In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to thank the work of the feminist movement always in defense of women's rights and also the claim and work of ACAI, of the Association of accredited clinics for the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, so that we know this reality. This initiative seeks to defend the exercise of a right, ladies and gentlemen: either with women's rights or with cavern and machismo; there is no other option, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u102	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u103	I'm done. This initiative will go ahead, anyone who gets ahead will get ahead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Berja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u105	Thank you, President. Today there could be two debates on the table, a legal one on whether the laws - and a law like the Penal Code - have to be minimal in style or whether they have to specify to the very last detail. If it were minimal in style, that is to say, it represents an orientation and it is the judges who have just imposed the meaning, it would require a shared approach to fundamental rights on the part of the judges and we already know that the criterion is not and therefore makes sense, which has led us to debate by the PSOE. It is a consensus that does not exist, we will see it later with the renewal of the Constitutional Court. However, what PP and VOX have brought us here today is not a legal debate. In fact, the deputy of VOX has come to pray. Look, we are for freedom of worship - it would just be missing -, what we are not going to allow is for your rosaries to decide what we do with our ovaries and our future. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We're not going to allow this. [[The Lord]] But today the People's Party and VOX do not bring us a legal debate, they bring us a debate that is false, a false dilemma. We are told that the ideological freedom of people to harass women who are going to abort goes beyond women's right to decide on their body. And this is false, because the right to freedom of expression is a right born within the framework of the defence of human rights; that is, the right to freedom of expression is born so that the weak can criticize the power, not so that power can go against fundamental rights. What VOX and the People's Party are doing today is misrepresenting, is making a manichean interpretation of the right to freedom of expression. And it's not just a theoretical debate, it's that, as has already been said in this rostrum by the MP of the PSOE, this moves into concrete pressures at the gates of abortion clinics, in ultrasounds in vans. Do you know that a VOX deputy from the Madrid Assembly was dedicated to doing ultrasounds in vans at the gates of the abortion clinics? That's why they defend what they defend, because it's their people who are harassing women. This is a false debate, freedom of expression cannot go against the fundamental rights of women. You do not rescue, you do not want life, you are abusers who extort and take advantage of women in a complex situation, of confusion, in a harsh situation. [[Applauds]] This isn't rescuing anyone, this isn't rescuing anyone. But what VOX has come to explain to us today is not what they intend to do in relation to the Penal Code; they have come to tell us that the day they send the first thing they are going to do is go against women's rights, go against the right to decide about our own body, who we want, who we fuck and when we have children and we have no children. [[Rumors]] This is what these people have come to explain to us, that the day they send, that if in 2023 they end up sending with the People's Party the first thing they will do is go against women's rights. You know what? Most of VOX's ladies and gentlemen are gone, but I'm sure they'll see me on TV. You just want men in your country, white gentlemen, rich and heterosexual, and society is much wider than this. [[Rumors]] Too much feminism is there for the white and rich lords to decide about our future, this won't go away. Finally, to the MPs of the PSOE who have brought us the law here in this plenary: thanks for bringing the law, but abortion also has to be a material public right, it cannot be a recognized right, but then the women have to go to private clinics to abort and pay between 300, 400 and 500 euros to abort, because this is what is happening in reality. We need abortion to be a material public right, for women to have abortions in public clinics, in public health, accompanied and without resorting to private clinics because they are not involved in public intervention. So thank you for this initiative, we hope for the next, concrete realization of the right to abortion. I ended with an appeal to all feminist compañeras and also to all men who are willing to fight for our rights. Accompany your friends, girlfriends, sisters, whoever it is, to abort. Don't let the women fall into the hands of these abusers. The right to abortion is ours, it was won in the street, it was won illegally, and they're not going to erase it. Watch the feminist fight! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u106	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u107	Mr. President, I left on guztioi. Again, the right, either VOX version or its PP version, agrees on how to respond to women who disagree with their ideological approaches. Have no doubt that we are many dissidents, I proudly defend it. Repeating our approaches over and over again can cause boredom, but we are not going to remain silent because the stories create realities or, at least, imaginary ones, and most of us operate, on many occasions, on that basis. You, the right-wings, are continually lying about issues of concern to citizens, to create anxiety and insecurity and to use it politically, even though this generates attitudes of hatred. They are skilled in twisting the narratives and arguments to appear as the saviors of fundamental rights, when in reality their political action is a continuous search for the limitation of these for those people and collectives who do not defend subpostulates. This is what you call a legal order in the service of an ideology, isn't it? And what do they call or what do we call those who still strive to deny a reality as obvious as that sexist violence kills, generates great suffering and leaves orphaned girls and boys? Several years ago, representatives of feminist groups in Navarre, together with professionals from the Andraize Sexual and Reproductive Health Care Center in Chantrea, appeared on the Health Commission of the Parliament of Navarre to denounce the harassment of right-wing groups towards women who decided to interrupt their pregnancy. Even, at times, the Archbishop of Pamplona himself joined because, in this matter, we have met with the Church. Then they told us: the situation of harassment and pressure becomes unsustainable, women are overwhelmed, approach them at the entrance of the center and feel helpless. Some women have had to endure physical assaults, they said, like grabbing their arms abruptly so they don't go into the clinic. Is this an absolutely peaceful and uncoerced context, as they allude? This happened years ago, and it continues to be repeated in Ansoáin, in Gasteiz, in Donostia, and in other cities of the state. They are violating and restricting women's freedom, even if they are trying to argue otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen on the right, we have his hypocrisy. They oppose the doors of clinics where interruptions take place, when in some cases, such as in Navarre, their owners were on their own electoral lists. Women who go to clinics want to carry out their decision in an intimate and private way, and what they least want is to initiate a judicial process against those who incriminate and restrict their freedom. You guys, if you were in the spelling, would you be willing to add that plus to the decision to terminate the pregnancy? Leave us alone, we do not need your paternalism; our reasons should only be valid for us, because we have decided. We are very clear that the situation we are currently experiencing with regard to the lack of guarantees that termination of pregnancy will be free and free for all women who need it, rather than with the reform of the Criminal Code, must be achieved through the reform of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the termination of pregnancy in 2010. This is being demanded by thousands of women and a large part of the citizenry. Remember that in 2014 feminism went ahead with Minister Gallardón for the so-called abortion reform, but the law that was left is water in many respects. It is necessary to guarantee the exercise of the rights granted for the termination of pregnancy in the context of public health. If this benefit were guaranteed on the public network as one more, in a standardised way, it would finalise the issue that brings us here today. We call again for the abolition of the mandatory three-day period of reflection, the elimination of maternal or paternal authorization for children under the age of sixteen and seventeen years, that women be given access to information and that conscientious objection be regulated so that access to recognized rights is not impeded. And finally, we once again claim sex education as a tool for free sexuality for all people, both in the recreational-relational and reproductive dimension. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u109	Thank you very much, President. I'll speak briefly. The parliamentary groups VOX and the People's Party are submitting amendments to the proposal for a law amending the Penal Code to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments will not count on the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. The arguments of the People's Parliamentary Group do not differ from those already put forward in the debate and the Basque Parliamentary Group does not share them or what is proposed, which is to leave things as they are today. VOX, for its part, not only calls for the non-incorporation of offences against the freedom of the proposed article 172 quaterde harassment, but also, in the heat of its negationism of gender-based violence, proposes the repeal of existing criminal types against freedom where the person offended by mild coercion is a woman in the field of relations between partners or even particularly vulnerable persons, minors and disabled persons living with the aggressor, ascendants, descendants or siblings or persons under custody or custody for their particular vulnerability in public and private centres, all as a result of proposing the deletion of paragraph 2 and the second paragraph of paragraph 3, both of article 172 of the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts are no match for VOX's negationism. The facts confront all of us that one of the most important and worst prognostic crime problems in our society is violence against women and not an apocalypse of menas and murderers with whom he tries to intoxicate VOX every day. Such an unencouraging prognosis stems from the fact that eight out of every ten assaults on women are the work of their partners, ex-partners or family members, and seven out of every ten assaults occur in the domestic sphere, at home. All this according to the crime data recently published by the Ministry of the Interior in its 2015-19 series. Returning to the question, I would like to recall that the Basque Parliamentary Group supported the initiative and we demand that we be very assured of the people who want to exercise their right, and without having to suggest by those who do not share the regulation on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy their freedom of expression to act in the vicinity of accredited health centres, harassing women and health care providers. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, acting as a regular police officer is not freedom of expression; crippling questions and considerations of women who have not claimed their prayers, their advice or their support either freedom of expression; interfering in the life of another against their will is not freedom of expression; invading the privacy of women in difficult transit and who have not asked them to be rescued is not freedom of expression; violating the exercise of a right is not freedom of expression; harassing and coercing in a premeditated, organized and persevering manner is not freedom of expression either. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the countries in our cultural environment where the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy has been recognized, the same patterns are reproduced. Those who call themselves generally provided movements claim freedom of expression, and women and health care workers report harassment, intimidation and actions restricting their freedom or will. In all countries, the situation is gradually becoming more aware and institutional protection measures are being taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the Spanish State cannot be an exception. A modern and tolerant society that has given itself rules and has chosen the rule of law cannot tolerate such conduct, must adopt it and put the means in place to prevent it from happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with amendments to the whole which deserve consideration of possible social setbacks in the face of women's rights in a democratic and advanced society like ours. The groups of this House would have to think like the liberals about freedom. Freedom is not guaranteed, we must fight for it energetically, defend it from those who want to make us back. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is not free. Freedom sesuda day by day. The law recognizes the right of women to abort, to decide freely on their bodies in the case of pregnancy. The system also has to provide support and services to all women who decide and want to have their children, taking special care of those women who go through the worst, women who are in greatest need. However, women are free to abort in the circumstances recognized in our legislation. It is a hard and individual decision of each. We must exercise that right freely, without being harassed, without being judged, without being coerced by our decision-making, and as the Ombudsman's own report states in this area. My freedom, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, I can exercise it, but as long as they do not trample on the freedom of others. I believe that women have already experienced enough social impositions that have diminished their right to equality, and I am proud to say that, although we have much to go on in terms of conciliation, co-responsibility, glass roofs, the current situation is different. The People's Parliamentary Group is presenting us with an amendment to this proposal for an organic law on the grounds of legal problems in its drafting, when the real problem they have is political. In 2019, the President of the People's Party stated that he would repeal the Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act of 2010 if his party were to reach the Presidency of the Government. It should be remembered that his party already ruled Spain for seven years and with an absolute majority, but decided to not touch or do anything at all. It is the usual double game of the People's Party: to promise in the opposition what it refuses to fulfill in the government. Not to mention that the current mayor of Madrid, Mr. Almeida, recently stated that he was a re-enactment to the Law of cases for the voluntary termination of pregnancy in 1985. Without prejudice to the improvements required by this legislation, the problem of the People's Party is not a procedural issue, but is related to the exercise of women's rights. Evidence of this is that today we continue to discuss this issue to the extent that we are still awaiting a ruling by the Constitutional Court in response to its unconstitutionality appeal against the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the termination of pregnancy. The competition between the People's Party and VOX to corroborate which is the right-wing hegemonic party cannot be done at the expense of women's reproductive rights. Leave women alone in the exercise of our rights, which with so much effort we have also worked to achieve the current situation, and with so much effort other women have worked before, who have really gone wrong, to be able to exercise their freedom, to be able to advance on equal terms. [[applause]] This position, in addition to the current negotiation of the President of the Community of Madrid and the VOX Parliamentary Group, is a tangible proof of the lack of respect for minority groups, for migrants, for minorities and for women as they jointly govern both the People's Party and the VOX. The statements we have heard in this House by conservative groups show a double standard of the People's Party in relation to the rights and freedoms of people. For this party, only those conducts that run counter to their moral convictions must be punishable, regardless of whether they limit the right or not of other persons. However, all those behaviors that limit rights, but that are under ideological subsistence, justify and defend them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this may be a lot of things, but at no time is this liberalism, because liberals are that extraordinary exception that puts freedom ahead of your beliefs and your particular interests. That's being liberal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. With regard to what was established by the VOX Parliamentary Group, it is even more evident that its problem does not lie in an adaptation of the norm to the jurisprudence, but there is a total frontal rejection of abortion, which has been described on its website as the worst human rights attack taking place in today's society. Nor did any member of his Youth on an 8-TV television program, who said, "You want to solve a rape by murdering innocent people, you want to solve it." His latest proposal on abortion is to get abortion out of public health. That is, if you fail to convince the People's Party to abolish this rule, what you are going to promote is that you can only abort those women who have economic resources. Again, we leave the vulnerable in the worst position they can find. This is what you defend, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. In the Spanish Liberal Party, what we want is to work not only to win new rights, but to ensure the free exercise of the rights we have in our society. We believe it is essential to ensure the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy at liberty. It is not acceptable for women who decide to do so or for professionals working in this sector to be coerced by it. At no time will we allow us to question, attack, threaten or attack women in such a situation to be allowed in our country, because we are a democratic, advanced and modern country. That is why we are going to oppose the two amendments tabled in their entirety. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u112	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again we see the ultra right and the ultra right practicing, with amendments to the whole, their favorite sport: restricting and restricting rights, instead of extending them and guaranteeing them. But in spite of them, society advances and conquers them and strengthens them. It is the case of women's right to decide on their own body, to choose whether or not they want to be mothers and when they want to be mothers; a conquest of the feminist and democratic struggle. Now what is at stake is to ensure their effective exercise, in the face of the real difficulties that still persist in doing so. No woman should be coerced, threatened or coerced if she chooses to terminate the pregnancy, and public administrations should therefore act to protect that right. But not only that, the Government also has an obligation to ensure the possibility of interruptions in public health and in the reference centres corresponding to each individual. This is not the case today. These days I was able to know the case of Galician women who had to travel to Madrid to a private clinic and who others offered their solidarity to accompany them. This is not reasonable. We therefore argue that the rule needs to be amended. For the BNG it is clear that, when it comes to rights, there can be neither interference nor conscientious objection, but that genuinely recognized rights, such as free, safe and free abortion in public health, must be effectively guaranteed. Of course, we will vote against the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u115	Thank you, President. More Country-Greens Equo will vote against the two amendments as a whole. You talk a lot about freedom, but in this case you confuse freedom of expression with freedom of coercion and freedom of extortion, and that is serious. Ladies and gentlemen, after many years of inequality, violence, guardianship, we are neither for sermons nor for prayers before we exercise a right. We are not for your sermons, we are to be able to exercise our rights freely, and abortion has been a legal right for a decade, whether you like it or not, and therefore your exercise is protected by law. We don't come here to talk about whether or not women have the right to abort, because this has been resolved for years. What we have come to talk about here today is freedom to exercise it with complete certainty. This is what we came here to talk about. Systematic, aggressive, planned and scheduled day-to-day coercion in abortion clinics has to be considered a criminal activity, because it has nothing to do with freedom of expression. Moreover, we have to consider that there is a less intense but important harassment that has to do with the Public Administration. We already put forward a proposal at the beginning of October to guarantee this right in the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow ourselves to be pushed back to debates decades ago. What we have to worry about once and for all is that the women of our country, live where they live and have the resources they have, can...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u116	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u117	... freely exercise their right to abortion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u118	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u119	Thank you, President. The VOX and Popular Parliamentary Groups are presenting us with amendments to the whole of moral superiority, but today of numerical inferiority. They are amendments prior to future unconstitutional remedies if the Criminal Code ends up punishing a woman who intends to exercise her right to voluntary termination of pregnancy herein in a harassment or restriction. You illustrate these amendments at a stroke of euphemism. VOX says that the State must not put any obstacles in the way of the embarassment that comes to the abortion centres receiving more information. While the PP talks about peaceful participation in meetings. The cries, insults, threats or emotional blackmail of the victims of these women have been left in the background. This proposal defends women's rights, although VOX and PP deny it under the false pretension that harassers are well-intentioned citizens, all of them, who only exercise their freedom of ideological expression and assembly, and of creed, I would add, because they pray a lot; we have also seen it here. They insist on the pluralist constitutional principle based on tolerance and respect for discrepancy and difference. And where's the limit? From what insult? From how many threats or screams is freedom of expression no longer what these women must endure? And they say they protect women! What can we expect from two parties in the European Parliament who vote against or abstain when it comes to turning gender-based violence into a euro crime? What can we expect from those who do not support the cross-border treatment of macho violence within the European Union as it does with terrorism, trafficking or corruption? They lost the vote, and they're going to lose it again today. We come here to demand that the State inform and provide psychological assistance and that it accompany and provide material resources to those women who are forced to abort due to lack of means, and that it be with public attention. And don't ask God what the government has to do. This has been the institutional and supportive response to women who become involuntaryly pregnant and who have decided to terminate their pregnancy. They must be able to do so without pressure, without harassment, without Latvians who make soundtracks in one of the most difficult circumstances a woman can go through. You, who claim the principle of minimum intervention that must accompany criminal law, should also apply it to those who are going to harass at the door of the clinics. Leave them alone! The PP even cites the Ombudsman's recommendation to ensure the privacy of women attending clinics without prejudice to respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of other citizens. But he manipulates the appointment, because this without prejudice does not prevent the priority being to guarantee the privacy of these same women. Therefore, the Penal Code must set limits. Let us take an example from Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom or France, where the harassers of the abortionists and the medical staff attending them are already punished. Let us stop listening to ransoming Saints trying to prevent what the law does not prohibit. That is what we are asking here today, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u120	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u121	Good morning; in fact, almost good afternoon. First point. To the amendment to the whole of VOX, no. Second point. To the amendment to the whole PP, no. Third point. Are you kidding us? I mean, do you really come to this Parliament to do politics or come to insult our intelligence? With you comes a time when I don't even write my speeches, because why, if they don't use arguments? I read what they present, and thank you. There are curious things. The maximum exponent of punitive populism - prison for all; prison for the Okupas; prison for the independenceists; prison for the journalists; prison for the photographers - now goes and has reservations about including a specific act in the Penal Code. For God's sake, it must be the only thing you don't want in the Penal Code! And it must be that they do not want it because it is necessary to guarantee, precisely, the rights of women. But, of course, they are women's rights. Someone in the Chamber thought that VOX's deputy was praying. No, I wasn't praying. This was done the other day when he said that 'Genesis said...'. I was reading a poem by Victor Hugo today. Poor Victor Hugo! Just as I saw it in the future and that's why he later wrote Les Miserables, because miserable must be like to get into what kind of argumentation. But do you know what's going on? He was born in 1802 and died in 1885, and we have advanced a little bit. You guys are still anchored there. And when they come here with a speech about life, about children and about protecting them one thinks: as long as they are theirs and whites. Because children who aren't yours or whites want to drive them out, don't want to go to school and they want to turn them into garbage. [[Applauds]] Your deputies go to Raval, my neighborhood in Barcelona, and say he is a multicultural tern, but then you come to us to talk about rights, you come to us to talk about respect for life and you come to us to talk about freedom of expression. But if we exercise freedom of expression, of assembly and of other freedom, it seems to me to have something to do with ideological freedom, and they put us in prison. If Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez only made one demonstration and they have thrown themselves four years in prison. [[Applauds]] You are convinced that we are, in addition to the left, idiots. On the left we are and idiots some we are, like me, that I'm taking the trouble to answer them. Because what we should do is go up to this rostrum and say two things. First, we should apologize to the Spanish women, you and Catalan women, me, for not having been able to get them to abort in public clinics, in public hospitals, and therefore for being undetectable and for having placed them at the hands of these people. We have to apologize and tell them we're going to fix it. And the second thing we have to say to the women who vote is that they realize how they can finish their vote, that under that supposed reverence and the ability to talk about what concerns people are cutting us every day each of the rights we have achieved and for which we have sweated ink. Please, beyond flags, beyond freedoms, beyond all the lies they pour every day on the world in this Chamber, realize that they want us as in 1802, without vote, without sexual and reproductive rights, without voice and without body, because it belongs to them. We can't even allow it to be tolerated. We must talk to our women and tell them not to be mistaken, please, and if we do not do it well enough, we must repeat it, explain it and show that everything they say is fallacy aimed only at the powerful bosses over women. Since I have two minutes left, I will tell you that I would like you to start talking about real politics. Here no one pretends to have someone give up their convictions; no one. If you really don't give up those cases - you actually deny them; you say that in reality you don't give up - don't worry, because we won't have to apply the Penal Code; nothing happens. The bad news is, they know they're happening. Imagine that at the door of a pariatory clinic there was a group of people saying, 'What are you doing having a creature if climate change comes, unhappy? How will this creature stand? He's going to starve. How would you take it? Like an intrusion, isn't it? For it is exactly the same, though on the contrary and much more miserable, much worse, because no one aborts for pleasure - no one - and no one can impose on those women - no one - their way of seeing life - no one - and they are doing it at the door of the clinics. I'm done. Read don't read, that's already made clear, but I urge you all to watch on TV The maid's story, especially to the deputies of VOX. Maybe you started by believing that you were free and that you were in a party that was defending you, but you're going to end up dressed in red and hooded. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u123	Good morning. The streets are also ours, ladies and gentlemen, and transit through them when we return home or when we are going to perform a voluntary interruption of pregnancy cannot be a continuous exposure to violence, insecurity or aggression. We don't want to be brave, we want to be free. Freedom, which you name in a shitty way, because you talk about the freedom of the market, neoliberal freedom, the freedom to spend, but not to be in the public space with rights on equal terms. Because, yes, their amendments dispute freedom in all areas. Do you remember these concentrations during the hardest time of the pandemic, at the worst times, with their golf clubs and women working, with or without contract, with rights or in a very lax way, in their homes beating pots? Because they're even young men to manifest themselves. Do you remember claiming freedom with a megaphone from a convertible driven by a driver? Nor Berlanga, hey. You use the word freedom - and now I quote the writer Laura Casielles - as the freedom to take other lives ahead in order to fulfill your selfish and immediate desires. It's a freedom that doesn't matter to anyone else's freedom, it's that by nature it needs to tear it apart. Today's amendments range from their dispute over freedom, to their idea of freedom, such as the one that destroys women's freedom in public space and also in private space. There is an extreme right and a right that they want women to be at home, to drive us off the streets, to harass us when we exercise human rights on the streets, and hence their amendments to the totality that we are debating today. But it is that you not only attack the rights of today's women, but also violate the memory and democratic dignity of everyone by removing, as happens in Uviéu, street names like the one I carry today in my chest, Aurora de Albornoz. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the PP - I see you are very busy in other things right now - do you mind this academic, writer and wrestler bringing democracy to Spain? I mean, does an exile declared anti-Francoist and republican, responsible for studying almost for the first time the poetry of exile and bringing to Spain after Latin American poetry, making cultural bridge with Puerto Rico, with Chile, with Mexico? Do you mind Concepción Arenal or Gloria Fuertes, who were also erased from the capital of Asturias? Moreover, do you mind - I answer you yes - the word progress? Because they have also removed the name from Progreso Street, in an exercise of eloquence and sincerity very evident. Look, we are not going to allow your harassment of women today to exercise our rights, nor are we going to allow them to violate the Law on Democratic Memory of Asturias, and I hope that the State as a whole will soon too. Public space is also language. Language is an intervention, and you, you and the so-called adalides of freedom, have approved in the Region of Murcia an initiative to prohibit and fine the use of inclusive language in institutions and public administrations. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the Citizen Parliamentary Group]] [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]] Let's see, since they applaud, how's it going? If someone in Murcia uses language more precisely and says student, because it is the most accurate way to describe that reality, will he receive a fine? Seriously, this level of ridicule has nothing to do with the liberani is more useful than for its own interest, that of extending anti-politics. They flood with that disaffection, with that noise and with that tiredness to the citizenry and disguise as a cultural battle issues that are deeply material. It is material right to decide on our own bodies, it is material to exercise the right without coercion, without stigma. Harassment is neither aid nor prayer, it is violence and it only seeks to point and blame those who come to an unquestionably vulnerable situation. That harassment undermines the exercise of fundamental rights, and we talked about this weeks ago in the House, so your amendments as a whole are being cleared up quite quickly. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, your alternative text is to return to the text that this proposed law amends. That has already been discussed, this has already been lost, end of screen for you. [[Applauds]] On the alternative text proposed by the far right I will make a relevant mention. Not only do they base their attack on the principle of being able to exercise the rights of freedom by denying that there is harassment, but they also use it to attack a law that you have passed, Law 1/2004, against gender-based violence in the context of couples or ex-partners, with that proposal that you make to amend 172 of the Criminal Code by denying prevalence and structural violence against women. [[The lady]] They are not ashamed, and not only because of the negationism of the Machist violence - it is known that you do not comply with human rights, and as we already know I do not intend to stop at this - but also because you deceive people, who live in villages that are being left empty, who are in a precarious situation, who are exploited by this labor reform of some who defend others, people whose material conditions do not allow them to develop their lives or be happy. They deceive all these people because they believe that their problem is the feminists, that their problem is the migrant people, that their problem is the people we speak in other languages, that their problem is the LGBTI people. They also make them believe that worrying about some things means that we stop worrying about others, as if we couldn't walk and chew gum at the same time or as if we had to subordinate the rights and freedoms of half the population to not knowing very well what. They have no shame, because it is a lie, because while they point out some and deceive others, they pass the neoliberal apisonator. And then you guys still get to go patriotic. It is important to dismantle these lies, and for that we are, too, but ladies and gentlemen, and I look at the democratic benches and benches that know that we are defending human rights and that they do not seek amendments to all of them, the best way to do this is to move forward in public policies that guarantee rights, in budgets that develop them, in laws that also recognize new rights. Let's talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about it. Let's keep quiet about social justice policies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u125	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000076 to 110/000078. They have asked three parliamentary groups to intervene, as you know, for a three-minute time and from the seat. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia In Comú, Mr Pisarello Prados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u126	Thank you, President. I take the floor simply to denounce the blatant way in which the extreme right once again consents to the exercise of violence against the rights of working people, in this case especially of women, because they say that labour rights are an obstacle to the freedom of companies in order to be able to hire with those who profit them and under the conditions that profit them. But it has to be said that this is not the case, that this is not really freedom, but it is a white paper to discriminate, to precarious, to release abuse and violence from the private power in labour relations. This is not freedom, it is giving companies the role of new feudal masters, as in the Middle Ages, or conceiving companies as a despotic space, as in Nazi labour law, with a führer at the head to which workers must submit and silence. And labor rights have, precisely, the opposite meaning, laying limits on the despotism of private power to ensure the citizens' freedoms of working people. That is the sense of guaranteeing rights to decent working conditions, to non-exhaustive working days, to family reconciliation; to ensuring that workers are able to perform their work free of violence, physical violence, psychological violence, sexual violence. But that to the extreme right matters a curse, because what I would prefer is to have a system of feudal labor relations where the working people are meat of exploitation. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, there are hundreds of complaints of harassment, of harassment against women hotel workers, against domestic workers, against riders, against researchers in the world of science, as journalist Angela Bernardo has just denounced. Every day there are hundreds of people who are afraid to protest because they can be fired or because they may not promote their jobs. The only way for these women workers to feel free and secure is for them to be given rights to report abuses and to organize themselves. That's what VOX doesn't want, because they come here to release a chatter about their battle against the global oligarchies, but the truth is they haven't defended a single measure to protect working people. They do not want the Kellys, nor do they want the workers of the Huelva strawberry, nor do they want the researchers, nor do they want thousands of women who telework in their home while caring for their children, while cooking or while putting washing machines have rights and can organize themselves, because, if they did, they would have better labor agreements, win wages and gain freedom. That is why it is our duty to come here today and tell them that, even though they do, we are not going to be silent and we are going to denounce that extreme right which denies labour rights are the morbid and morbid expression of senile capitalism which is not going to prevail, because it is the great enemy of freedom and equality of humanity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u127	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take the floor on behalf of my parliamentary group to announce, as we did in the Commission, that we will vote in favour of each of the three conventions, mainly because the first two represent progress in workers' rights. And I am going to refer, in particular, to the third, which has to do with the Spanish-speaking fisheries agreement. I have already stated in the Commission, and I say this again here today, that we are glad that this agreement has finally been signed which basically and fundamentally solves the problems of Galician and Andalusian fishermen. Regrettably, for three years of leaving this government, of work defending the general interest, which should prevail, we have simply seen ourselves in a situation where Portugal had more advantages when it came to fishing than Spain, precisely because of the lack of this agreement. One goes on to ask how simple issues, such as the signing of conventions such as this take three years and how this Government and the groups supporting the Government are so easy to do things that are complicated and difficult. Yesterday, we had President Sánchez back up some accounts, saying that they were the best accounts in all history, and today we see how Europe cuts the forecasts of this government nothing more and nothing less than 30%. Today we have also learned, ladies and gentlemen, after the famous social shield, that this government is thinking of cutting pensions. That is, with how difficult it is, for example, to get some prisoners out of prison because they have been convicted by the Supreme Court, this Government gets it, and the defense of the general interest, which is what should prevail, simply park it. One has the feeling that this Government, and especially the groups that support the Government, are much more interested in defending the chair of La Moncloa of the President of the Government than in defending the general interest. I would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that there is another problem, the declaration of nullity of the Treaty on European Union and Morocco, which places Galician fishermen, canarian fishers and Andalusian fishermen in a complicated and difficult position. More than 400 families, ladies and gentlemen, currently have problems that are compounded by the existence of COVID-19, which are compounded by this magnificent foreign action of this Government, which allowed Gali to enter and has caused fishermen to be afraid to go to Moroccan territorial waters so that they do not stop them. So, gentlemen of the government and gentlemen who support the government, it is high time they devoted themselves to the general interest, to the defense of the things that really matter and stop, once and for all, applying only policies to keep Sánchez in La Moncloa. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. Does the VOX Group wish to speak on this point? [[Consent]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I see this point applies to everything, because it does not matter about pensions that things have nothing to do with foreigners, I take the opportunity to comment, as we are here, that today Brussels has cut Spain's forecast for 2021 to 4.6%. As this government has been telling us for several months that we are going to grow more than 6%, I would like to remind you that it is not that we are going to grow more than 6% or 5.5, but 4.6 %, the most anemic growth in Europe, not in Europe, but in the West where the gross domestic product has fallen most, 10.8 %. All this shows is that we are in the hands of genuine inexperienced people, people who are only capable of doing harm because they have not built anything in suvidity, who give grandiose speeches and who speak of Nazism which, by the way, is a form of national socialism, or of fascism, founded by the founder of the Communist Party of Italy. [[Applauds]] They are in a pseudo-academic world - and I am saying it because there is nothing academic about it - because they completely ignore history, they completely ignore the economic fate of the twentieth century, but they give masterful lessons. Look, take a little more of what the Spanish are going through, deser the country that has the lowest growth in Europe, the country that has decreased the most in 2020. We're going to lose not three economic years of our lives, but four. When the legislature of this government is over, we will be worse than when we start, so that all the adalides of progressiveism that begin to apply a little more so that Spain will progress, but forward, not backward as we are now. We have fallen, I insist, by 10.8% into the hands of these geniuses. Let us remember, it is the country where the worst is happening the Spanish families, the country with the most unemployment, the country where inflation is rising the most and, I insist, as we remain in the hands of these irresponsible comes the stagnation, the economic stagnation with inflation. And all of this has nothing to do with the point we're talking about, but as everyone here talks about theirs, for I take advantage of this kind reminder. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u131	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, all the speakers who have spoken before you have referred to the issues related to the conventions, the first convention on the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work, done at Geneva on 21 June 2019. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Prieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u132	Thank you, Madam President. They do not refer to international conventions because they cannot explain their refusal to defend the extension of workers' rights, as we are bringing to this House today. Because it's true that the VOX Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u133	Wait a minute, Mr. Gutierrez, because the megaphony isn't going well. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u134	Thank you, President. He said that the VOX Parliamentary Group does not talk about international conventions because it cannot explain its opposition precisely to extending workers' rights through these conventions that we bring to this House today. Because it is true that we are going to support the three conventions, first, because we believe in multilateralism. There are some who criticize globalism, but they do not realize that the unfair consequences of globalisation are precisely fought through agreements like this. Regulation and agreements are precisely the tools we have for humble people to shorten privileges and fight against inequalities that hit the disadvantaged. And that's why we believe in these international conventions. First, because we believe in internationalism, we believe in regulation, we believe in decent and safe work, in the best conditions of workers at home or in the fight against violence and harassment at work, forcing us inside and making them more universal outside. Because it is true that only by universalizing rights - as we do through the International Labour Organization - we make markets more just and globalization more social. And also because we believe in defending the general interests of the country as, for example, what we bring today with the fisheries agreement with Portugal. Because we also believe that trade agreements can bring precisely broad benefits to strategic economic sectors such as fisheries in certain regions of our country. But what you cannot hide is that, despite that bath of modernity that you want to give in some of your statements, in some of your contributions, they represent the oldest values, the oldest right, which are the values of selfishness, privileges and inequality. And that is why you are against the International Labour Organization, because you are against the United Nations, to which you have retweeted that it is a dangerous and extremist leftist organization. That is why you are against many judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, because you do not believe in multilateralism or international legality. And that's why they don't talk about what they have to talk about, because they're not able to defend their political positions. You are talking today about cutting the growth forecasts of the European Union, but what you can never justify is that we have gone to the European Union not to bring black men to cut the rights of workers or pensioners, as the right-wing in this country did in the previous economic crisis. [[rumors]] We have gone to the European Union to ask for aid, to ask for subsidies, precisely, to rescue people through the ERTE, through the social shield, through the minimum living income. Because we don't choose the crises that hit us, what we choose is the way out of them. And you are going to Europe to bring black men and scissors, and the socialists are going to Europe to bring help to get people out of the hole, to reduce inequality, and to bring more opportunities to this country.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u136	With better or worse growth forecasts, what we can proudly say is that this socialist government is not going to shake its hand to make us all come out of this economic crisis more just, with more equality, the opposite of what you did. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u138	We turn to the point concerning committee opinions on legislative initiatives, in particular on the draft organic law on combating doping in sport. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly and from the seat, I want to say that the unanimity with which the law was adopted is quite significant from what the groups think about the need to combat doping in sport, and it has been a rather important example to agree on basic issues, such as the issue of health and sport, which could be an example for many other issues. I just want to say that my group withdrew the only amendment that I had tabled, because we reached a compromise on the part of the Socialist Group and the Basque Group so that that amendment could be withdrawn. Why? Because, without including it in the law, the Government undertook to consider what we were asking for: that the anti-doping entities in the autonomous sphere be recognized at the international level, and that the Spanish Government is not an obstacle to the efforts made for such recognition. In turn, not only that they are also recognised, but also so that autonomous entities can effectively access and use the tool or platform that such an international entity has for the universal management of anti-doping programmes. That is the compromise, we hope that the answer and the agreement will be mutual and that the word given will be fulfilled. For my part, nothing more. I hope that what has been achieved with this law will serve as an example for many more. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u141	Thank you, President. We will support this organic law against doping in sport. With this rule, we commit ourselves to international regulatory commitments and improve our domestic anti-doping legislation. There are facts that I want to highlight in the processing of this law. One, the good atmosphere in the Commission, the fact that virtually all parties have expressed their support in the Commission for the opinion, which came out with a very large majority. Nobody likes cheaters because they pervert competition, because sport is the synthesis of many values. After a sporting competition, what is there is sacrifice, constancy and determination. Sportsmen are also an example for many children, but also for many adults. You just have to see what they pay more attention to, whether to us or to a sports competition. Doping perverts all this and pollutes the essence of sport. Moving forward in this area was fundamental. The broad consensus with which this organic law is emerging must therefore be welcomed. In addition, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has managed to incorporate amendments that improve fundamental aspects such as, for example, funding. In order for these rules not to be a toast to the sun, it was important to provide them with funding, and there have been two of the amendments that we have managed to adopt. One of the proudest questions is that we have managed to extend the sleep hours of those who are going to pass a check, so that between eleven and six someone cannot pass a check, except that by specific subjects or by the demand of the time or the sport activity concerned this has to be varied. We opposed amendments which, surprisingly, sought to establish territorial criteria in this area; narcissism and the difference also in sport. There were those who wanted, for example, to restrict the freedom of choice of analysis laboratories on the basis of territorial quotas. Anyway, the usual. And on the proposals, I would like to say that this does not have to be left alone here; we have to support sport in other areas, and I wanted to ask you for support for amendments that we from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group put forward in the State's General Estimates to maintain and incorporate, as a priority activity of sponsorship, high-performance centres, which know that many of them are under-funded. We have asked to declare the 2022-2023 season of the Iberdrola Women's Football League as an event of exceptional public interest. We have called for an increase in the budget for high-performance centres; apart from giving tax incentives to sponsorship, for special attention to be given to them with a specific focus on the new Olympic disciplines. Look what has happened with the climb and Alberto Ginés; we have a champion of climb who has real problems in exercising and training in this new Olympic discipline. We have also tabled amendments to recover sports promotion programmes for people in situations of social vulnerability. In another area such as consumption, it has been seen that it is especially vulnerable children who have the most difficulty in accessing sport, and who then suffer higher rates of obesity, and we have also introduced a law that banishes the hatred of sport. We must banish the cheaters, we must banish the doping, but we also want hatred to be banished; hatred for identity or degenerate expression, hatred for ideology, hatred for race or origin, and hatred - which also exists - of State institutions or organs, State symbols or emblems, which are also subjected to outrage and hatred. Hate in any of these manifestations should not be included in sport, whether homophobic, racist or nationalist, which are three major sources of hatred, some of which are classic. And if you can't help it, do it in the privacy of your home and don't bother sports, don't get dirty. Thanks to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups. I think we've done a good job. Thanks to the spokesman of the Socialist Group, who worked hard and made an effort to incorporate the amendments of the other groups. Thank you very much to the Commission, Mr Astarloa, who has made fundamental contributions to this rule, as has been customary in it; this Commission would not be the same without Mr Astarloa. Thanks to the President of the Commission, who also promotes the good environment in which it develops. And I conclude this speech by welcoming the fact that we have reached such a broad consensus and that this goal unites us. Let us see if it sets an example in other matters that we are dealing with in this House. And in order for him to choose and not spoil the tone of this intervention, I had thought of talking about doping in politics, but I'm not going to spoil it and we're going to leave it for another day. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u142	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alvarez i García has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating in today's plenary a very necessary anti-doping law in sport, and I would also like to thank all the spokespersons who have made it possible for us to bring this law here today, especially since we have one thing in mind: this state has already been splashed several times by doping in sport, and I believe that it is something that needs to be eradicated on its own. We want to strongly believe that this law will help to have a more comprehensive and rigorous control over the testing of athletes in different sports disciplines and their subsequent analysis. Despite being a necessary law and worked by all the groups in this House, we believe that a law with so much significance for the world of sport should have worked with much more time and dedication, than not going now fast and running because if the wolf does not come to sanction Spain. From here, in any case, we believe that the tireless and professional work of the Anti-Doping Laboratory of Catalonia, recognized for its great management and one of the pioneers of the biological passport, must be valued. We therefore hope that the Government will respect the agreements reached so that in the coming years, with this law, we can really manage it well and that its actors are the most efficient and professional. I was also commenting that this law has gone a long way. The deadlines have made you work against clockwork and that can never be really good for a law like this. That is why we are already working on the next one, five years from now, and being very attentive to it from now on for the improvement of this law. That is why I refer to the other groups and invite them to work in it together with us. I repeat, it has been a long time to pass this law, and it would be very good if in other respects, no less important in the world of sport, too, we were in such a hurry as, for example, in the law of sport, or in the fight against inequality between men and women in sport, that I think that must be taken very seriously into account and must be very important. I want to emphasize this because what cannot be done is that in a Spanish sports circuit you want to encourage participation with bonuses to players and not players. Why? Because men compete better or because some believe men are better? The answer is clearly no. The answer is that historical inequality is that of always and still exists and must be fought against it. But the question is, would all members of this House say no? That's the big question. Ladies and gentlemen, this House, as you well know, is a mirror for many citizens in this state and, unfortunately, we have often had to witness and hear disrespectful and repeated insults. Because calling a Member a witch or insulting or disapproving colleagues for the mere fact that they were born on another continent is a real shame, and it is something that should not be allowed here precisely because it is - in theory - the people we are here, reference for many citizens. Because those who insult and disrespect here are the same ones who run large companies and multinationals that subsidize invest in tournaments, competitions and sporting events, ergo, who will make it easier to participate or compete? Who are they going to provide better training or facility schedules to? It is clear that, unfortunately, sportsmen's wings, no. Some here should be concerned just about working to end all inequalities once and for all, not only in sport, but also in society at large, rather than giving so much importance to, for example, false police allegations to expel a democratically elected deputy to the polls. That would have to focus less and more on the fight against inequalities. So, from here on, I take the opportunity to demand that we start working already, truly, without positions, in the fight against inequality between men and women in sport and in all areas of our society. Failure to do so would be a grave mistake and enormous irresponsibility on the part of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u143	Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u144	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am grateful for the willingness of all political groups to reach the agreements that have facilitated the much-needed processing of this law, and for the contributions that have been made, because we have certainly improved the law among all of us. Sport in recent decades has taken on an international dimension, with the consequent creation of international anti-doping agencies and standards, for their prevention, detection and persecution. In 2005 Spain signed the International Convention against Doping in Unesco Sport, committing itself to actively fight for health and clean play in Spanish sport. As the main anti-doping agency in 1999, the World Anti-doping Agency is established, which acts by coordinating and monitoring efforts against doping in sport at the global level. With the entry into force, on 1 January 2021, of a new World Anti-Doping Code, we are obliged to incorporate changes in Law 3/2013 of 20 June to accommodate it. As your ladies and gentlemen know, this law collects and adapts the necessary modifications to avoid sanctions and that our athletes can go out and compete international competitions. I am convinced that it will come out with the favourable vote of the whole House, because it is a necessary and urgent law. But when we talk about doping, we don't just talk about clean play, we're also talking about health, about safeguarding the health of our athletes. Drugs not only cause negative consequences in the body, circular problems, hypertension and cardiovascular problems, but also neurological problems: sleep disorders, mood and personality changes. To help in this struggle the biological passport is the best tool we have to deal with sports doping practices, increasingly sophisticated and difficult to detect. For citizens to understand this: the biological passport collects the physiological parameters of the athletes, through blood and urine analysis, records the haematological and endocrine modules, and to this data is applied an algorithm that determines what the profile will be. Thus, a range of values is set between which controls should be moved. Here lies the main advantage of this tool: variations indicate doping, as normal values are exceeded. While conventional tests only detect substances that are not allowed, the passport discovers the effects that cause them and makes it possible to observe the changes that occur in the body. According to Aepsad on its website, the accuracy is almost infallible: 99,99 % in blood doping. But sport is also a way of claiming equality, and doping generates inequality. When talking about sport we must also be thinking about education, because it is a prolific field for development, transmission and promotion of values such as cooperation and healthy competitiveness, and a means to combat racism, machismo and homophobia. Hence the importance of this law, the importance that in all instances we are involved in the fight against what is becoming a scourge, and all in favour of clean play. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. The anti-doping law is a text of great importance and has an organic character, and it is an obligation that we must fulfil not only with the citizens of our country, with the Spanish citizens, but also with those of the international community. Everyone here assumes, in different ways, the importance of combating the use of toxic substances that enhance the performance of athletes but cause harm to their health. These are practices that have ended up undermining the prestige of different countries in the past, including our own, and we must prevent it from being repeated through this legislation. I think what Mr Díaz was going to say about political doping will have to be said by me. It is ironic to see the development of a law against doping of a government that is doped by the systematic manipulation of CIS data, that is doped by the cynical manipulation of unemployment data, or that is doped by the huge customer network of chiringuitos and water millions of public euros in order to be able to use them electorally. [[Applauds]] Let us hope that at least in sport they show greater respect for the rules of what they show in all other fields, gentlemen of the Government. Spain joined the World Anti-Doping Agency several years ago, and, as several of the people who preceded me have pointed out, this law involves updating a rule that has already occurred in previous times during the People's Party Government. At that time we already followed the guidelines of the World Anti-Doping Agency in the elaboration of this standard, but it was done with a delay that is not going to happen on this occasion, which is going to avoid a contempt for Spain, as occurred in the past. For that reason, and in order to bring forward an anti-doping law with Podemos in the government, I think we should all congratulate you, Mr Soto Burillo, for real. [[Applauds]] We are therefore committed to implementing a text that 90% is already given by the World Anti-Doping Agency, and if it were not approved in its current form, our athletes and our federations would be subject to sanctions, including vetoes to participate in international competitions. Avoiding this fact and the reputational risk for Spain is what has guided our interventions throughout the processing of this law. The show of responsibility on the part of all the members of the Committee on Culture and Sport is commendable, so it is also something for which Mr Zamarrón should be congratulated. We have all set aside part of our proposals and part of the work that we had to do to get there in time and that our country was not sanctioned. We are all clear that studying and processing this law has been too short a time, because we have all received collectives from sportsmen and federations and we have spoken with doctors and other people to draw up an appropriate text, although, unfortunately, to a large extent, that preparation has not been used, it has not been possible to put into effect. There are differences of application in the rules that make doping positive in some sports and other sports not considered to be doping positive in certain cases, and we consider that in a general rule such as the one we are approving here such things should have been polished and worked out, because, moreover, anti-doping laws, unfortunately, give rise to dysfunctions on many occasions. Or does it make any sense that there are different rules in the same sport? Given that you apply differences between equals on such serious issues as the Integral Law on Gender Violence - I did not intend to quote it, but since you brought it here a moment ago, I do - and that this barbarity in the same field of play seems acceptable, we have to make it very clear to you that to us, to VOX, that kind of differences seem to us to be an absolute barbarity. Prime Minister Winston Churchill said democracy is the political system in which, when someone called the street door at six in the morning, it is known to be the milkman. In Spain for a long time at three, at four, at five in the morning could be people of the Anti-Doping Agency. This is an anomaly in our democratic system that is corrected by this law, except for very justified reasons that we all understand. Therefore, this kind of harassment will not occur in sportsmen's residences between eleven o'clock in the evening and seven o'clock in the morning. This law is much better than the previous one in this respect, and I do not understand how this was allowed in the past, I do not understand how abuses like these are allowed against the rights of the Spaniards. VOX always works and will work for the common good, and for this it is not necessary to call us to negotiate or wait for any agreement. If it is good for Spain and for the Spaniards, VOX will support it without tacticism and without taking into account the many barbarities that have directed us. For this reason, at this point only VOX remains. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ramirez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Merino Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u148	Thank you very much. Good morning. The truth is, I have to start a little different than I thought. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the presentation of an organic bill that will be adopted unanimously, and I do not know you, but it would have seemed logical to me that the presentation of the bill would have been made by the minister of the branch, would it not? Where are you, Mr. Iceta? How is it possible that the competent branch minister does not come to present an organic law, fundamental to the image of the country in international sport, to the Congress of Deputies? [[Applauds]] Someone might think he had a schedule. But I have just checked the minister's agenda: at one, a cultural view, and at five, a meeting. Where's Mr. Iceta at three and five in the afternoon? I guess we can all assume that. But it's just, like I say, he should be here. For those who have not followed the process, it turns out that we have had to sprint the entire Commission to bring this organic bill here today. In fact, the House Bureau had to adopt it unanimously yesterday at 8:30 in the morning to include it as a new item on the agenda. And Minister Iceta doesn't come to introduce him. It seems to me a lack of respect not only for the General Courts, but for all Spanish sports. [[Applauds]] Then Minister Iceta complains why the athletes of this country do not validate him as minister of the branch. For these things! It's a law that's going to come out unanimously and has all the parabians, and they don't even show interest in coming to introduce it. I find it regrettable and not good, Mr Soto - pass it on - for all the work we have done. Of course, it causes me a terrible discomfort, because that sprint that we have all done absolutely comes for something, so that you will lose it, although here, of course, it has passed over. The World Anti-Doping Code 2021 was adopted on 1 January, and all States had an obligation to have state legislation adapted to that code, which was approved by the World Anti-Doping Agency the following day, and that was the case every six years since 2003: it happened that year, in 2009, in 2015, in 2021 and will pass in 2027. Last year, the former Secretary of State for Sport, before her cessation, was denying us, because she warned us that a consensus had to be reached; that was then, in October 2020. When do you think this organic bill has entered the General Courts? In June 2021, six months after having to be approved. Criticism? Even the Government itself says in its analysis of the regulatory impact that had to be adopted on the day following 1 January. Well, they have not approved it, they have argued for it, we have understood it and we wanted to support it working on this Commission, which did not begin until September to do the work to adapt this Organic Law of 2013 to the World Anti-Doping Code. And from mid-September to here we have been running with amendments and talking to the sector so that in the last week, four days, it will be unanimously adopted here today. The least it would have been to have had the minister here today! That being said, from the People's Parliamentary Group, as I said to you, we have introduced about forty amendments, of which the Socialist Group has approved ten, and we are satisfied. It could have been better, but we understand that, as a state and as a country, we have to give today an image of unity, an image of unanimity in the vote, because we are already late. In September we got a yellow card, but if today we do not pass this law unanimously, on 14 January we get a red card and we are expelled from all professional sports organizations and competitions. The People's Party will therefore vote in favour. We would have liked the biological passport to have had more regulation in the law itself, an extension, which would have been a special title or chapter of the law. With our amendment we have managed to include in the explanatory statement the definition and that it can be valid evidence in a court of law. We understand that this will be the case, but if it is not, we will continue to fight in the General Courts for it to be. They have also innovated with the creation of a new body, which is the anti-doping sanctioning committee. We initially opposed the removal of those functions from the Sports Administrative Court and the granting of a new sanctioning committee. We only ask that it be independent, impartial, transparent and composed of experts in sports law, medicine, etc. You assure us that this will be the case, and we will put the magnifying glass so that it is so, transparent, that your resolutions are public and the protection of sportsmen as well, that not only your health, but your procedural guarantees are guaranteed in the anti-doping agency and in the sanctioning committee. We are therefore satisfied with what the law has been like. Could it have gotten better? Yeah. Well, in six years you have to do another, and the People's Party in government will do it, you have no doubt. Could further amendments have been included? Yes, but in general, it must be said that the groups have done a good job and that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has accepted with good content what we understood to improve the law. We therefore agree, there is unanimity, the only one who is not here is the minister, but still the People's Party understands that this is going to be a good morning for sport, because we are going to give an image as a country, as a state, of unity, agreement and unanimity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Antón Cacho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. We need to see what some of their speeches have to twist in order to be able to vote in favour of the Government. [[Applauds]] Mr Merino, if you want a meeting with the minister, do not worry, you have already offered it, you are at your disposal at any time. As you well know, when one governs has to run, and we have put this point at the last moment, that is, not be so scrupulous and enjoy unanimity. We have to twist things all the time to hit and hit, as long as we're all in favor. The truth is, it's amazing. [[Applauds]] We are debating the organic law against doping today. With its approval, we ensure the harmonization of our legislation with global standards for the fight against doping and we also comply with our international commitments, which we validated more than three decades ago. I would like to start - and this can come very well for you, Mr Merino - by making a little memory, because about four years ago we were discussing in this very room the amendment of the Anti-Doping Act 2013. Do you know how it was done that time? It was done through a royal decree-law, and he did have to come and explain it to the minister himself, but because he came through the back door. And do you know what happened at that time, Mr. Merino? They declared us non-compliant, and our lab was out and they didn't recognize it internationally. That sanction caused a major earthquake in the sports sector and called into question the will of our country in the fight against doping. The responsibility of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and other opposition groups facilitated its validation as a royal decree-law, and we do not treat it as a bill to minimize the reputational damage to our federations and our athletes. On this occasion, the amendment to the World Anti-Doping Code in force since January 2021 comes to Parliament as a bill. And on this point, I would like to thank the work and cooperation of all the parliamentary groups without bleakness. Both in the meetings held with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport and in the submission of amendments themselves, and in the negotiation of the transactions, the attitude of the spokespersons has always been constructive and responsible. This has allowed us - running, yes, because we have to run - to bring it to this plenary today, with the unanimous vote of the entire Committee on Culture and Sport. Really, thank you all very much, and let us rejoice in this unanimity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against doping in order to be effective must be addressed globally. That is why Spain must comply with its international commitments and legislation, adapting it to the global anti-doping codes, which are adapted every six years. In this way we will guarantee the two priority objectives of any law: the first and most important, the protection of the health of athletes. Why? Because doping is moving forward and we have to protect them. And, on the other hand, ensure that throughout the world it develops under the same conditions in all competitions. I would like to highlight some of the new developments in this law. From now on the procedures, as Mr Merino has said, will be resolved by a new impartial and independent anti-doping sanctioning committee within the agency and will exercise the sanctioning powers. Sports and health skills pass to the Higher Sports Council and cease to be attributed to the agency, in order to devote exclusively to the fight against doping. It favours inspectorate action, incorporating for the first time obligations on anti-doping programmes and plans. As far as the sanctioning field is concerned, there are a number of new developments, and the bonus is that there are three levels of athletes: one with an international licence, the other with a national licence and the other with an amateur licence. Why? Because the same punishments cannot be applied to people who have different benefits for the practice of that sport. Secondly, a new type of substance is defined, the so-called abuse substances, and includes cocaine, heroin, ecstasy and THC, as well as the sanctions associated with their consumption. The figure of protected persons is incorporated, and I think it is one of the most important advances, because we protect minors and those without legal capacity. These have an adapted sanctioning regime, smaller, not so aggressive, but at the same time we increase the sanctions for people who encourage them to use doping substances or encourage them to traffic with them. New types of infringements are included, which also protect those involved in the fight against doping. With this law we put in place an effective and avant-garde tool in the fight against doping, but this does not end here. The agency, and in particular Mr Terreros, whom I would like to thank for his work, must continue to work proactively, as he has done in recent years. The Spanish agency has been one of those that have made the most contributions to the different drafts approved in the last five years. Let us use that dialogue to move the proposals we have heard today. Let us work for six years, keep the meetings we need with the agency, listen to the athletes and be able to not only debate this for two hours in this plenary, so that we work from now on on on the following amendment, which we all know will come. I do not want to forget the important role that education and prevention play in this matter. In this sense, we know that controls and actions are not enough. We encourage the agency to continue working for education and prevention as the best tools to have a clean sport and offer athletes the tools to make the right decisions at every moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope and hope that the adoption of this law, I believe unanimously, marks the legislative path that remains for us to go through in this legislature. We have before us the new law of sport, the law of professions, which must have as much consensus as possible. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we will do everything in our power to do so. I do not want to end without reiterating the thanks to all the sports spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups, and in particular to Mr Astarloa, who has guided us effectively in this rapid inclusion of this point in the plenary, and finally to two colleagues from my parliamentary group, Fuensanta and Juan Luis: I am convinced that without your work this point would not be discussed today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Antón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u152	We then turn to the items on the agenda relating to the proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman, the proposal for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court and the election of members of the Court of Auditors. The election, which shall require in all three cases a majority of at least three fifths of the votes of the members of the Chamber, i.e. 210 votes, shall be by the system laid down in Rule 204, in relation, where appropriate, to Rule 205 of the Rules of Procedure. The second secretary will read the proposal raised by the Joint Commission on Relations with the Ombudsman and the criteria of the Advisory Committee on Appointments on the suitability of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court and advisers of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u153	The Joint Commission on Relations with the Ombudsman at its meeting on 27 October 2021 agreed, by a majority and in compliance with the provisions of Article 2.3 of the Organic Law 3/1981 of 6 April of the Ombudsman, to extend to the plenary of both Houses the candidacy for the Ombudsman of the excellent Mr Angel Gabilondo Pujol, once his appearance before that Commission has been substantiated. On Tuesday, 2 November 2021, before the Advisory Committee on Appointments, the appearances of the candidates proposed for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court were held: don Enrique Arnaldo Alcubilla, dona Concepción Espejel Jorcera, dona Inmaculate Montalbán Huertas and don Juan Ramón Sáez Valcárcel, and for the election of six members of the Court of Auditors: dona Enriqueta Chicano Jávega, dona Isabel Fernández Torres, dona María DoloresGenaro Moya, don Diego Iñíguez Hernández, don José Manuel Otero Lastres and don Miguel Ángel Torres Morato, having mostly expressed the present representatives of the parliamentary groups their opinion in favour of the suitability of those to hold office.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a single five-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u155	Thank you, President. Despite the fact that some colleagues have left the House in order not to be present in what is going to happen now, we felt that it was important to intervene, because the debate that is taking place here today is of the utmost importance. The first thing we wanted to remember was the role that the Constitutional Court has played in the last fifteen years in Catalonia. The Constitutional Court has acted as a sort of third legislative chamber, monitoring everything that the Catalan Parliament approved. I bring you a small list, a small sample, because there are more than forty-seven remedies - some accepted and others not, although most of them do - for you to see the criterion of the High Court: Statute of Autonomy of 2006; decree law of ordinance d ́horaris comecials, judgment of 2015; Llei del Sindic de Greuges, appeal partially accepted in 2010; Decree llei d ́impost de dipòsit i identitats de credit, judgment of 2013, then sevolve to make a law and re-decreare nulla in 2015; Law on Effective Equality between Men and Women, judgment of 2016; Law 24/2015, the ILP of the PAH, which also partially suspend, or the Law of referendum of 2017. They see it: against taxes that make the rich pay more, against democratic rights and against everything that the Catalan Parliament legislates. The role of the Constitutional Court has been very complicated; in fact, it is a conservative court. Prosecutor Castresana wonders in an interview with Diario.es - I recommend it - why the Constitutional Court is dedicated to this, rather than making guaranteed interpretations of rights. The question is: Why does the Constitutional Court not make a guaranteed interpretation of the Spanish Amnesty Act of 1977 and continue to prevent investigations into the torture of Francoism? Why has the Constitutional Court not made a bridge between the 1931 Republican Constitution and the 1978 Constitution? The Constitutional Court, he said, had deteriorated in the eyes of the public. And this is just a problem for Cataluña? Not really. In 2021 it backs the permanent prison, in 2021 it backs the Law gag and in 2020 it backs the returns in hot. Against referendums, against the rights of migrants, against the rights to protest and against the rights of the poor. In fact, it is a problem because it exercises doctrine. Right now a news has just come out that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia is suing another Parliament Mass for disobedience, another. Remember, not many months ago we had some pardons from the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell; again, another processed table. The current role of the Constitutional Court is to go against fundamental democratic interests, and what is going to happen today is very serious, because what is going to happen today is that two profiles will be approved for judges of the Constitutional Court that are intolerable from a democratic perspective. When we talk about the democratic perspective, we talk about the role that the judiciary has to play, a role of containment of fascism. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, democracy has to be anti-fascist, so it happens in most European countries and in Spain it does not. The first is Mr Enrique Arnaldo, linked to summaries such as the Palma Arena - Jaume Matas, money laundering - and the case Lezo, linked to FAES, opposed to abortion, opposed to euthanasia and who refuses to say Generalitat de Catalunya, he calls it Generalidad, because he refuses to speak in Catalan. And the other is Concepción Espejel, who refused it in the Gürtel case and has a direct link with Mrs Cospedal, directly linked to the Kitchen case. What is going to happen in this House today is very serious: the Constitutional Court is going to be renewed with a pact of offices between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and tomorrow they fight in mourning. To agree on the high institutions of the State and to make the Spanish State continue to be a bunker for democratic rights, they do agree. Today's sad note is Podemos's affirmative vote. For us it is sad because today we are making a cycle end of the 15-M. Comrades and comrades, this we thought we weren't going to see in this House. Today the possibility of any change in Spain is dying. If this is the best government possible, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that independence is a matter of democratic survival.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u157	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The curtain opens and Arnaldo, Espejel, Sáez and Montalbán appear. What's the name of the play? It is called Pantomima in the Constitutional Court, of the consecrated authors Popular Party and Socialist Party Yahora also of United Podemos. They have again entered the practice of bipartisanism during these forty years. It's better to be a friend, it's better to have a carnet, it's better that you're one of ours than not working, having merit and ability. With what face are you, you and your children going to tell them that it is worth doing job interviews, making oppositions, striving or studying? Or is it more worth having a match card, or being friends with Pablo Casado, or being friends with Pedro Sánchez? [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] [[applause]] Mr Elorza - who is not here - changed my speech because in the Committee on Appointments he said that we had to vote with a tweezer on our noses and today he has had the gall of not voting for Mr Arnaldo, but that is not the problem. Pedro Sánchez said here the other day that he didn't like the candidates of the People's Party - we don't like any of them because we don't like the procedure by which they are elected, as friends of politicians and not because of their merit or capacity - but if you like them badly - it seems that you dislike the candidates of the People's Party - don't betray their ideas, don't vote for them, man. When you had your convention and you had your congress, you would throw your stuff at each other's heads, saying, "How bad are the reds of Sanchez!" [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] In the meantime, Mr. García Egea and Mr. Bolaños were saying, "You, whoever you want, I'm already staying with mine." [[Applauds]] This is what was going on. Do not be afraid to tell us that you have a sense of state, when in the midst of a pandemic you have not sat down to help the self-employed, entrepreneurs and families; when in the last ten years you have not sat down to talk about health, housing, depopulation, science, youth unemployment. No, they sit down to split their chairs, so there's not an empty chair left. Do not lecture us, you have no authority to teach absolutely no one. And when this is over, give the instructions to their palm trees to applaud in time and form, what they're going to do. [[Applauds]] The Presidency of Congress, after the announcement on television of which candidates were already to be elected, told us parliamentary groups to present candidates if we wanted to. Anyway, if it weren't for crying to laugh, because the theater becomes an opera joke. Mr Arnaldo has a lot of merits that the media have published throughout this week: Operation Lezo, breaking the incompatibilities by charging the Popular Party almost a million euros for a lot of years... By the way, he's got a great resume, you have to say it. But for justice as well as being impartial, it must appear, and none of the four candidates seems to be, we have all the doubts that they are not even. Of you and of you, accustomed to amigoism, to plugging and corrupting, we could expect it, but deustedes, who came here to reach the heavens from the people, people - they said - normal, people who came to regenerate democratic life, do not have a pass. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing out the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]] They've got to be ashamed of themselves. Never come up here again to give lessons to anyone about cleaning and regeneration, because today they would be asking for Arnaldo's resignation if he were already a member of the Constitutional Court. [[applause]] The merits of the candidates: Montalbán, who is a friend of Pilar Llop; the merit of Ramón Sáez, who is a friend of Enrique Santiago; the merit of Concepción Espejel, who is a friend of Enrique López, because they refuse you for the Gürtel unites a lot. In the Court of Auditors: Dolores Genaro, friend and there he goes; Margarita Mariscal de Gante no. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you are the crutch of Sanchez, of Podemos and of separatism. They're giving them all air, just by putting theirs on. It's a real shame. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u158	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u159	I'm done, President. They devalue institutions, they generate the disaffection of people. Really, is there such a place in the Constitutional Court? Why is it? Because of the judicial agenda they have? They never count on us. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u160	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u161	Today Congress smells like mildew, smells like obscenity, smells like scandal. That is why many Members have needed this clamp this morning to be able to vote. In Compromís we did not need this clamp, we voted with responsibility, with dignity. We have voted for decent, suitable candidates: Mr Gabilondo, Mr Sáez Valcárcel and Mrs Montalbán. We have voted for them, and that is precisely why we have not voted for a tainted candidate of partiality, reprehensible depractices, of dark relations and business, of indecency. Mr Arnaldo probably serves to do business, but it does not serve either to be in the Constitutional or to be in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very brief and also a very simple intervention, because it is an obvious intervention. There are few times that happens in this Congress, but in this speech it is only a matter of saying something that all of us here and all the people who have not dared to enter know: that today they are going to vote here candidates who are not suitable. And they are going to be voted by Members who know that they are not suitable, that they know that Espejel is not ideal and that they know for a fact - there is no one in this country who doubts it at this time - that Mr Enrique Arnaldo is less suitable and, therefore, he is not worthy to be appointed judge of the Constitutional Court, and yet he will be elected. I find it hard to believe that the People's Party does not have a better candidate, but the reality is that the People's Party does not affect it. If anyone wants to know what's going on in this House today, all they have to do is look at the distribution of faces, the calmness of faces on the right benches, and yet the long faces on the benches of government groups. A shameful vote is never a good vote; a vote that one is ashamed to defend, that one does not dare to defend, is never a good vote. Tell him who tells him and call him in a row who calls him in a row. A vote that gives shame is a good vote, and neither is it an example of responsibility to choose someone who stains the image of justice, the Constitutional Court and this Congress of Deputies. Giving reason to cynicism and discouragement is not an example of responsibility, because we must never forget that in cynicism and discouragement reactionaries always win. There may be someone telling us today that we are going to vote that not because we can afford it, but we are actually going to vote what you would like to vote for, that not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u164	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u165	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Junts per Catalunya has wanted to speak here at the plenary session of Congress to express our frontal rejection of this democratic fraud of the appointments of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors; our rejection of the names and procedure, which we have already denounced in the Commission last week. We will state this with the only option left to us, which is not to vote. What has been achieved by giving stability to this government? One, that the budgeted money does not arrive in Catalonia, as Pedro Sánchez acknowledged yesterday, and two, that today the members of the PSC and En Comú vote yes to the extreme right, vote yes to the extreme right continue to control the Spanish institutions with total impunity to pursue our leaders and citizens. As it is natural, Junts per Catalunya is not going to cooperate in supporting this government or the shameful office that is being voted on today. We don't give any credibility to the speeches of responsibility and tweezers in the nose. This rhetoric is more of the same: the ones always doing the usual. Gentlemen of the PSC, Mr. Elorza asked seventeen questions that highlighted Mr. Arnaldo's lack of suitability. Gentlemen of the PSC, I will ask you just one question: if this candidate is so bad, and he is, why are you going to vote for him? And I say the same thing to the gentlemen of En Comú, to Mr Asens. Mr Asens has spoken many times here of partiality and corruption in the judicial dome, and he set Mrs Concepción Espejel as an example, and now he is going to vote for her. Where's your consistency? Are you going to be complicit in this fraud? Ladies and gentlemen, Junts per Catalunya, the Independenceists, we are not here to protect two institutions, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court, which have persecuted us and denied our rights, to President CarmeForcadell last week. On the contrary, it seems perfect to us that the discrediting of State institutions is increasing and that this farce of today serves to make more evident the farce of the regime of 78. Even so, we denounce that this business that the two-party plumbers, Mr García Egea and Mr Bolaños, did in half an hour and at night is an abuse of rights, a constitutional fraud. I'm done. After today's vote, please, gentlemen of the PSC, gentlemen of En Comú, do not give the independenceists any lessons in constitutionalism, no lessons in the rule of law, because this which you are going to do here today is a shame for every Democrat, and you know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u166	Thank you, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u167	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We have here today a difficult vote; a difficult vote that emanates from an absolutely intolerable and absolutely unsustainable situation such as the anti-democratic and unconstitutional kidnapping - which we cannot ethically allow for a minute more - to which the People's Party has submitted to the constitutional bodies. Today we are going to vote on a four-judge agreement for the Constitutional Court that includes two people who, under no circumstances, should have been proposed by the People's Party. Yes, this is the tearing paradox of this agreement: while Mr Pablo Casado comes to this House and talks about depoliticizing the judiciary, he has deliberately included in the agreement two ethically questionable candidates and of whom we could implicitly say that they are leaders of the People's Party without a carnet. And yes, as leaders of the People's Party without a carnet come, sadly for this democracy, accompanied by the shadow of lack of independence, of partiality, when not of favoritism and benefit to the people themselves, or of corruption that always goes in the shadow of the People's Party. And I see that in this country there are countless jurists and conservative magistrates and magistrates who deserve absolutely our respect and who would deserve our support, but the PP has endeavoured, in part for paying favors, in part for deliberately soiling the institutions, to propose to two of the obviously less opportune ones. I will explain why we accept this agreement, but first I will make a preliminary consideration. [[Laughter from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] We were carrying... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u169	We're very used to your rudeness. I told him the other day and they keep going. [[Rumors]] We have been listening for months, if not years, in the media and in great public opinion that we must reach great agreements and that we must reach agreements with the People's Party. It draws attention to the fact that precisely in these media and in these spaces of currents of opinion the result of the agreement with the People's Party is now surprising. What were they expecting? It's hard, but it's real. Reaching agreements with a party that is entangled, practicing lawfare in state institutions, means they are going to propose candidates to defend lawfare. Reaching agreements with the People's Party, which is obviously linked to corruption, clearly means that there is no other, they have to propose candidates of this kind. [[Rumors]] The same people who ripped their clothes when our parliamentary group tabled a proposal to modify the mechanism of election of the General Council of the Judiciary, precisely in order not to depend on the People's Party, are now tearing their clothes for the consequences of that agreement. Do we and we think that the current methods of choosing constitutional bodies are desirable? Obviously not. Nor do we think that the electoral law is fair, but we obviously do not give up running for election. In the case before us today, it must be understood that there were only two options in this matter: an agreement, better or worse, of three-fifths of the House or continuing with the blockage of constitutional bodies. As long as the PP is unstoppable - this is important for everyone to understand - there are only two options: to agree with them knowing what they are or to allow them to continue with the kidnapping of institutions and turn them into an opposition in the shadow, and non-democratic, particularly this government. Bearing in mind that the People's Party and the members of VOX have lodged more than thirty appeals with the Constitution, bearing in mind that most of these appeals have been admitted to procedure and that these appeals seem to seek to kidnap the action of the Legislative and Executive branches, blocking rules such as the Child Protection Act, the Rider Act, the Education Act or the Euthanasia Act, I believe that the most important reaction that explains the meaning of the vote of our parliamentary group is to end this kidnapping, to offend the institutions and democracy of the deep State, still sadly controlled by the undemocratic springs of the right wing of this country. We were asked for an agreement and we could not allow the People's Party to continue the kidnapping of the institutions. And I also make it clear: if we and we had not been part of the agreement, independent, autonomous, honest, decent and technically untouchable public servants would not be included in this agreement today, which would never have been proposed by other parliamentary groups. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Our vote will never be a vote in favour of Mr Arnaldo or Mrs Espejel. Our vote is to end the kidnapping that the People's Party has subjected to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u170	Mr. Gómez-Kingdom, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u171	...constitutional organs and defend our democracy from those who only want to destabilize it. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground.- Several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Bravo!- Yes, you can! Yes, you can! Yes, you can!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u172	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u173	With the venom. Sad day, very sad, very much, and an insult to democracy, an insult to the slightest decency this last intervention of the spokesman of Podemos. [[Applauds]] More lies and carats cannot be displayed in a plenary or in a Parliament, in a bar, in a tavern or anywhere. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] A continuation of a bipartisan practice damaging the political system established in 1978, that is what you are leading today, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Chapter IX of the Constitution, when establishing the Constitutional Court in accordance with the kelsenian model, did not make the best possible choice for a constitutional review file of the laws. This is known, and it was doubtful then. It is frankly improved and some solution has been discussed, such as a special chamber of the Supreme Court. Of course, as long as its judges were appointed not by a General Council of the Judiciary that did so in a discretionary manner. However, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have done even worse if there is the instrument of control conceived in the 1978 text, with a totally politicised distribution of judges; judges who are usually elected on the basis of their political dependence on those who elect them, namely, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, distorting the system of constitutionality control of laws, which is the cornerstone of a democratic system. [[applause]] You are of the doctrine of Manuel Azaña. Yes, you, out of shared ignorance, out of the conviction of the socialists, out of the papalism of the People's Party. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Yes, doctors who share Azaña's assertion, when he said: I do not believe in judicial independence. [[Applauds]] You believe that, you believe that disbelief, that denial of democracy in a basic principle. As I said a year ago in an article in ABC MendizábalAllende, Azaña was sincere and consistent - of course it was - in the Constitutional Guarantee Court of the Second Republic, which you yearn for you do not know why and how little you know you yearn for it with contempt for truth and dignity. The Court vetoed the participation of judges from the judicial career and four years later, being head of the Azaña State, signed, signed, signed and sanctioned a decree of 13 June 1966, which subjected the Supreme Court to strict political control. Yes, you are of this doctrine, the deleterious of democracy, because you do not believe in democracy. [[Applauds]] You can let them down here saying how many times you want them to believe in it, but they don't believe it. You are epigons of Pio Baroja's dictum, when in 1902, in his youthful Way of perfection, he said: I doubt there is anything more stupid than being a Republican, unless it is socialist or democrat. For that is what you believe, that it is stupid to be socialist - people believe it - and that it is stupid to be democrat - it is believed by socialists and people -. [[Applauds]] This interpretation of the institution of the Constitutional Court by you is a shame and I now conclude by appealing to your dignity. I appeal to the dignity of the Members of the People's Party and the Socialist Party: break the voting discipline and vote against it, even if it is at risk of losing its seat. [[Applauds]] If you have dignity, vote against! And I appeal to the dignity of the proposed candidates: resign from being judges - all four - of the Constitutional Court, they can still do so. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo! Thank you!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u174	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Tirado Ochoa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement to give stability to the institutions of the State. The candidates represent the democratic consensus reached by the strengthened majority of this House and have all their legitimacy of origin. If you doubt democracy, you doubt this House. Legitimacy is conferred by the Constitution itself of all Spaniards. The House of People's Sovereignty, from which the powers of the State emanate, is currently making the most relevant appointments of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman. Political forces have an obligation and responsibility to preserve the reputation and quality of our institutions, and we must contribute to their normal functioning. I'm not going into any disqualifications, and look at there's been disqualifications. We cannot question the honour of the high institutions of the State, we must do politics with capital, with institutional respect and with the spirit of agreement of our Constitution, which we in the People's Group claim. [[Applauds]] To agree with what you think differently is important in democracy. They win the institutions and the common good if the agreement to frantism prevails. They win institutions and the common good if rigour, responsibility and rationality prevail over populism. Let us all act guided by the ethics of responsibility. Today we appoint professionals of recognized prestige. Their curricula, their careers, their publications, their research work, their conferences, their teaching and the thousands of trials held by them, taking into account exclusively legal criteria and exercising their jurisdiction impartially and independently, make them suitable candidates and give prestige to our institutions, to which they will serve. We must not despise or question in an unjustified and demagogic way, let alone with expressions that are disrespectful to parliamentary decorum, an act of democratic normality such as the one we are carrying out. [[Applauds]] We must bet on strong, strong and credible institutions. Institutional stability is good for Spain, and what is good for Spain will always be supported by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The People's Party, as a party of government, agrees with the agreements of state like those offered by our national president, Pablo Casado, always with a high eye and for the benefit of the general interest of Spain. We are a party with a sense of state and yet we are able to combine making a strong and solvent opposition with having institutional responsibility to reach agreements to fulfil the constitutional mandate. The People's Party is the political alternative and we have alternative policies, as we have shown by presenting more than two thousand amendments to ensure that all Spaniards and each and every one of the territories of Spain benefit. [[Applauds]] And since we are the alternative, we work in positive. Let's not just be critical, let's be helpful, let's be solutions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are working to strengthen democracy by resolving the appointments of constitutional bodies in accordance with the Constitution itself. An agreement that responds to the commitment to choose professionals of recognized prestige. Unlocking institutions is certainly good news. It is good for the Constitutional Court, good for the Court of Auditors and good for the Ombudsman, but it is basically good for the Spanish democratic system as a whole. That is why I want to tell you, and I am finalizing, that I wish the greatest of the right things to the people who are going to choose. I am sure that they will carry out their duties with complete loyalty and independence, with strictly legal criteria and at the service of the general interest of the citizens and of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, socialists, respect the separation of powers, comply with what Europe says and what the Constitution also says, that judges be elected by judges, and we can also reach agreement on the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u176	Mr. Tirado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u177	I'm done. With a sense of state, with measure, with rationality, without disqualifications like those that have been said today, being consistent with the parliamentary courtesy that today has been lacking with certain expressions, that among all of us have grandeur...,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u178	Mr. Tirado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u179	... generosity and that we among all give stability to the institutions of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Tirado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u181	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, to the hooligans who have appealed to dignity, I want to tell them that dignity is exercised from this atrium and from these seats, which they never do. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking another step forward in the partial restoration of democratic normality, amputated by blocking practices; with delay, yes, caused by the misexercise of the opposition function and for this reason I am sending you, gentlemen of the PP, to complete as soon as possible the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary - which is more than 1050 days late - without any further unjustified delay. [[Applauds]] Look, for my group, for the PSOE, not only is compliance with the Constitution obliged but it is necessary at every moment, all of it, without buts, no excuse for its non-compliance. Look, I said it last Tuesday and today I remember it, to agree on the very essence of democracy because our democracy is stronger if the agreement defeats the disagreement, our democracy is more robust if the pursuit of the common good prevails over the particular or party good and, ultimately, our democracy is healthier if disqualification and mud are marginalized. As Angel Gabilondo would say, the easy insult coincides with the difficult intelligence. Thus, when we come to this point, we believe that, despite all the shortcomings and deficits, today we must send a message to the citizens as a whole demanding the need for the normal functioning of the institutions and their mechanisms. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the ultra-right wolves are on the brink of democracy and do not hesitate to defend the institutions, let alone when the attacks come from those who are inside and enjoy their privileges articulate populist discourses to erode and narrow the pillars of our democracy. Those who do not believe in the collective values that underpin our democracy direct their attacks on institutions from within and from outside to weaken them, to make us weaker and more vulnerable, and to govern our fear and not freedom. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no fear in the pact. But I say to you, with the same constancy, that also in the covenant is reflected the very soul of the one who covenants, of how he covenants; also in the agreement our essence is stripped. And our group in this process is guided by the defense of collective interests against party interests, in defense of blocked institutions sine die; there are those who can choose and choose party and block interests, we choose unlocking and general interest. It is the responsibility of government over and above party interests. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, those who put the partisan interests before the opposition anticipate what interests they are going to put before the government. And yes, we certainly require the members of the highest judiciary in this country no ideological affinity, not, but exemplary conduct, legal value and impartiality in the exercise of honoring our Constitution, and our group has fulfilled its proposals, with each and every one of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is our main political covenant and is an example of the power of agreement and of the word. Its validity and vigor is because the progress of the society for which it was given is accompanied; and it is in this solidity and robustness of the system where the Constitutional Court is established as a fundamental pillar of it. The magistrates are called to apply the Constitution and interpret it; but, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is also a living norm, it is not a barainflexible; setting it up is to confuse defense with lock, it is to do a bad favor to the norm itself and to the desire of the constituent, because if nothing changes, if nothing is appropriate, if nothing is read in the light of new lights it petrifies and lets serve for that for which it was conceived. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate once again my group's commitment to the pact, to the agreement and to the normal functioning of the institutions, despite the sticks on the wheels, because it strengthens them and is a symptom of democratic health. Compliance with the Constitution obliges us all, and especially those political leaders who, in the first and last instance, must take care of it and not hide behind it by using it as a shield and as an excuse. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u183	Before making public the results of the votes, the fourth secretary will read the institutional declaration of support for La Palma.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u184	On September 19, 2021, a tremor, a roar and an explosion gave rise to the birth of that volcano located on the western slope of Old Summit that has changed the lives of all palm trees forever. From that day the lava burys stories, secrets, celebrations, houses, farms, ways of working... Since that day the island is not the same; neither is it that of its people or its businesses. Still impossible to fully assess the growing human catastrophe, the main economic sectors are beginning to bleed. To date, more than two thousand buildings, businesses, roads, schools, desalud centres, community centres and agricultural and livestock farms have been lost; industrial areas, entire neighbourhoods that formed a human community and the reference of generations of people in El Paso, Los Llanos de Aridane and Tazacorte. For many eyes, houses are just that, houses; for palm trees these houses are part of the history of their people, of their neighborhood; for palm trees their houses are that logbook that tells the fortunes and misfortunes of a stage of deficiencies, of emigration, of effort and work, and above all narrates the overcoming of the palm people. Similarly, a farm is not just a farm, it's work, it's tradition, it's culture, it's food and it's, among other things, entrepreneurship. Settling from those gathering places of the family, friends, the celebration of personal successes, where those who left have been veiled and dismissed. La Palma is not just an island, it is much more than a Biosphere Reserve, La Palma is tradition, neighborhood, development, core. Cores in which families live side by side, cores in which different generations coincide in the same schools, play in the same square and fall in love and start a new life. It is difficult to express what closing a door means by being aware that you may not open it anymore, it is difficult to express the agony of what looks at aerial photos daily without knowing if your home continues to resist that great black monster that manifests itself in the form of a lava tongue. But it's harder to look forward if they don't help you open a window. The volcano is taking everything; this is more than a normal catastrophe, it is of a dimension similar to the great catastrophes that we have unfortunately seen due to huge earthquakes, what happens is that thanks to our effective emergency system, fortunately, there are no victims. [[Haiti, for example]] If anything has made clear this tragedy is that Spanish society has felt as if in its flesh it is treating what is being suffered on that wonderful and small island of La Palma. Through donations, campaigns, deanonymous and well-known involvement, palm trees feel the warmth of citizens. Society has set an example and now it is up to the institutions, so this Congress of Deputies undertakes not to leave the palm trees alone, to understand how abnormal this situation is and not to allow them to fall into oblivion. This requires unity and loyalty with the palm trees: so that the neighbors who have lost everything can rebuild their lives, their homes, their neighborhoods; and so that those who have nowhere to shelter can opt for a quick option. So that their autonomous can remain at war and rise again. So that they don't have to leave as in times past off their island looking for another life other than the one the volcano took from them. So that the agricultural sector does not fall on the island, so that the areas of cultivation can be reestablished and with it the work of many. To boost the tourism sector and the development of the island. Palma needs not only citizen solidarity, but political height and commitment because no one can be left behind. For this reason, through this institutional declaration, the Congress of Deputies undertakes to provide solutions and to support the island of La Palma, its citizens and to resolve all the drawbacks that the fateful volcano has generated. Someday you will have to tell the stories today buried by the lava and you will have to talk about what all the memories that this volcano has not allowed to recover meant. In the meantime, we must continue to tell that there was a neighborhood called El Paraíso, another called Todoque and another, La Laguna; we must continue to tell what life was like in those schoolyards that are not there today or how the neighbors greeted each other when they coincided at the door of the health center. We have to keep telling how it is almost impossible for a palm tree not to have gone to a wedding, communion or baptism to the Association of Neighbors of Todoque; or how they played and danced isas in the Association of La Laguna. The commitment to reconstruction must be as firm as that of not forgetting, the social commitment as strong as politics and the entrepreneurial commitment as strong as emotional. For La Palma and its inhabitants, in the Congress of Deputies, on November 11, 2021. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the telematics vote on all the items on the agenda, I am announcing the outcome of the votes. Firstly, a motion for urgent questioning by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, about the unsustainable situation in which Renfe's neighbourhood service is located in Valencia. It was voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Plural Group, Mr Baldoví Roda. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 196 against, 100 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u187	Accordingly, the motion was adopted. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, ON THE SUBSIDY OF TAXES TO FAMILY AND SPANISH ENTERPRISES IN 2022. [[File number 173/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u188	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on its tax increases to Spanish families and companies in 2022. It has been voted on in its terms. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 151 against, 196 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u189	The motion was therefore rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES PROVIDED FOR TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO GUARANTEE ACCESS TO LIVE TO CITIZENS. [[File number 173/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u190	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures planned by the Government of Spain to ensure access to decent housing for citizens. It has been voted on in its terms. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 9 against, 195 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u191	The motion was therefore rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO ENSURE THE EXemplARITY OF YOUR MEMBERS. [[File number 173/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u192	Motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure the exemplaryness of its members. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 58 against, 194 abstentions, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u193	The motion was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u194	Royal Decree-Law 20/2021 of 5 October, adopting urgent support measures for the reparation of damage caused by volcanic eruptions and for the economic and social reconstruction of La Palma laisla. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 295 against, 1 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u195	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. Processing of the Royal Decree-Law as a bill by the urgency procedure. The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 150 against, 181 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u196	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 21/2021 OF 26 OCTOBER, PROMOTING SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES TO FRONT SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS. [[File number 130/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u197	Royal Decree-Law 21/2021 of 26 October, extending social protection measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 285 against, 11 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u198	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. Processing of the Royal Decree-Law as a bill by the urgency procedure. The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 160 against, 183 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u199	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 22/2021 OF 26 OCTOBER, adopting urgent measures for the organization in Spain of the twenty-fifth meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. [[File number 130/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u200	Royal Decree-Law 22/2021 of 26 October, adopting urgent measures for the organization in Spain of the XXIV meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 287 against, 1 abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u201	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. Processing of the Royal Decree-Law as a bill by the urgency procedure. The voting was as follows: 347 votes in favour, 63 against, 277 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u202	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u203	Amendment to the entire alternative text of the VOX Parliamentary Group to the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women attending clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 53 against, 295.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u204	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women attending clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 142 against, 205 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u205	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u206	Result of the joint vote on the opinions of the international conventions with dossier number 110/000076 and 110/000077. The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 284 against, 51 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u207	The opinions of the international conventions were therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT ON CONDITIONS FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE SPAIN AND PORTUGUESE FLOTS IN THE WATER OF BOTH COUNTRIES BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGUESE, DONE IN LUXEMBOURG ON 28 JUNE 2021. [[File number110/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u208	Opinion on the Agreement on conditions for the exercise of the activity of the Spanish and Portuguese fleets in the waters of the two countries between the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic, done at Luxembourg on 28 June 2021. The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 321 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u209	The opinion on an international convention was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u210	Opinion on the draft organic law on combating doping in sport. The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 346.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u211	The opinion was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u212	Result of the overall vote on the organic initiative. The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 345.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u213	Accordingly, the draft Organic Law on Combating Doping in Sport was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u214	With regard to the proposal for the appointment of the Ombudsman, the result of the vote was as follows. Votes cast, 249. Votes in favour of Mr Ángel Gabilondo Pujol, 240; blank votes, 6; null votes, 3. Therefore, having obtained at least a three-fifth majority of the members of the House, the proposal to appoint Mr Ángel Gabilondo Pujol as Ombudsman is approved, which will be communicated to the Senate to continue the procedure for his appointment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u215	With regard to the proposal for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 249; votes in favour of don Enrique Arnaldo Alcubilla, 232; votes in favour of dona Concepción Espejel Jorcera, 237; votes in favour of dona Inmaculate Montalbán Huertas, 240; votes in favour of don Juan Ramón Sáez Valcárcel, 240; blank votes, 8; null votes, 1. Therefore, having reached all the candidates proposed a number of votes greater than three fifths of the members of the Chamber, they have been elected as judges of the Constitutional Court don Enrique Arnaldo Alcubilla, dona Concepción Espejel Jorcera, dona InmaculateMontalbán Huertas and don Ramón Sáez Valcárcel. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, applause, stood up, saying: Yes, you can! Yes, you can! Yes, you can!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-11-CD211111.u216	In connection with the election of members of the Court of Auditors, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 249; votes in favour of Mrs Enriqueta Chicano Jávega, 239; votes in favour of Mrs Isabel Fernández Torres, 239; votes in favour of Mrs María Dolores Genaro Moya, 239; votes in favour of Mr Diego Íñiguez Hernández, 239; votes in favour of Mr José Manuel Otero Lastres, 238; votes in favour of Mr Miguel Ángel Torres Morato, 239; votes in favour, 10; null votes, none. Therefore, having reached all the candidates proposed a number of votes greater than three fifths of the members of the Chamber, they have been elected as advisers of the Tribunal de Contasdoña Enriqueta Chicano Jávega, doña Isabel Fernández Torres, doña María Dolores Genaro Moya, don Diego Íñiguez Hernández, don José Manuel Otero Lastres and don Miguel Ángel Torres Morato. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was four and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
