ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 25, corresponding to the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist, Organic Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to penalize harassment in women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u3	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] I have come to the clinic very nervous, because abortion is not easy, but for me the worst has been the harassment that I have suffered from men - I don't know who they are - who have lectured me, taught me pictures and told me that women die in here. I wanted to cry and go home. I went into the clinic with a hysteria attack that didn't happen to me until I talked to the clinic staff. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the testimony of a woman who goes to a health centre to perform a health service, a voluntary interruption of pregnancy. This is just one of more than three hundred examples of the study carried out in 2018 by ACAI. For those who do not know, ACAI is the Association of accredited clinics for the termination of pregnancy. This testimony is one of the many collected by this study that has made ACAI of women from different cities such as Malaga, Madrid Albacete and others. Ladies and gentlemen, according to this study, 89% of women felt harassed. Out of a total of 267, two hundred said they also felt threatened; harassed and threatened by exercising a right and receiving a health benefit from the public health service portfolio. According to the latest data - be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because this is addressed to us - more than 90% of women believe that they should receive public protection against harassment. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, women are asking us for help and we have to help them. We have to help them by supporting the consideration of this initiative. Today my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, tabled a bill to reform the Criminal Code and put an end to an intolerable situation of impunity. When a woman decides to voluntarily terminate her pregnancy under the terms provided for in the 2010 Act, she is exercising a regulated right in our legal system. The right to abortion is a sexual and reproductive health right in Spain. Sexual and reproductive rights are human rights; that is what the United Nations says. According to the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo 1994, sexual and reproductive rights are based on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly on the number of children, the spacing of births and the availability of information and the means to do so. It also recognizes - and this is most important for this debate, pay attention - the right to take decisions on reproduction without discrimination, coercion or violence, as set out in human rights documents. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, trying to coerce a woman at the door of a health clinic is to violate her right to make decisions about her reproduction; that is, the human rights of women are being violated. [[Applauds]] Harassment, harassment and threats are systematic, organized and published in advance. Even, ladies and gentlemen, macabre elements are used, such as coffins of children at the doors of clinics and photographs of embryos that hand over to women. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty, as a legislature, to ensure the exercise of rights with guarantees. Right now, in several cities in Spain, attempts are being made to coerce women by threatening their freedom, privacy and well-being. Can you imagine this happening with any other health care? Have you seen concentrations at the hospital doors, for example, against men's vasectomy or against rehabilitation by breaking a cross ligament? What's the matter? This only happens because abortion is a woman's right, it just goes through that. [[Applauds]] Look, let us speak clearly, this is not a debate on abortion yes or abortion no - that debate has already taken place here in 2010 and the law is already recognized in our legal system - today's debate is about what we do with the threats and harassment that women suffer at the doors of clinics or a health centre because, ladies and gentlemen, they suffer harassment at the doors of a health centre. By the way, let me have a letter. Yes, the debate on abortion was won; it followed, with the majority of the votes in this House, a law of a socialist government and the strength of the feminist movement on the street. This is how the debate was won, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I am sure that the People's Party, especially Mr Gallardón, which tried to repeal the right to abortion, cost him a ministry and a political career. I'm sure you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, this initiative that we are presenting equates us to other countries in the initiative to regulate the harassment and harassment of women who decide to abort. Countries such as France, Germany or the United Kingdom have already regulated it through the security zones or by criminalizing this crime, understanding the legislator that these actions are a crime against the freedom of women and of coercion against the law regulated in their own laws. For example, in France, since 1993 - twenty-eight years ago - the crime of obstruction of abortion has been collected and even in 2017 it has been extended to those actions that they claim, with false or scientific information - surely this sounds like VOX's lordships - to coerce the will of women so that they do not abort. For my group, for the Socialist Group, the challenge of this proposal for a law is to protect women from harassment or coercion in the vicinity of places authorized to abort, and we propose to do so in a differentiated way to other types of harassment because the situation that many women are going to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy is very difficult. Sometimes they go alone and they're afraid because they're going to undergo surgery, and sometimes they go alone because they don't want anyone to know they're there. And you know what? They have the right to have no one know, they have the right to have no one know they're there. This bill is in line with the demands made by the feminist movement and clinics through ACAI. In addition, women are not the only ones who suffer from harassment and violence, as are the clinics themselves and the professionals and professionals who work in them. Many days have dawned the facades and surroundings of the clinics with anti-abortion messages, and too many days professionals and professionals are subjected to insults and harassment when they leave work. Look, ending this situation is not only an important issue for the feminist movement, for women, for the Socialist Group or for clinics, but also for the Ombudsman, who has mandated us to take initiatives to protect women. Harassment, harassment and coercion are attacks on women's freedom. Choosing our motherhood and choosing the present and future of our lives is a decision only of us, only of women. [[Applauds]] But it's also an attack on our privacy. Again, the intention of these organized groups is to publicize the sexuality and intimate life of women. I know that this, ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, makes you a little nervous, especially for two reasons. The first, because you know very well the concentrations at the doors of the clinics. The groups that promote them have a programmatic proximity to their very close positions, ladies and gentlemen of PP and VOX. And secondly, because their model of society, both that of the People's Party and that of VOX, keeps men at the centre of everything, and that of women's rights seems to them to be an expense. Right, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? That is why you have been asked to abolish the Congressional Equality Commission, because killing us and having fewer opportunities seems to you to be an expensive whim. It is unworthy, unworthy for the proceedings of this House to have to receive proposals as obscene as that of suppressing the Equality Commission of the Congress of Deputies; it is unworthy, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let us be clear once and for all what your position is on violence against women. Do you condemn gender-based violence, yes or no? What they did in the Eurochamber last week, not supporting violence against women being considered Eurocrime, is improper of a party that aspires to govern this country, is improper. Don't fool people any more, with gender-based violence there's no abstention that's worth it; it's not worth the abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, harassment sometimes occurs in organized groups that have a kind of perpetual worship around clinics, a constant vigilance so that, for a certain period of time, from nine in the morning to nine in the evening, they do not escape any women. Even, they publicly invite anyone to sign up on their websites and cover an hour of surveillance in person. This I tell you, you can check it right now by entering your websites from your mobile phones. Even, they pray at the door of the clinics. Don't tell me it's not at least picturesque to see people pray in front of a medical center. But, ladies and gentlemen, beyond that, it is very hard for women to see them there, because the mission of these undesirables is to make them feel guilty, and they have enough to bear this. Look, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, pray as much as you please, but leave the women alone; leave them alone. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up. It is time to stop this and call things by their name; call harassment and harassment of the violation of the exercise of a right, and call persecution against women machism and submission. Ladies and gentlemen, the things that happen to women are not a problem for women, they are actions against our democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u4	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u5	Thank you, President. I'm on my way. My group trusts that the consideration of this initiative will come out with as much support as possible. It would not be understood in any other way that the Legislature would deny the opportunity for women in this country to protect a right that women have earned at a time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u6	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mrs Ruiz Solás. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u7	Thank you very much, President. They only asked me one question: What do you need to avoid abortion? So, I stopped because, deep down, I needed someone to tell me there were more options. They were the only ones who gave me the option to have my daughter. [[Applauds]] This is just a humble testimony - one in thousands - the testimony of a woman who finally decided not to abort and who today lives happily with her daughter. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 5,200 lives in just five years; more than 5,200 children saved when they were already evicted; more than 5,200 mothers who will never have to regret the terrible decision they made one day. That is the serious crime, the serious crime committed by the armed groups working at the gates of abortion clinics. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are going to have to listen to the truth; a truth that we know you do not want to hear; a terribly painful truth, but absolute and unquestionable; a truth that many do not want to face, but that to everyone, at the bottom of your heart and no matter how much you want to hide it, you know well; a truth that you want us to shut up, at the risk of going to jail if we do not. I do not know if you are aware of the level of madness you are reaching, because that is what you intend with this bill, to prevent us from telling the truth. And the truth is that what is in a woman's womb when she becomes pregnant is a person, a human being, the weakest, most defenceless, and most vulnerable human being that exists. [[Applauds]] He is a human being always, always, not only when we want him and we say with joy: I am waiting for a baby, or with sadness: I have lost the baby I was waiting for. He is also a human being when we do not want him for whatever circumstance and we deceive ourselves or let ourselves be deceived so as not to face a reality that causes us to suffer. I know that this is a very hard truth to fit in, but, although they do not want to listen to it, it is our obligation to proclaim it here with all the humility of the world in the use of our freedom of expression and thought, just as they proclaim it with courage and with the same freedom, a freedom that no one should take away from them, who come to the doors of abortion clinics to demonstrate peacefully against abortion. It is our duty to proclaim it because we represent millions of Spaniards who do not resign to accept that a just society considers it a right to take the life of an unborn. It is our duty to try, at least try, to open your eyes and finally see the terrible mistake that, as a society, we are making justifying, encouraging and normalizing abortion. Although, in fact, you already know that and that's why you don't want us to say words like abortion or abortion, you prefer us to say IVE ocentros IVE, because it's much less painful; and that's why you want to prevent us from saying that when someone aborts they're ending their child's life, because they can't stand to hear the truth, and because it's much easier and less distressing to conveniently rotate the computer screen and silence the sound of the heartbeat during ultrasounds. [[Applauds]] It is much easier to explain, knowing that it is not true, that a fetus is just a mash of cells and hide information from mothers. How hard it is to endure the truth when it puts us against the mirror! But, ladies and gentlemen, to be truly free, free to decide what we do with our lives and those of our own, we must know and accept the truth, and the truth is that it is a crime to kill one to save another, that it is not fair to take one life to solve a problem, that it is not progressive to eliminate difficulties by eliminating human lives. But not only do you not want to see the truth, to accept the truth, but you want to penalize those who tell the truth. They want to make criminals who pray peacefully on the street convinced that their prayer can save lives, who offer free ultrasounds so that mothers who want to see and hear what others deny them: the life inside them. They want to turn offenders into those who offer information about the risks of an abortion, about its consequences, its consequences, even pretending to deny that they exist; and also those who offer help to those mothers who would surely not abort having someone to help them. They want to make criminals who are the only harm they can do with their work at the gates of these clinics is to make those who in the background believe that they are doing evil and no harm to those who are convinced that what they do is right. They want to turn delinquents into those who only pretend to know that a woman has the option of choosing something else only if that's what she wants, and the most terrible of all is that they want to do it because they are asked to do so by the real stakeholders who every day more abortions occur, thus bending, without any scruple, to the economic interests of one of the most profitable businesses in the world; a business that accounts for many millions of euros each year for hospitals and private clinics dedicated to abortions, especially since the Aido Law came into force, that law that the People's Party was able to repeal and never repealed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that abortion continues to be a very important source of income for these companies - there they are! - but it is very serious that you have the power to demand from the government that a new crime be invented, that abortion be prevented, to protect your business and that you obey quickly and harshly, knowing that you are violating fundamental rights of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, you take as certain the accusations of the employer of the abortion business without a single complaint that has prospered, you buy it without doubt that there is a constant harassment of women who are going to abort and who are being coerced, coerced, intimidated and harassed, when you know that if it were true there would be convictions and that these clinics are only overreacting to protect their businesses. Our Criminal Code generally considers that harassment occurs when a person repeatedly and insistently stalks another, seriously altering the development of his daily life, modifying his daily habits, limiting his freedom to act. Where's the harassment, ladies and gentlemen? But it is that, moreover, harassment is already penalized in our order. The crime of harassment is a crime created through the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015 and is classified as a crime against freedom, as a crime of coercion. Ladies and gentlemen, coercing is limiting something. Do these concentrations prevent women from freely entering these clinics to abort? The crime of coercion involves the use of force, violence or intimidation to compel or prevent a person from doing anything against his or her will. Intimidating is causing fear. To harass is to bother someone or to make fun of him insistently. And if any of this were really happening, we're sure there would be convictions. And if there were, don't have the slightest doubt that we would always be next to any woman who was assaulted, threatened, intimidated and harassed, for whatever reason. [[Applauds]] But there aren't. They are not because different thinking is not hate, because defending positions peacefully is not coercing and because freedom of expression, thought and manifestation is the same for all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is shameful, in addition to absolutely unnecessary and redundant, to invent a new crime that is tailored to the economic interests of those who do business with the death and at the expense of the suffering of so many women, but it is much worse to do so with the dark intention of violating the right of a part of society to express its will against abortion. That you bet on death and not life we already know. We see it sadly when they preferred to approve their law on euthanasia rather than ours, on palliative care, and we see it every time they prefer to finance abortions for thousands rather than invest a single euro in helping pregnant women, mothers who want to be pregnant and who cannot for economic or other reasons. [[Applauds]] Now we also know that it is you who are the government of prohibition and authoritarianism, who wants to subject us by force, bend ourselves and criminalize us by expressing our opinions, by fighting for what we believe in, but we find it more difficult to accept what you really claim with this proposal of law, because it has to be very bad, ladies and gentlemen, it has to be very bad to not even allow anyone who wants to fight to give so many destitute children a last chance to live. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do believe in life, we believe in life furiously, and that is why we will always fight to defend it from the moment of conception until natural death, but we will do so by offering alternatives to women, helping mothers and their families, and accompanying them and protecting themselves on the road, because we do not invent or curtail rights, we respect them, starting with the right to life, which is the first, the most sacred and the most precious of all rights. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u8	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have not brought here a stand against the criminalization of harassment, you have brought a stand against the 1975 abortion itself, at least little. Listen to her, really, it's going away some other time. [[Applauds]] Look, I'm going to ask you, VOX, but also the People's Party, two things; I'm going to ask you, for a moment, to forget the issues that ideologically bother you very much. Forget about abortion and focus on the exercise of a right recognized in our legal system. Aren't you the constitutionalists, the freedom ones? For they are opposing the exercise of a right recognized in a country like ours, of guarantees; they are opposing the exercise of their own freedom. And the second thing I'm going to ask you: how impossible it is for you to forget about abortion, because you are very obsessed with it and because subjecting women to the rules of sudoctrine is a foundational pillar of your ideas, defend your ideas as much as you want, but let women exercise their rights over their life and motherhood in peace and freedom. Leave them alone, really! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I will not allow you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - I will not allow you - to question the defence of the freedom of expression of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I won't let you! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] If we endure the barbarities that you say here, it is because we are a democratic party and a defender of freedom of expression. You can think whatever you want about abortion, whatever you want; defend that you are against here, present an initiative, say it in its manifestations. But what they can't do is stand in front of a woman to hinder her passage to a clinic, offend her, insult her and call her a murderer. That's what they can't do. That is not freedom of expression; that is a crime, that is coercion. [[Applauds]] I have also told you before: pray as much as you want, but let women exercise their rights. [[Protests.- Mr. Sánchez García: Bruja!]] [[1]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u10	One second, Your Honor. Mr. Sánchez García, you called the order and I ask you to withdraw what you just said. [[A Member: Freedom of expression! That's freedom of expression!]] One second, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u11	This lady, since she took the floor, she hasn't said... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u12	Your Honor, you called the order for the second time. I reiterate that you withdraw what you just said; just tell me yes or no. For the second time, he called the order.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u13	What does it mean when you say you call me to order and take back what I said?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u14	Whether you remove it or not, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u15	But what does it mean to remove it?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u16	That you withdraw it so that it does not appear in the Journal of Sessions what you have just said publicly and that you have heard practically the whole Chamber. Back off, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u17	I don't take it back that he said he was lying.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u18	For the third time, he called the order. Dispose of the Chamber, please. [[applause.-Pause]] Dispose of the Chamber, please. [[Pausa.-Mr.Vice-President, Gil Lázaro: You are not altering the order. He is simply saying that he does not withdraw it.- Mr Sánchez García leaves his seat, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simón Goes out to meet him and Mr Sánchez García returns to his seat]] Your Honor, I ask you, please, to withdraw from the Chamber for having called you, as the Rules of Congress say, three times to order. [[Mr. Vice President, Gil Lázaro: But you haven't altered the order. You can't call the order because it hasn't altered the order, it's just that it doesn't withdraw it, then it's an arbitrary act.- Mrs. Olona Choclán: It's not a regulation! We ask for the floor, President.]] Your Honor, please withdraw from the Chamber. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán: It's not a regulation! The consequences have to be explained.—Mr.Anguita Pérez: Let the Rules be studied!—Mrs.Olona Choclán: Shut up!—Protests]] On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to withdraw from the Chamber and ask the... [[Mr Sánchez García leaves his seat.- Mrs Olona Choclán: President, we ask for the floor!-Protests]] Thank you very much, sir. Go on, Mrs. Berja. [[Mr Vice-President, Gil Lázaro: You have asked for the floor!- Mr Sánchez García goes to the chair of Mr Rodríguez Gómez de Celis.- Mr Sánchez García returns to his seat]] Mrs Berja has the floor. Go on, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u19	Thank you very much, President. You, much pray, but also much insult and little respect, which is what you do. [[Applauds]] I told them to pray as much as they want. They have enough places of worship to do it. [[Rumors]] I'm gonna finish it. The Penal Code is adapting to conduct and today we are aware that, just as women suffer from specific violence because they are women and the Penal Code incorporated them and assumed them as gender-based violence, there are crimes against women's freedom that must also be incorporated into the Penal Code. That the legislator detects impunity and typifies it, I think it's our job. 1 Word withdrawn by Mr Sánchez García at the request of the Presidency. See page 11. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen - and after that I say it more convinced - there is nothing more worthy to do in this House than to protect the freedom of all, but above all the freedom of women. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Commu Puem-Galicia in common, stood up.- A cleaning-service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u20	Mr Sánchez García, I have asked you and I have asked you on three occasions, as the Rules of Procedure state, to withdraw the serious insult that you have insulted the lady who was speaking at the time. [[Mr. Sánchez García utters words that are not perceived.-Mr.Anguita Pérez: Put on the mask!]] As the Rules of Procedure state, Your Honor, I have warned you three times to do so. You didn't do it. So, I ask you, please, so that your partner can initiate the intervention, to withdraw. [[Mr Sánchez García speaks words that are not perceived.- Mr Anguita Pérez: Put on the mask!- Mrs Olona Choclán: It is illegal!We ask for the floor, President!]] Mr Sánchez García, I ask you to withdraw so that we can continue the debate. You are obstructing the debate. [[Mr. Sánchez García utters words that are not perceived.-Mr.Anguita Pérez: The mask, put on the mask!-Pausa]] Mr Sánchez García, please withdraw so that we can continue the debate. You are interfering in the debate so that your partner can speak, please. [[On instructions from the Presidency, a man is heading to Mr Sánchez García's seat.- Mrs Olona Choclán: The lawyer! We're asking for cover! The lawyer! Please remind the President of the Rules of Procedure! Don't look anywhere else, they've kidnapped this Congress!]] Mr Sánchez García, please withdraw so that we can continue the debate. You are interfering in the debate so that your partner can speak. [[Mrs Olona Choclán: We ask for the floor, President! Question of order: Rule 172 in relation to Rule 104.-The Vice-President, Gil Lázaro: They are asking for the floor. It's just not the word anymore!]] Mr Sánchez García, please withdraw from the Chamber, as the Rules of Procedure state, so that we can continue the debate. [[Mr Sánchez García speaks words that are not perceived]] The interpretation of it, Mr Sánchez García, makes it the one who presides and, therefore, I say to him that he withdraws. Then you can submit all the resources you want, but at this time you have to withdraw. [[Mr. Sánchez García utters words that are not perceived.-Mr.Anguita Pérez: Put on your mask!]] Mr Sánchez García... Your Honor, please withdraw from the Chamber. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: It is not cause of expulsion, you know it. Correct.-Mr.Anguita Pérez: Put on your mask; put on your mask!]] Your Honor, I have no problem giving the floor to all those who ask for it when Mr Sánchez García leaves. [[One Member: Very well!- Mr Sánchez García goes down the stairs, talks to several members of the parliamentary group and sits next to Mrs Olona Choclán.-Applause from several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] We've suspended the session for ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take a seat, please. Mr Sánchez García, I repeat for the last time - if not, leave the Chamber - that you withdraw the qualification of 2 to the intervener. [[witch]] Yes or no, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u21	I take it I've called her 2. [[witch]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u22	Thank you very much. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u23	Thank you very much. I'm very concerned that your lordship doesn't understand that we're so concerned about abortion and that we're talking about abortion. It's just that this is a motion that deals with abortion, it's that we're going to worry now and whenever children are killed in his mother's womb. We'll never forget it and 2 Word withdrawn by Mr Sánchez García at the request of the Presidency. See page 10. We will always fight it. You talk about women. Indeed, women, the living and the unborn as well. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a woman is not free if she makes decisions when she suffers, if she makes decisions when she has problems, when she feels alone. If a woman has no choice but to abort, it is because she is not free, because no right can be exercised without freedom; no right can be exercised without freedom. You yourselves recognize it, the abortion clinics themselves recognize it: we emphasize supporting and accompanying it because it can be a painful procedure both psychologically and emotionally, says ACAI. Then why don't we do something to avoid it? Why do we leave women alone in situations that are so harsh, with no alternative but a quick solution? Why do we force them to decide whether to save themselves or their children, when we could save them both? Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the ones to judge who did it and why it did it, because nobody is in the heart of women who have seen themselves in the need to abort, but we can fight abortion. Of course we can fight abortion! Making every effort to ensure that no woman sees herself in the need to do so, because that is the most peaceful and precious way to fight the most terrible crime of mankind. [[Applauds]] A crime that not only denies a life in the womb, but deprives it of all dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, you are free to do evil. Unfortunately, we are all free to do evil, but at least do not prevent others from doing good. Let us at least try; let the groups try. Do not listen to those who profit from the suffering of women at their most vulnerable time and really fight for women and their true rights; also, ladies and gentlemen, for the rights of women of the future; also for the rights of unborn women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u24	I have the floor in the position paper by Mrs Pozueta Fernández, Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceed to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u25	Mr. President, Mr. Guztioi. Our group shares the points that the Socialist Group brings to this House in this proposal for a law, and we will therefore vote in favour of it being taken into consideration. We denounce the harassment, detection and criminalization that are taking place at the doors of the clinics where pregnancy interruptions are carried out. In particular, in Navarre and in Guipúzcoa, since the beginning of this year, they have been repeated, assuming an attack on the freedom and privacy of women who decide to interrupt their pregnancy. But this reform of section 172 is part of a more comprehensive, comprehensive and necessary reform of the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act that was passed eleven years ago. We consider it urgent and necessary to evaluate it in order to adapt it to the needs of the 2021 society. It is necessary to collect aspects such as the unjustified dehumanization and medicalization of reproductive processes and to put in place the necessary means for them to disappear. It is also urgent to eliminate the three days of reflection required of any woman who decides to terminate her pregnancy. This requires questioning the decision-making capacity of women. We make decisions, and we don't need permission or training from outside bodies to make what we decide. We've decided. After these eleven years, what should be done, no more or less, is to comply with most of the precepts of the law and reform, at least, the above mentioned. That does not remain its articulated on the paper without being developed. On the other hand, the guarantee of accessibility and equity is one of the black spots in the implementation of this law, since not all women have it guaranteed. In addition, there is a need to give a strong response to the fact that the conscientious objection of the professionals who interact in order to make a legal termination of pregnancy. They clearly confront the rights of professionals with women's rights. Thus, many of them find it difficult to realize their rights within the public network. Moreover, this fact is favoring a private health sector, which benefits professionals, in order to avoid alleged complications, tend to derive many of the acts that would have to be offered from the public network, such as interruptions by pharmacological means for pregnancies of less than seven weeks, ultrasounds to concreteize gestation time and interruptions of pregnancy of less than fourteen weeks. There's a big business that you don't talk about very much about. Finally, it is once again up to us to talk about sex education. We've been talking about sex education for too many years. It is a very sensitive issue, generates many discussions and debates and is not given a real answer. We know that with comprehensive sex education, many of the unwanted pregnancies currently occurring would not exist and, as a result, rates of termination of pregnancy will be lowered. It is time to address sexuality as a enabler of relationships based on good treatment, on the ethics of the relationship, on the diversity of identities and sexuality, on critical sexual relations with coitocentrism; it is time to talk more about conception and perhaps less about contraception. It is time to address the issue seriously and that in the curriculum of the degrees related to education, health, social and even legal, human sexuality has a rank; it is increasingly necessary. The university has to train professionals who are going to work with sex and who, depending on their evolutionary moment, will show specific needs and will need answers, but answers that are not ideological or moral, not even silence, but professional answers. As you see, there is still a way to go and, in order to go through it, it is necessary, in addition to having the goal marked, to have the will to do so. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u26	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u27	Thank you very much, President. Many issues, such as the voluntary termination of pregnancy or euthanasia itself, generate in our societies and in those of our environment debates with positions found in which consensual solutions are very difficult, because they are debates that polarize society. However, once society, through the legislator, through pre-established democratic procedures, adopts a position that generates a right and regulates its exercise, it must also be very guarantor with the people who want to exercise it, because, if not, that other part of society that opposes it will use all the legal cracks at its disposal to hinder or prevent its exercise by bringing about the exercise of other rights. The proposal for a law put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group comes precisely to address this serious situation which has been taking place in our society repeatedly since the adoption in 85 of the decriminalisation of three cases. And, in an aggravated way, it has been happening since 2010, when Law 2/2010, of voluntary termination of pregnancy, introduced the so-called model of system of deadlines. The facts are well known and are not exclusive to Spain. The same pattern is reproduced in all countries, with the same arguments and in all countries similar policy responses are articulated. Thus, individuals, groups or anti-abortion organizations, bringing rights such as ideological freedom, expression, information, gathering, regularly focus on the doors of health centres that facilitate or inform about the termination of pregnancy in order to ensure that women who come to them desist from interrupting their pregnancy, collecting information about it or that the staff of these accredited centres cease their professional activity. The case is that, both professionals and women, have systematically denounced harassment, intimidation, harassment to emotionally hinder the exercise of their rights and that it is manifested, according to the cases, in eggs on the facades, painted, signage and delivery of leaflets, false information, reproaches, insults of murderers, screams and intemperances, photographs, corridors through which they have to pass, public signals and a long et cetera. This makes especially women who feel vulnerable by being exposed in this way to the doors of authorized health centres and precisely at very difficult emotional moments for them, in which they demand the opposite: privacy, protection of moral integrity and not harassment, in short, adequate conditions that do not hinder or hinder the exercise of their right, which is already difficult because of the strong emotional component involved. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation has led to a persistent demand for institutional protection to date, but the time has come to address it with a clear message: it cannot be allowed to intimidate or stigmatise those professionals or women who are respectively working or accessing a legal and public service in the exercise of their rights. The right to protest, to freedom of expression, the right of assembly of persons and groups opposing abortion may be articulated against the legislation and rights it recognizes, but not by intimidating, coercing, harassing, hindering and publicizing those other specific persons who wish to exercise their rights recognized by the legal system, limiting their freedom to act with conduct aimed at affecting the process of formation of their will, filling themselves with a feeling of fear, uneasiness or anguish in order to change their conduct and without the active subject of these conduct being legitimized for it. Ladies and gentlemen, countries in our environment, in the face of identical situations, are reacting in a similar way to what is now proposed in the initiative we are discussing; harassing and restricting the right to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy or helping to voluntarily interrupt it is a crime with prison sentences and fines. And, ladies and gentlemen, it must be here too. France, Austria, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and others are considering this, as well as establishing unsafe distances around the health centres where this right is exercised, as well as sanctioning the publication or issuance by any means of information that is not true about abortion and its consequences and that can lead to error intentionally as a deterrent. I'll finish it, President. We also believe that criminal prosecution should be ex officio, not as private offences. In this, too, women need institutional support; if not, many crimes will go unpunished, because above all women want to preserve their privacy and that would be broken if criminal prosecution requires denunciation and sustenance of action. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We shall vote in favour of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u28	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by referring to the fact that we have a number of rights in our country, and no one should point out to us why. It is enough to point out to women, and I believe that the whole House must agree with this. From a legal technical point of view, I wanted to refer to the proposing party, the Socialist Party. The legislative technique is perhaps not the most appropriate for the approach of the proposal that they make to us, because it has created some doubt, and it is that the coercion is already defined in our Criminal Code. Criminal law serves to protect the exercise of constitutionally recognized fundamental rights, but abortion is not a right recognized in our Constitution. This, then, perhaps makes us see that the fit of criminal law itself is not so much to make policy with it, but to use the proper legislative technique that offers legal certainty. In one of the other interventions, reference has already been made to the fact that an introduction and amendment to the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act addressing the protection of women and the exercise of their rights may be more appropriate. Therefore, we want to make it clear that we consider that perhaps the lace should be another. However, we have to refer to the substance of the matter, and by entering it, women have a number of recognized rights, such as the voluntary termination of pregnancy in compliance with the guidelines laid down by law. And we have that right despite the fact that the bench on the right, the People's Party, at the time, opposed the recognition of this right. It seems to me important, moreover, because we are at a time when we are talking about progress in rights, yes; of the use of the word freedom, yes, but do not use it, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, only as a slogan. I would like to remind you that last week in the European Chamber we have had a number of advances in the recognition of rights where you have voted in red. They have not been in favour of the recognition of same-sex couples throughout the European Union or of gender-based violence as a cross-border crime. Let him look at it when they talk about freedom. [[Applauds]] Make him look at it. Likewise, when they speak of guaranteeing the exercise of rights, because this current situation deserves the support of the great forces who want to improve the defence of the fundamental rights of all people. Returning to our issue, if a woman decides to abort within legally recognized cases, I find it totally outrageous that she is coerced, harassed or questioned. It's good that that happens in our society! Why? Because we have recognized rights and what we have to do is guarantee their exercise, and today we are talking about guaranteeing the exercise of these rights. Clearly, people can express their opinion, but what they can't do is harass a woman. Anyone who has been close to a person who, unfortunately, is faced with such a decision knows that it is not a simple process, that it is not an easy process. If you have to go to the clinic and they're accusing you of killing, it seems to me that it's not just a matter of freedom of expression, but it's a matter of coercion, harassment and intimidation of that person when he wants to exercise his right in a free way. We therefore agree with this consideration, just as we are going to work on the text itself so that the necessary legal certainty is really generated. But, in addition, the Ombudsman's 2020 report already reported on this issue, when he asked the Ministry of the Interior to ensure the privacy of women attending these clinics and to protect their physical and moral integrity. The association of qualified clinics itself conducted a survey of three hundred women, which resulted in 89 per cent feeling harassed and 66 per cent threatened. In addition, professionals who are doing their job must be respected, and what they cannot do is to coerce them when they are going to do their job. It would be of no use to this Parliament if, when we legislate, we do not allow the free exercise of the rights we recognize; or if, when we legislate, we allow people to threaten them by making use of the laws we have passed. I think we need to go a step further, Your Honor. We want to work to win new rights, but also to ensure their free development. That is why we are going to vote in favour. Because, moreover, we have to be aware of the hard decision that many women are making in this situation and we must not allow them to be questioned, threatened or assaulted simply by exercising their rights. I believe that women have already been - and are still being - pointed out, questioned, discriminated against and treated differently simply by the fact that we are women. Therefore, in the exercise of our rights we want freedom, but freedom with capitals, and that is what we are going to defend from my party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u30	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. The right of women to decide on their own body, to choose whether or not they want to be mothers and when they want to be mothers, has been a conquest of the feminist and democratic struggle. We share the need to put in place all the mechanisms to guarantee that right and we will vote in favour of the proposal, as no woman should be coerced, threatened or coerced in the free exercise of her right. However, we also want to note that most women go to private clinics in many cases that are exclusively dedicated to this practice because of the difficulties they encounter when they want to do so through public health, and this is not logical, particularly because many public health professionals claim to be conscientious objectors. Thus, interruptions of pregnancies are often performed through concerts in private entities where, surprisingly, there is no conscientious objection, and this also facilitates the work of intransigent people who specialize in restricting and violating rights. We therefore believe that the rule needs to be amended. From the BNG's point of view it is clear: when it comes to rights there can be no interference or conscientious objection, legally recognized rights, such as free, safe and free abortion, must be effectively guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. [[The lady]] I had prepared something else, because I had seen that part of the ultra associations, and even of the ultra deputies, had moved the hashtag 'Praying is not harassing' and they believed that they were defending that this was legislation that was going to prevent people from praying. I had a slightly more prepared argument and even quoted one thing from Matthew but, in fact, it turns out that the intervention of a VOX Member has shown perfectly what we are talking about. If there is a Member of the far right who with anger and pride dares to behave like this in this House with a Member, what they will not tell at the door of the clinics to women who go alone to try to abort! [[Applauds]] That an inquisitor calls you a witch is a pride, partner. This is not a debate about praying or not praying. Anyone who wants to pray can do so wherever he wants: he can pray in his home, he can pray in a church, and he can even pray in a public space. Ultras don't go to clinics to pray, because they're not going to save souls, they're going to make the decision more painful and more difficult for adults who have made a decision not easy, not simple, on a day when they have to be quiet, when they don't have to be afraid or have to have any threat, and they're going to increase the pain a little bit more at a particularly painful time for a person who's made a decision that's already difficult. Some testimonies from women who have been harassed at the doors of the clinics: 'They made me very nervous and they wouldn't leave me alone for as long as I asked'. Another: 'They made me feel like a murderer. I've been told I'm going to hell, that I was killing my son.' Another: 'I have come to a very nervous clinic because abortion is not easy, but for me the worst has been harassment. I wanted to cry and go home.' What does this have to do with praying? When a worker is insulted or assaulted from a clinic at the entrance to his work, what does it have to do with praying? When you make a hallway to yell at her killer and throw fetus dolls at a woman who's going into a clinic, what does that have to do with praying? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. Ultras don't go to clinics to pray; they go to clinics to harass and put more pain in women's bodies and you know it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u34	It has to end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u35	Women have the full right to terminate their pregnancy and the State has an obligation to guarantee their freedom to do so if they so decide without threats and pain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u37	There's a reactionary wave going on - we've seen it already in Chueca - and it's not going to stop getting timid or looking somewhere else; it has to be blunt... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u39	Thank you, President. If you decide to interrupt your pregnancy, the appointment with the surgeon falls on a last Friday of the month and you live in Madrid, you have many numbers that at that moment when you need emotional support you are harassed by groups of pipers, who will accompany your last meters to the door of the medical center with insults, coercions, threats, screams and proclamations with which - hold on, ladies and gentlemen - they intend to support the pregnant woman. They are the same ones who go from reeds against the euthanasia. Of course, against patients who are living their last hours by their own decision, they cannot make a weekly schedule or draw a map to call through social media for obvious reasons. The activity of groups such as that of Cañas for Spain extends across many autonomous communities. They are the same ones that are wrapped in the Spanish flag to carry against the MENA, because we already know that for the extreme right there are lives that matter and patera lives that do not matter so much. They are also those of the cold cane, which request hot returns on the beaches-border; they are the same. Abortion is not a feminist whim, but a personal choice difficult to take - as has been said -, painful physically and emotionally speaking. But, in addition, it is a right recognized in Law 9/1985, which decriminalized the interruption of pregnancy in three cases, and in Organic Law 2/2010, which defends abortion in any case when it is the will of the pregnant woman and takes place in the first fourteen weeks. That is why these harassing and harassing pipes have to be penalized, as they have done in Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom and France, for example. Their actions cannot go unpunished, because one thing is freedom of expression and another very different from the harassment to which they subject the women who decide to abort and the health workers who give them professional support and who, overcoming their impact by the pressure to which they are subjected by these groups, also help these women emotionally. Although defence is a right, it should not need justification. Amnesty International's Key Facts on Abortion report provides data that should be taken into account. The ratio of abortions in countries that allow abortions of 34; in countries that do not allow it or only in cases of risk of life for women is 37. There is very little difference in percentage and, on the contrary, a great difference in the conditions under which work can be done. A good medical accompaniment, in good facilities, but also a good emotional accompaniment on the part of the society that we all form are a right to preserve. Obliging a pregnant person to carry an unwanted pregnancy is a violation of his human rights and of his or her bodily privacy and autonomy. More than 50 countries have changed their laws over the past 25 years to make abortion more accessible to women who want to end unwanted pregnancy. Criminalizing them, as well as the professionals who help them, is a form of discrimination condemned by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and must also apply to transgender men. Transmitting through harassment the false idea that something is being done against the law generates stigmatization in harassed persons and must be punished criminally. That is why we are voting in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u41	Thank you, President. Members, Members, good afternoon. To be clear, we are the daughters and granddaughters of the witches who could not burn in the bonfires. [[Applauds]] And no, we will never again, ever again, allow his intolerance to kill us again. [[Applauds]] When this is clear, I also tell you that you can tell me what you want, because I am a Member, but to these women, do you believe you have the right to impose your convictions? And they call us ruins? And I do it in this tone because it seems that fascism likes to talk in this tone, so, soft, and then it seems like nothing happens. But today we have seen it in this House, because what we have seen a while ago - and a few of us seem to have missed it or not to want to talk about it - is that they insult, deny that they insult, refuse to comply with the orders of the Presidency of the House, do not leave, say that they have not said and on top of it we stand and let us see that nothing has happened. For God's sake, they're gonna pass us over and we're not gonna notice! And that's exactly what they're doing. [[Applauds]] Let's see, abortion for many years is a rather peaceful issue. Today I had a few technical considerations: that must be done in the public, in fact, whether outpatient or in hospital, so they would not have the ability to detect where they are being done and, consequently, we would not have the panda of energumens at the entrance of the well-identified clinics. It brought considerations as to how it should be financed, it brought some considerations saying that yes, that we agree - by the way, that we will vote for them - but of course, you take your job but they come to you, you ride this circus, this show, and they already have cover. What's he gonna talk about? May you, poor VOX kids, have taken them out of the compound. From the compound? No, no, we would have to get them out of the parliamentary bow, through votes - yes, sir - but it is that if not, exactly as with abortion, their only option is: either you think how we yaw like us, or we will tell you how you have to act; what you think, your rights, your freedom, your body does not belong to you, it belongs to them because they have the right, the faith and the truth. Look at you, remember that not long ago a deputy of yours said here: We are the truth, the beauty and the good. That day I was shocked because it is the basis for imposing on the rest their convictions in all areas of life, and we cannot fail to face that authoritarian wave that is going to - and I say it again - to crush. Hey, you think - I think it's great, you don't need to know if I believe too or not - because you create, you make meetings, you manifest yourself against abortion, but not against women, because that's violence, macho violence and it's bad, contemptible and petty. [[Applauds]] Have you aborted? Do you know what's going on? There are three aspects that you should not forget and that it would be good for you to listen. First, no woman should say why, what reasons she has to abort, she is a right; second, no one in this House, and I believe that no one in the world, has the right to question her decision, because it is her body, her life and her freedom. [[Applauds]] My mouth is dry from the anger that causes me that impunity with which they think they can mark what others have to do and how we have to live. Too many unpunished years; that's your problem. Just like the other big problem is that when your people, your women - because they're not all so holy - they wanted to abort you going to London and the poor here couldn't abort or do it under absolutely precarious conditions, because the problem is that you've held power and wealth and the rest that you've managed as well as you can. But do you know what's going on? That apart from being left-wing, I'm an independentist. With these shows I hope you are doing the great favor that there are more and more independenceists because this Congress is unbearable. Do you realize what you're up to?: We have the truth and you are all a panda of murderers, you are a panda of evil men, you are a panda of liars. Is this a way of doing politics? This is a populism and a demagogy that a society that had progressed slowly does not deserve. It does not deserve politicians like these that the truly vital facts of women turn them into casus belli, populism and demagogy. They will be found sooner or later, but I also tell you one thing: we are organized and feminists will not take a step back, les dones parim, les dones decidem. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u43	First of all, dear Laura, dear Pilar and dear feminist companions who are in this Chamber, yes, we are the nieces of the witches that you could not burn and, as Silvia Federici also says, who clearly has not read it, the witch hunt contributed to destroy the social power of the woman, to evaluate her as a subject, to devalue her as a subject. This, feminist comrades who are in this House, can never again allow it. [[Applauds]] Thank you. On 26 October 1979, ten women and one man went to the Bilbao Provincial Court to be tried for abortion or abortion. Outside, 3,000 feminists are showing their support and claiming the right to decide on their own body. Although it did not happen because one of the eleven did not appear and was never resumed by social mobilization, the judgement of the eleven of Basauri is paradigmatic and is considered to be the precursor of the 1985 Act that partially decriminalized abortion. And today I wanted to talk about them, about the eleven of Basauri and also about the three thousand feminists who were out, because they made history and because our memory must have them in mind when we talk about progress in our sexual and reproductive rights. Just as I want to talk about a pioneering clinic in Madrid, Dator, which has suffered systematic harassment, along with many other clinics throughout the state, of ultra-groups that are dedicated to violating the rights of both those who go to clinics to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy and those who work legally in them. It's an atrocious harassment and it's undemocratic. The Ombudsman's Office itself has already stated that if obstructive actions are taken through intimidation, coercion or violence, there can be gradual and proportionate police action. And yes, when you've made the decision to interrupt your pregnancy, when you've made that decision, which is difficult because it always is, and you're going to go through a medical intervention, whether instrumental, whether it's pharmacological, harassing you with fundamentalist and ultra-conservative approaches is a violation of rights, it's indecent and it's violence because it's not help, because none of those women are going to stop aborting because they're freaking out, they're hurting you and they're criminalizing you, which is the only function that stalking has in front of those clinics. [[Applauds]] That is why we share the aim of this proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, of course, we will vote in favour of it. Once said this, we see a need to go much further. We know that the Ministry of Equality is working on the reform of Organic Law 2/2010, a law that - I mean here - eleven years ago marked a before and a after. But it has been eleven years, eleven years of feminist claim, eleven years with a March 8th, 2018, which has generated a turning point in the advancement of feminist rights and in the advancement of human rights, and it is necessary that we also conform to the time that has touched us and that we do what is right for us in our part of the legacy. Our country needs a much deeper reform - structural and comprehensive - than something that only affects the Criminal Code. Women's problems in accessing their sexual and reproductive rights go beyond what has to do with access to clinics. In Spain, there are autonomous communities where EVIs are not carried out. Most EVIs are carried out in private clinics because of the deep problem - already mentioned - that exists with conscientious objection, in which often issues of morality as well as of pure precariousness, of working environment or of disinterest in a practice that is undervalued in the medical studies themselves. We have the National Sexual and Reproductive Health Strategy, approved in 2011, which needs to be renewed and the 2007 Normal Birth Care Strategy, which also needs to be renewed. These are just some of the small and important issues that we need to reform. The fundamental response has to be public health, because the best way to protect women is by strengthening public services, and it is from the public that the exercise of rights can be guaranteed for all women, those who can afford it and those who cannot. And this is the only way one can explain that sometimes the right is so reticent to this recognition: they don't want it to be for everyone. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the right, do you really want us to think that the women who vote for you have not been seen in the situation of having to voluntarily interrupt your pregnancy? Reality and data tell us just the opposite: that abortion is not a matter of being right or left. And what we say is that, besides, it doesn't have to be a matter of living in one territory or another, of having purchasing power or not, of being brave in front of stalkers or not. Therefore, because this is to guarantee women's rights, the Ministry of Equality is preparing a legislative measure that will advance the right to free motherhood, because it is their responsibility to society, to the Constitution and to all the international agreements that we are obliged to implement in all institutions. I tell you very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about human rights, whether you like it or not, whether you recognize it or not. And as you look at Hungary, we rejoice at the revolution of the Argentine pibas; as you look at Poland, we greet the Irish; as you look at the past, we move forward with determination for a more just present, which will make us all, all, 'all', even you - if you please - happier. For 'the eleven of Basauri', for the three thousand feminists who waited in the audience of the Bilbao Audience, for the women who are not here today, for the women who suffer harassment for doing their job and for guaranteeing a right, for the freedom train, for which we go out to tell a minister that in our bodies we send us: sexual education to decide, contraceptives to not abort and abortion to not die! [[Lifting the fist]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Angulo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u45	Thank you, President. Today, the Socialist Group presents a proposal for a law that once again demonstrates its hypocrisy and the sectarian use of the institutions and our legal system to put it at the service of its political interests, even if they restrict fundamental rights, as the Constitutional Court has recently told them. On the pretext of guaranteeing access to private clinics for women who want to abort, which you say is being coerced by certain people to meet in front of them, you propose to include in the Penal Code a specific type to consider, without further ado, the crime of coercion to promote or participate peacefully in meetings in the vicinity of these clinics or to provide information, penalizing the exercise of fundamental rights such as the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly, obviating that if any incident occurs there are other avenues of solution. Because what is actually underlying this proposal is a new attempt to limit rights in a sectarian manner based on the ideology of the person exercising it. You do not want to punish alleged coercion, if that is the case, if it exists, and you know it, your proposal would be unnecessary because the Criminal Code already criminalizes coercion, punishing sufficiently those who, acting with violence or intimidation, are proven to prevent anyone from exercising a right. What you want is to ban the right of assembly or expression where and who you don't like, because you just have to put names and surnames. If you believe that the basic type of the Criminal Code does not protect against specific conduct, why do you not propose a specific type to guarantee the free political opinion of those women who suffer harassment or violence for their political affiliation? Or for those women who want to use our country's official language in their jobs or businesses without having to be harassed with threatening paints? Or why not also consider harassment or coercion of freedoms concentrations in front of places of religious worship or holding certain cultural shows that try to prevent access to them? [[Applauds]] Because your goal is not to guarantee freedoms or protect women, whom we in the People's Party do not judge by your thinking what you do, your goal in all areas is to develop a new, non-objective legal order, but ideologically in the service of your political interests. With this proposal, of dubious constitutionality, they criminalize the right of peaceful assembly or the freedom of expression of people just because they do not think like you while supporting another proposal of law to decriminalize and grant impunity to those who, yes, violently attack our institutions, our constitutional symbols, the religious feelings of millions of Spaniards or carry out acts of exaltation of terrorism. That is to say, you who commit these acts give the benefit of an unlimited, lax interpretation of the right to freedom of expression, because this is only if you like the left; you grant them the unlimited right to harass, attack feelings or to sit in a permanent and painful victimization, through humiliation and contempt, to certain citizens or collectives, as is the especially bloody case of the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] Because it is incoherent and indignant, Mrs Berja, that you propose to criminalize the right of expression, information or peaceful assembly of a particular collective, I insist, almost with names and surnames, only because you do not share your ideology or values, when you have done absolutely nothing to prevent concentrations and demonstrations that have been held in support of those who murdered, kidnapped, threatened and caused terrible pain to the victims of these acts and to the whole of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] The sophrasing of hatred and justification of violence that is heard and shouted at in these concentrations are acts of harassment, intimidation and coercion against the freedom of thousands of citizens and, in addition, a double victimization for the victims. And before that, you, complicit silence. From the People's Party we will always ensure respect for the dignity and honour of the victims. In the People's Party we are not going to fall into their ideological traps, those of which the Spaniards are getting more and more tired because they are designed only to cover up their sectarian policies, those that abandon families by bringing them to poverty and unemployment, especially women, who are the most landless every time the Socialist Party rules. They are not going to frighten us or complicate themselves with what some jurists have called punitive populism, in order to persecute anyone who does not serve their interests or does not support their version of things, always pointing to the Spaniards according to their ideology, dedicated as they are only to generating confrontation and chrispation. [[applause]] Mrs Berja, of course neither the Socialist Party, let alone We can, are going to give the People's Party any lesson in defending women's rights with their lies and manipulations because it was the People's Party that promoted and approved the first State Pact against Gender Violence, which you and your government partners do not support, a pact that is now four years old and on which from this useless Ministry of Equality you have done absolutely nothing. [[applause]] Do you want us to talk about a violation of rights, Mrs Berja? Do you think that doing nothing in the case of the exploitation of minors protected by your Government in the Balearic Islands is not intimidating minors? Do you think that the manoeuvres of the Vice President of the Generalitat of Valencia to lessen the responsibility of her ex-husband, convicted for the abuse of a child under guardianship, is not a handicap to the freedom of that child? Isn't it a violation of your rights? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Look, if you really want to defend women's rights, start by protecting and defending precisely those girls, the weakest, and stop using the rest of the women for their political ends. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the body for the reform of Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of Judicial Power, of Strengthening the Independence of Judicial Power and of Reform of Law 50/1981, of 30 December, for which the Organic Status of the Tax Ministry is regulated, in order to ensure the impartiality of its performance. [[File number 122/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u47	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July, of the Judiciary, of strengthening the independence of the judiciary and of the reform of Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions in order to ensure the impartiality of its actions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the height of the populist boom, an illiberal current is now running through the backbone of the great democracies. Few countries have been immune to this scourge to the rule of law; it has even reached nations of long democratic tradition. We would have preferred Spain to have been an honorable exception to this wave of authoritarian seduction, in the words of Anne Applebaum, but it has not been so. Under the mermaid chants of direct democracy, governments and parliamentary forces of extreme political tendencies unscrupulously manipulate the feelings of uncertainty of societies hit by a decade of economic and health crisis to implement political programmes that pursue with divisive and manic methods the colonization of constitutional organs and the concentration of power in one hand. The institutions that counterbalance the Executive Power in the democratic rule of law are located on the front line of the beach, in front of an authoritarian galerna, and among them, at the foot of the coast, in the eye of the hurricane that threatens to destroy the institutional balances up to its very foundations, the walls of the independence of the Judiciary, safeguarding our rights and freedoms against abuse, injustice and the arbitrariness of the public authorities. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, article 117 of our Constitution states unequivocally: 'Justice emanates from the people and is administered in the name of the King by judges and judges who are members of the judiciary, independent, irremovable, responsible and subject only to the rule of law.' Indeed, they are subject only to the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not in vain know from the Republic of ancient Rome that we are slaves to the law in order to be free. The need to preserve the independence of judges and magistrates, which with great emphasis was enshrined in Chapter VI of our Magna Charter, was reflected directly in the Organic Law 1/1980 of 10 January of the General Council of the Judiciary, which opted for the direct election of judges as a system for the appointment of the twelve members of the judiciary. It was a socialist government in 1985 that subsequently introduced the parliamentary election of all members of the council, preventing judges from continuing to elect their peers as members of the judiciary. While the Constitutional Court declared in 1986 the constitutional conformity of this method of election, it warned then that the purpose pursued in article 122.3 of the Constitution could be frustrated if the Chambers, when making their proposals, were to deal solely and exclusively with the division of existing forces within themselves in order to distribute the seats to be filled between the various parties. Thirty-five years have passed since that judgment and, regrettably, his warning about possible risks has been confirmed. It is enough to recall the attempt by the two parties that make up the coalition government, PSOE and Podemos, on 13 October 2020, to modify the system of election of the judges members of the council by changing the requirement of a qualified majority of three-fifths by that of an absolute majority, based on the need to adapt it in what the then spokesmen of the two formations called as a possible majority, which was none other than that of the government, in a clear attempt to control the judiciary by the executive power, reform which - I read literally - had taken place, would have increased the Council's perception as an institution vulnerable to politicization, as reflected in the European Commission's report on the situation of the rule of law in 2021 in Spain last July 20, which also insists that European standards establish that at least half of the members of the council must be judges appointed by their counterparts at all levels of the judiciary. It is important that these European standards are taken into account and that all relevant stakeholders are consulted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, are we not going to take these European standards into account? Are we going to put ourselves on the sidelines? Are we going to place ourselves in the constitutional submission and the standards that mark us Europe? It's not possible and they have no excuse. It is necessary to move forward and face this reform in the sense indicated by the Constitutional Court as early as 1986 and which we propose today for consideration by the House because the aims pursued in the Constitution have been put at risk when the governing body of judges has recently been renewed. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative is a true reflection of the commitment of the People's Party promoted by its President, Mr Casado, since we took the lead in the process of primary elections in which it was elected by the members, incorporated, as it cannot otherwise be, in our electoral programme, with which we have been in the last general elections, and we have done so in favour of judicial independence and it has the unreserved support and explicit endorsement of all the Spanish judicial associations, the European Commission, the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission, which unanimously call for the Council's judicial deputies to be elected by their peers, for the judges to elect judges, and last time yesterday. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been left alone, without any support or arguments legitimising its refusal to undertake a real reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, as called for by the European Commissioner of Justice, Mr Reynders. Even on the assumption that Sánchez was transformed into a model and inspiring reference of democratic quality and scrupulous respect for the independence of the institutions, it would remain of urgent necessity that the Legislative Power, that is, this House, should support the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary and to reform the Law on Regulation of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which I have the honour to defend, on behalf of my group, today in this rostrum. But the indisputable fact is that in the Government of Spain there is today a Socialist Party historically allergic to the separation of powers, victim of the Stockholm syndrome towards the national reactionary populisms and radical populisms of the extreme left, and led by a president of the Government who is obsessed even with the disease by the submission of the constitutional organs to the vasallage of their autocratic designs. Therefore, if compliance with the constitutional spirit is inexcusable at all times and in every place, doing so today represents a democratic imperative for all parliamentary groups that defend the constitutional framework, especially after the government parties and their investiture partners have already rolled over the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary, after its renewal deadline. What the President himself calls the unconstitutional submission of the People's Party must therefore be understood as a democratic dissent from despotism and its campaigns of institutional erosion. [[Applauds]] What do we propose in this proposal for an organic law, ladies and gentlemen? With regard to the judiciary, return to the direct election by the judges, understanding that the current renewal should be governed by the current system, as reflected in the first transitional provision. Our clear commitment as proponents, from the solemnity of this rostrum, to the immediate renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Prohibition that members of the judicial career who are unable to seek the confidence of their peers may be appointed through the turn of lawyers. Prohibition, too, of access to the General Council of the Judiciary of those who have held political office in the last ten years. In addition, extend the requirement for qualified majority voting in the Council's appointments where they do not currently provide for this. The abolition of the figure of the so-called autonomic magistrate, appointed by the internal proposed councils of the autonomic parliaments. However, this proposal for an organic law fully addresses a reform of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions aimed at strengthening compliance with the principles of legality, impartiality and the duty to ensure the independence of the courts, as enshrined in article 124 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, 'who's prosecutor's office depends on? Well, that's it. These words, uttered ufanaly by Mr Sánchez just two years ago, are already in the Olympus of absolutism and that is what we have to stop. I would like to invite you to write in the Internet search engine of your mobile phone the following words: Dolores Delgado election rallies. They will be screened with a range of interventions by the state's attorney general today in the election campaign of the November 2019 general elections, just two months before being appointed to the office for its acrisolated merits as a political commissioner. It is no longer just that he was a minister minutes before occupying the dome of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, but that he was fanciful slogans against the People's Party from the dialectics of sides and the atrium of confrontation. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone is in the geographical opposites of impartiality, that is certainly Mrs Delgado, the state's current attorney general. Hence the proposal, included in this proposal for an organic law, to amend article 29.1, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, so that the appointment to the post of Attorney General of the State cannot be held by those who have held a representative position of political confidence in the previous ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we cannot today approve the retroactive return of the president of the government. Therefore, in defence of the dignity of this House as a legitimate depositary of national sovereignty, as an arm of legislative power, as a body of control and counterweight to the executive power, we ask you to support a proposal for a law that will benefit democratic institutions, today at such great risk they are and suffer from the arm of the government. Ours is a full democracy, but threatened in its fullness. They are laws like these - which we propose to you today - that prevent and prevent the sliding of the rule of law by the slippery slope of anti-liberalism in boga. Ladies and gentlemen, this cross-cutting duty of this whole parliamentary arc cannot be overshadowed. Let us hope that you do not have any further inconvenience in supporting the failure of the separation of powers if a left-wing government is installed in the Executive...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u49	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u50	... because perhaps one day they will regret very much not having done so if an illiberal government of the contrary eventually came to power. Ladies and gentlemen, do not get carried away by your political inclinations; they go beyond the short term. At any historical juncture, the limited Government is one of the foundations of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group is right when it proposes this bill to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and to reform the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office in order to ensure the impartiality of its proceedings. [[The Lord]] In view of this Government's alleged unwillingness to comply with the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has been certifying in its judgements throughout this XIV Legislature, it is very timely to consider a text for the General Courts to put an end to the current situation of perpetual blockade. The impeccability of the PSOE-We can, in its undisguised desire to exercise control over the governing body of the judges, prevents them from oxygenating the General Council of the Judiciary, whose renewal I rejected with a solitary intervention in the Senate almost eight years ago, opposing the system of parliamentary election that covers party quotas and humiliates the independence of one of the great powers of the State. Hence the return to a formula that advances in the election of judges and magistrates to the General Council of the Judiciary, which is also what the then Minister of Justice, Mr Ruiz-Gallardón, defended before the Courts, in order to subsequently disagree and maintain an arbitrary system, which is what today has engulfed the renewal of the head office of one of the three powers of the State, which, on the other hand, is suffering from the pressures and attacks of the present Government and seriously affected its independence. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the prosecutor's office? It was a violation of democracy and the law that Pedro Sánchez appointed her Prime Minister of Justice, Mrs. Delgado, who has in her possession the negative record of having been triplely repudiated by the General Courts and whose immediate future is pending various remedies to the Supreme before the palmarial evidence that she fails to fulfil a basic principle such as that of impartiality. Since the adoption of 1978, it has not been the first time that a socialist government has failed to comply with the law to appoint a prosecutor. Remember that unfortunate episode of the appointment - in the early 1990s - of Mr Eligio Hernández, who did not meet any of the requirements for his appointment. Today, we are also at the expense of the Supreme Court correcting the rotating door that placed former Minister Delgado as head of the State Attorney General's Office to make the government institution depend, a conviction and confession of Sánchez in a famous radio interview that outraged the whole judicial world. Mrs. Gamarra just remembered. That is why it is essential to strengthen the rule of law as a result of this parliamentary initiative, which I will support with my vote. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u54	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Simply and simply, not passing this bill is against judges being stopped from choosing politicians to be chosen by judges, which is what the vast majority of Spaniards are asking us to do. They're asking us to stop looking at our navel already and to stop saying: you didn't do it or you stopped doing it. It's time to look forward. Now we have a proposal for a law. Indeed, in the past some things have been done wrong, indeed, and by many sitting in this House, but it is time to give way to an unstoppable social demand, as judges choose. That was Mr Sánchez's commitment which, of course, will not be fulfilled once again. I also do not believe that this will harm you at all, because I do not believe that there is a single Spanish person who considers Sánchez to be a reliable person. You talk about two things. First of all, they talk about the pact. But what is a pact for you? Because, of course, the pact is to get closer, and the Socialist Party understands by pact to do what he wants, when he wants and as he wants, and that's not called a pact, it's called submission. That's what your partners do to you, but don't ask others to fall for what you fall for with your partners. On the other hand, they talk about state covenants. It is necessary to have little shame to ask for state pacts when the president has been invested in the hand of those who mourn, support and applaud the murderers like Parot; it is necessary to have little shame to come to this House to talk about state pacts when in Navarre an investiture pact has been made against the force that won the majority of the elections and they have been thrown into the hands of the Batasuns; it is necessary to have little shame to come here and talk about state pacts when it has been only days since they sat at the table of the Catalan submission with the independence that they want to destroy Spain; it is necessary to have little shame to come to talk about state pacts when the Spanish have been cornered in education, and it is necessary to have little shame and come to talk about state covenants when the other day they stood with hands clapping practically when the flag of Spain was withdrawn at an institutional press conference in the Generalitat. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] What state are you defending? You can't come here and ask for state covenants when you're sitting at a table with which you want to destroy, raze, pervert and degrade the state, it's just incompatible. On the day the Socialist Party returns to institutionality, that day we can talk about state covenants; in the meantime, you do whatever you want with your partners, but do not ask others to participate in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u55	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u56	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Gamarra, good staging. Almost hangs, if not because you have been blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary for three years. What we've seen this afternoon is called a propaganda shock. You already know that your proposal will not be approved, but that is how you whitewash your image and remain as guarantors of judicial independence and the division of powers. It is necessary to have the throes to come here today to present this proposal. Of course, the General Council of the Judiciary depends on the Socialist Party and the United Nations. We can, right?, just like the Constitutional Court or the Court of Auditors. Listening to her, it would seem that she was referring to that, but no, the reality is that it depends on you, and you don't unlock it because you are torpedoing, creating instability and, at the same time, ruling, yes, you are ruling from the courts, whether it be the courts, the Constitutional Court or the Court of Auditors. He asked us to look for statements from the State Attorney General at Internet rallies and recalled Mr. Sánchez's phrase: Who does the prosecution depend on? We can also remember phrases that you were saying, such as that the Prosecutor's Office should praise you, that you control the Supreme Court by the back door or, recently, last week, when your spokesman for justice, Mr Lopez, said that the majority of judges and magistrates agree with the People's Party. Well, yes, that's the danger to avoid. Look, I agree that Spain has a problem with judicial independence, but this problem is not new, no; it comes from that historical moment that so exalts you, the so-called Transition, where several powers and institutions of the State continued to be directed and controlled by the prophets of the dictatorship. It is true that forty years have passed and that these people are no longer or have retired, but their disciples, pupils, family sagas and even associations are still there. That footprint stays. That is why it is important to put an end to that control or politicization of those ultra sectors, even of Francoist origin, which remain embedded in the powers of the State, as is the judiciary in this case. We have to go to the root of the problem. We, from our independence point of view, agree that the way judges are elected is discussed and reformed, why not, we are in favour of it, but also to talk about the functions, because they cheat there. They forget and do not want to talk about the functions that the General Council of the Judiciary should have; they equate it with other European States, without entering the functions. Moreover, you keep repeating that Spain is one of the most decentralized states in the world. Let us see examples of the European environment, because there are Länder in Germany that have full control over the judiciary in their territory, or in the United Kingdom we have the case of Scotland. If Spain is one of the most decentralized States in the world, why not also address the role of nations and regions in the judiciary. Look - it has already been mentioned -, Mr Felipe González and his Government, in 1985, realized what he mentioned, that there were magistrates from the previous regime who were trying to make bed for them and rule from the judiciary. It is true that the 1985 amendment does not solve the problem. There is an interesting book, The failure of the judicial self-government, by the lawyer Diego Íñiguez, which shows how it has not been solved. It is true that to this day there is still that imprint that I mentioned. And how is the debate addressed? In its entirety, do not put patches and do not point to the Greek report. Of course, this report mentions it when they do not govern, because when they govern they do not care what it says; it is not what the Council of Europe says either, as happened this June, about Catalonia, the freedom of Catalan political prisoners, repression or the need for dialogue. They do not mention that; for that they do not like the Council of Europe. Moreover, Mrs Gamarra mentioned Commissioner Reynders' statements, but forgot that she said that the Council's election must be unblocked. That is, they use in their interest the declarations that a European institution can make, and not in their entirety. Today they bring this blackmail, because if this proposal is not approved, the Council will not be released. That is why I believe that drastic measures must be taken. Speaking clearly, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is true that today we will be voting against, as it could not otherwise be, this proposal, but it is also true that this has made it clear that during these years there has been a continuous pastry, an alternation or a judicial bipartisanship with the right-wing gentlemen to spread the cake. Moreover, it has become clear that work in this House is being negotiated between the government and the opposition for this distribution, and when there is a blockade, the debate on the road comes out. Look, we said it loud and clear. Since they are not going to resign and these gentlemen are going to continue to block - because they are doing well for instability and for torpedoing - we say to them that with a single article that is included in that Organic Law of the Judiciary one can cease all those people of the General Council of the Judiciary whose mandate has expired. Out of cars, out of wages, out of offices and you'll see how soon this matter is resolved. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u58	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way to three years of an unjustified blockade that the People's Party has been carrying out in the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and other constitutional bodies, instrumentalizing for its own benefit a guaranteed process of reinforced majority voting and generating a constitutional anomaly. On the other hand, these blockades are nothing new. We simply remember the one who suffered, two years old, also at the hands of the People's Party, in 2014, after the elections, after the 11-M attack, which against all odds gave absolute majority to the PSOE. They are blocks that always have a motivation of part, alien to the general interest constitutionally defined for these guarantee bodies. They are blockades based on sectarian and partisan interests among the major state parties, either through the lotification of the posts to be renewed or through biased vetoes, which is what is happening in these three years of People's Party blockade, formally covered in the slogan 'Let the judges choose the judges', as if now that did not happen at all. What is underlying is to give no basis to the Government of President Sánchez, adobed with the 'raca raca' of the illegitimacy of the coalition Government, mediated by the preaching of the purposes of its government partners, composed, as it is said, by communists, philotetras and separatists. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way, as someone has said, the non-renewal of the General Council and other bodies has, in our view, also become a political trophy for the People's Party which is not prepared to lose. Thus, at a time when public communication seemed imminent in agreement between the majority political parties for renewal, their more intransigent positions have prevented it, as apparently happened with the leaking of Mr. Cosidó's wapsapp, or as the causes that led, among other things, to the replacement of the spokeswoman of this House, or the same irrespirable political climate generated by opposition to the management of the various states of alarm by the Government. The case is that the interests of the general and institutional parties have always prevailed for one circumstance or another. And if, as I said, these blocking situations are not new, neither are the reforms of the legal regime of the Council as instruments of response, as well as that of 2013, which rested on the calculation presumably made by its promoter, the People's Party, that the majorities will remain different in Congress and in the Senate, or the recent one produced by the coalition parliamentary groups in the Government to, through the limitation of the powers of the Council when it exceeds its term of office, force indirectly, though not assured, its renewal. But, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, neither that nor this has achieved its objective, because the solution to these blocking situations must come from addressing the problem at its root, without shifting responsibility for those who maintain partisan sectarian criteria - as in the case before us - to those other political parties that do not maintain them, and without being able to transfer this controversy of a political nature to the one who has not created it, the General Council, through speeches which, attributing to it a political nature which is constitutionally lacking, qualify the exercise of its functions, once its mandate has expired, as a democratic anomaly, by not being renewed by a new elected Courts and the invested Governments, forgetting that the constitutional nature of the General Council is not that of a political body, but that of a guarantee body, according to all the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. That is why it does not require a kind of investiture for the exercise of its constitutional mandate, namely to ensure the independence of the judiciary through the administration of the Personal Status of Judges and Judges and, in particular, their promotion, inspection, disciplinary regime, selection and appointment. Ladies and gentlemen, President, I'm finishing up. I insist, as I have done on other occasions, that I do not believe that we have a problem with laws, but with the behaviour of the majority political parties. For our part, on the part of the Basque Parliamentary Group, of the Basque Nationalist Party, we consider that maintaining the parliamentary appointment from the list of elected members presented by the Council to the Chambers does not undermine the best guarantee of the independence of the judiciary, nitampoco is a constitutional requirement that the members of the Council's judicial authority be elected exclusively by judges and magistrates, both affirmations of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, we understand that the current model is the one that, as a counterweight, is most appropriate in a social and democratic State of the right to power that is constitutionally handed over to judges. Ladies and gentlemen, changes can be made to the current process, such as the one that was in place for a time to reduce the list of candidates put forward by the Council for election in this House - one third; three for each one that had to be chosen - and even other models can be proposed from different constitutional options. However, we will not give our support to the processing of this proposal at the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, because that would be as much as validating its obstructive work and the blackmail it is practicing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Bal Francés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u60	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Look, a year ago, 365 days ago, the majority of Podemos and PSOE that supports the government dropped the consideration of the bill presented by Citizens so that twelve members of the General Council of the Judiciary would be elected by their peers, by their peers, by the judges and by the magistrates. I mean, if you hadn't applied your roller, a year ago we could have had a law and we could have a General Council of the Judiciary today that wasn't in a situation of interinity. In addition, they do so against the general opinion of the whole of Europe and of all Spanish associations. Then, you allow yourself the luxury of giving us lessons, you want to give us lessons. They tell us that we are anti-democratic, that we have to comply with the Constitution; they tell us that we have been blocked for a thousand days. Well, we could already take a year with a well-established General Council of the Judiciary in accordance with the European guidelines. [[Applauds]] What lessons do you, lords of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, want to give to us when it turns out that Europe compares Spain with Poland on this issue; when you say that we are a vengeful side because we resort to pardons; when you offend the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, to the point that Carlos Lesmes has to come out at the opening of the judicial year saying that justice can never be against coexistence, why is it the foundation of the legal order, because coexistence can only be given within the rule of law? What I do recognize, of course, is their boldness. Its descarcation is directly proportional to its political weakness. When Mr Bolaños says that judges cannot elect judges, against what the European Commission says, against what the Court of Justice of the European Union says, against what the Greek Group says, against what the Venice Commission says, against what the European Association of Judges and Judges says, against what the Spanish Constitutional Court says and against what all the associations of judges and judges in Spain say. You are kamikaze drivers against the Constitution and against Europe, you circulate in the opposite direction. [[Applauds]] In addition, you have brought here the threat that you will change the majority to elect those Members who, thanks to the European Group of Citizens, have had to paralyse you because Commissioner Reynders has drawn your attention. You want to create chaos in such a way that you do not cover the posts that are vacant in the judiciary and then blame the opposition, this anti-democratic opposition that does not want to choose the direction of the General Council of the judiciary. But today we have a wonderful news: the People's Party believes in the depoliticization of the judiciary. [[Applauds]] Welcome, welcome. We've believed in this for years now. Let's see if it lasts you when you come to power, because then, when you come to power, you forget. And since today's evening seems to be religious in tone, I would dare to ask you when you saw the light, when the clouds opened and saw the light of depoliticization, when you fell off the horse, when you decided not to control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court by appointing the General Council of the Judiciary, when you did an act of contrition and fulfilled your penance. In 2011 you had an absolute majority and did not change the selection system of the General Council of the Judiciary, but you continued to take advantage of it, as you have been doing for thirty-five years, in a Persian market for change of chromosomes: these judges for you, these judges for me. You will now say that that was another PP; that's what Mr. Married with corruption says. Mr Sánchez also says so; it seems that there was a Mr Sánchez from before and a Mr Sánchez from now on. But, look, this from behind control of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which knows about its own corruption matters, is Mr. Married's time, you know? It is that in January 2021 Mr. Married had concluded an agreement with the Socialist Party to renew the General Council of the Judiciary and the only thing he discussed was that there he could not enter Podemos. [[Applauds]] He did not discuss whether or not the Council's members were selected politically; he said: I do not want the Lords of Podemos to select them. Of course, that's all. In Citizens we are people of good faith and we truly believe that you have come to this path, to this path of depoliticization. They're late, they're dragging their feet in, and then, they're making a rather sloppy bill, honestly, I have to tell them. Why? Because they want the struggle between parties in this House to be replaced by the struggle between judicial associations, conservatives and other progressives. Do not allow independent candidates to be nominated. Do you want me to tell you what the majority association of the judiciary is? That of the non-partners. Most judges and judges are not associated. Look at the bill presented by Citizens, which intended precisely to give voice to independent judges, with recognized authority and without ideological affinity, so that their peers could vote for them only with twenty-five endorsements. This is called freedom, this is called democracy. But these are the things we liberals believe in. Conservatives are one step back. You want freedom, but a little alone, lest we be asked to run for members of the General Council of the Judiciary. The same applies to the selection of Supreme Court judges. We propose a system of merit and capacity. The same is true of the election of the governing bodies of the National Court, of the High Court of Justice, of the provincial hearings, which we demand are also elected by election. Freedom and democracy. It also draws attention to the fact that you do not foresee any measures, as we do, to avoid the rotating doors of the judges who are engaged in politics. Well, of course, you have judges who are engaged in politics; of course, I understand that. The only thing we like about this project is, in fact, the election of the State Attorney General, but what happens is that we are at a time when, in fact, Commissioner Reynders must be listened to, we must prevent Spain from comparing itself with Poland, we must avoid those negative analyses of the rule of law report, and that is why we are going to help them to carry out this bill. And you, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, read the tweets of Pedro Sánchez of 2014, when he also advocated that judges be elected by judges. But I'm sure it was another Sanchez. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u61	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u62	Thank you very much, President. Let me begin my speech with a few words that an ex-People's Party minister said of infamous memory in this room: Send eggs for the People's Party to speak of judicial independence! Mr. Bal said it brilliantly. We shall vote no for your proposal, and we shall vote no for two reasons. Firstly, because we absolutely agree with the President-in-Office of the Madrid Community when I said: The PP has the majority support of the judicial career. He says so and we think so by the vast majority of citizens. That is why we do not believe in that reform that you are proposing. Secondly, because the two associations of judges representing one third of the judges account for 60% of the appointments and 44% of the judges who are not associated have only 30% of the representation. Therefore, little judicial independence seems to me to have to do with its reform. In addition, you come to talk to us about judicial independence, with what this councillor who was from the Constitutional Court said, skipping the passage through the Supreme Court - from the High Court to the Constitutional Court thanks to the People's Party - and the statements of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Cosidó. In short: Send eggs for the PP to tell us about judicial independence! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u64	Good afternoon. The truth, Mrs Gamarra, we believe that this is more of a short play that you and your group have done and that more than the public interest ends up looking for the popular interest, that of the People's Party basically, because the truth is that, with the position that you have had on this whole issue over time, the blockade I believe is attributable both to the PSOE and to the PP. Three years in office. I think it is also good that this remains in the Journal of Sessions: 1022 days in office has, to date, the General Council of the Judiciary. This is undoubtedly a symptom more of the weakness of this democracy, of the weakness of this State, because it is not a model issue, it is not a procedural issue, surely there could be better models, sure there could be better procedures, it is a State in which politics has failed, in which politics has broken. There is no way to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, nor is there any way to address the political conflicts that this State suffers. The solution you, the big parties in this Chamber, have is to throw the dishes at the head, but ours, without a doubt, is to do politics and seek solutions to people's problems. Associations are asked to do so, international agencies are asked to do so. The truth is that this does nothing but contribute to a dantesque spectacle in connection with the renewal of the judiciary, impartiality and judicial independence and, ultimately, with what so many citizens suffer and suffer when they come to the courts and courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u66	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week VOX presented an initiative that collected the ultra-rightist topics on the crimes of sedition and rebellion and on pardon. Today we have another message from the judicial right. It is now the PP who brings us here a reform of the system of appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has never wanted to change when they can and sell as what Europe and the judicial career demand. First of all, let us not be fooled, the problem is not that the People's Party is blocking the renewal of the council, the problem is that the Socialist Party refuses to address the substance of the issue, which is the lack of counterweights to a right-wing court dome that interferes with the activities of the other constitutional bodies, from the government itself to the autonomous parliaments. What is at stake - Mr Iñarritu has already said - is to put an end to judicial expansionism through a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which prevents the members of the Council from entrenching themselves when they have finished their term of office. It is not enough to limit their competences; if they do not leave voluntarily, they must be able to cease and deprive them of their salaries and prerogatives, because, otherwise, a situation incompatible with the constitutional principle that justice does not emanate from Lesmes and his friends, but from the people is being allowed to last. This is the way to put an end to the blockade: to force the unwilling vowels to comply with the Constitution, and to do so only absolute majority is required. Our sense of state - you know - is not for the Spanish state, but, to put an end to the dictatorship of togas and its pollution against rights and freedoms, here we are. We already know that, despite the much rhetoric about the blockade and the constitutional disloyalty of the PP, in fact you, gentlemen of the PSOE, are very comfortable being complicit in this blocking situation, because at the end of the day it reinforces the political scheme of bipartisanism. To finish, two questions. First of all, the fact that judges choose judges is false. In comparative law, it is customary for non-judicial bodies to appoint judges to avoid judicial isolationism. On the other hand, what the Spanish judiciary wants and what the legislative initiative that we are dealing with is not to guarantee the independence of judges in the exercise of their functions, but that the judiciary can impose its criterion on others without any limit and escape any kind of democratic control. The corporal. It seems to us a joke of bad taste that Mr Lesmes denounces the politicization of justice and that the People's Party should defend itself against this cause. Mr Lesmes holds the position of life leader of the judicial right, and therefore of the judiciary, for the eight years he spent as Director General of Justice in the Aznar governments, under the orders of ministers such as Marshal of Ghent, Acebes or Michavila. For Mr Lesmes, for Mr Enrique López, for Mr Cosidó, for Mrs Espejel, for Mr Catalá, the judicial right and the People's Party are a continuum in which we do not know where one thing ends and where the other begins. For all this, we will vote against an initiative that does not seek an independent judiciary, but sets by law a judicial autarchy to send everyone and not answer to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I have the feeling that this is like the day of the marmot, I do not know how many times we have had this debate here and the problem is still unresolved, and the image that is being given in Europe is pathetic. As a matter of fact, I will tell you that it is ironic that the People's Party gives so much credit to the reports and opinions of the European Commission, but then, when those opinions go in favour of the independence cause, oh, curiously, they do not exist or are false! Having said that, it seems to me to be an extreme hypocrisy for the PP to bring this initiative here. Apart from appearing, in a first appraisal, a Francoist law with an old and caspian wording, he proposed reforming the law to ensure the independence of judges and prosecutors. And, of course, coming from you, to whom the entire Prosecutor's Office fined and who were going to control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court through the back door, is a bit hypocritical. Do not be ridiculous to us when they are the reproach of Europe, also because of their flagrant cases of corruption. Because you know what? You remember much your dear monarch Juan Carlos I, the fugitive for corruption, who wanted to correct his corruptions and his maculae with prior notice of his friends of the Supreme Court and with the connivance of his lawyer. That has a name, find it in the Penal Code. And since they are unable, together with the Socialist Party, to agree on the renewal of constitutional bodies, they want to amend the law. And what a modification! A modification to continue to guarantee conservative hegemony and all his friends in the judicial dome, to continue to camp to their wide making and undoing at their will. Do I remind you of the scandals that precede the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and its President, Mr Lesmes? To whom we have asked countless times to appear before this House and make deaf ears because I am sure that his face will fall in shame. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, don't think you're better at teaching. The current government of the PSOE and the United We may be complicit in this, because we have been allowing this situation for more than two years without any agreement, and it is your responsibility because you are the ones who are ruling. Today's initiative, in addition to being a fake, is of great demagogy. In his explanatory statement he uses the reports and opinions of the Council of Europe, as well as those of the European Commission, in a partisan manner and at their convenience, manipulating the meaning of the reports. You're creating confusion between the citizens. Europe does not criticize the system of election of the judiciary; do not be mistaken, Europe criticizes the governing body of justice, that is, the General Council of the Judiciary, which is not the same as the governing body of the judiciary. In Europe that does make it different. The governing body of justice, the General Council of the Judiciary, must be representative of democracy, and this the PP will never understand - we have to assimilate it - because the judges are not justice, the judges are not the saviors of the homeland, but the justice is of the people and it is the people who must organize the system and choose who and how to direct it, as in any other power of a State. This proposal for a law is absolutely absurd because it does not solve the real problem, which is nothing other than how to bring democracy into an ill-designed, ill-formed and unduly representative organ of democratic plurality. That's the main problem. To this great problem we have to add another great drama that exists in Spain, which is the system of access to the judiciary, a shameful system to which only certain social classes or certain groups can access. [[Rumors]] We have an image of the judiciary and justice, which is the shame of Europe. For this reason, the reasons we have for leaving an oppressive and corrupt state remain. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It's just that the truth offends. For us, for the Republican Left, Europe will always be our ally and that is where we hope to be right. The independence of our country will be supported by Western and European democracies, and I must add here that we will neither seek nor conspire with those countries that are not allies of Europe. In short, as you are unable to reach agreements for the renewal of the bodies of both the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, and the Ombudsman, you use the legislative route to keep your own bodies in these preferential power forums. So, our vote will be definitely a no. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u70	President, ladies and gentlemen, a previous question: on the street they shout: Out of our neighborhoods, and, today, here in Congress: Out of witches. Our solidarity goes ahead for those who suffer this harassment, such as the one also suffered by journalist Cristina Pérez. Today it's them and tomorrow we can be either of us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you come to this House today presenting yourself as defenders of the Constitution, of the separation of powers and of the independence of judges and prosecutors is a harbinger, it is a great act of cynicism, and cynicism because you are the ones of 'the Prosecutor's Office', as his Minister Fernández Díaz, the Minister of the Cloacas, has said, now accused; cynicism because you have been trying to manoeuvre for years to remove uncomfortable judges, police and prosecutors when you have been reprimanded by a head prosecutor and an anti-corruption prosecutor for obstructing justice; cynicism because you use the judicial dome to succeed in colonizing and controlling key posts in the Supreme and Constitutional Court and, from there, beating and persecuting your political opponents, but above all trying to ensure impunity for their corruption crimes. Despite this, they have more than three hundred accused or convicted of corruption, six ministers and eight autonomous presidents. Imagine what would happen to you if you didn't have that whole army of like judges, just as you wouldn't exist, we would have to have built a prison just for the People's Party, because for you it's a matter of pure survival. When they are in power, they use the structures of the state, the sewers, to try to cover up their cases of corruption, to finance themselves illegally. You have been described by the courts and the police as a criminal organization and, when you lose power, you try to recover it by whatever means, also the illegitimate ones, like fake news, with lies, agitating hatred, agitating confrontation and abducting the constitutional organs, among them, the government of the judges. [[rumors]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know what the real threat to judicial independence is? You, the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You know what's going on? That, when you speak of judicial independence or depoliticizing justice, we are quickly led by Mr. Cosidó's SMS, the Senator of the People's Party, when he confessed to his mafioso modus operandi when he said that he was in control of the Second Chamber of the Supreme, which is the one that has to solve the twenty-seven cases that are still pending corruption; and we are led by the name of Mr. Lesmes, illegitimate president of that government, an Aznar man who spent eight years in that government; and we are led by names like Judge Hurtado, who you put in that room just a few months ago. Who's Judge Hurtado? For Judge Hurtado is the only judge who opposed the conviction of Gürtel, the only judge who opposed the prison of the woman in Bárcenas, sentenced to fourteen years. Does anyone know a person sentenced to fourteen years who is at liberty? That has to do with M. Rajoy's SMS to Bárcenas: Luis, we do what we can. That has to do with the People's Party lawyer's visit to jail so that Bárcenas wouldn't pull the blanket. And they come here to talk about depoliticization of justice and judicial independence! And to us come to mind names like Concepción Espejel - dear Concha, called her her friend Cospedal - who have put her at the summit of the National Audience to try to guarantee impunity for her corruption. The name of Francisco Pérez de los Cobos comes to mind. Who is Francisco Pérez dellos Cobos, apart from the brother of the lieutenant colonel who acted unlawfully against this government? Well, he's a member of your party that you put as president of the Constitutional Court. What a depoliticization of justice! You speak today of rotating doors, and I am led by Enrique López, a judge who is dedicated to politics, whom you when you were a judge held to the fullest, even in the Constitutional Court, had to resign when you were hunted for drunk driving and now you have rescued him as a spokesman for justice and last week gave us a very clear message when he said that the control of the judges was of the People's Party. The message was very clear to all judges: who moves from the photo already knows what to stick to. And if not, let them tell Pablo Ruz, that after ordering the entry and registration of the headquarters of the People's Party in Genoa was removed by Lesmes and is now in a court of the extraradio of Madrid. O'Let them tell Ricardo de Prada, vetoed by you because he was rapporteur of the Gürtel sentence. Therefore, when you speak of judicial independence and the depoliticization of justice, you are not credible. Do you really know what the problem of judicial independence is in this country? You, the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, do you imagine a government in office that continues to rule against dissolving itself after three years with the expired mandate and against the verdict of the ballot box? What would we say? We would say that it is an illegitimate government, that it is a coup against democracy or that it is a rebellion against the constitutional order. For that does not happen in a country far from Africa, that happens here today with its blackmail that today they try to bring here to vote. They always bring us changing conditions. Before the problem was United We can, now the problem is the modification of the model of judicial choice. So what does the renewal of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman have to do? That is not judicial power and there too they refuse to renew those constitutional bodies democratically. You were already carrying that proposal on the 2011 election program that you are bringing today. Why didn't they? Because you say one thing when you're in opposition and you do the opposite when you're in government. But it's worse than the citizen spokesperson said when he said that before. It's not that they don't do what they say, it's that they do the opposite. You have carried out a reform to further politicise the government of the judges, to give full control to the Members of the People's Party and Mr Lesmes and today we come here to talk about Europe, you who care about a Europe cumin and who whenever pronouncements come out from Europe strongly oppose, even some propose to leave the European Union, and today it is amazing to hear you speak about Europe. Besides, it's not true. What the Commissioner for Justice says is that before any reform of the model is put in place, the current model must be applied. That's what the Commissioner of Justice says. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know what the real problem of judicial independence in Spain is? You, the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u72	With venial, Mr. President. I didn't know witch status deserved to the left...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez García, I would ask you to stick to the point and to continue the intervention on the basis of what we are discussing. [[Rumors]] Please, please, you and everyone present, let us not open any more debates, let us not have any more tension. [[Rumors]] Please continue, I beg you, Mr. Sánchez García. I give the floor, please continue, on the basis of the matter we are dealing with. Don't make me take her word for it again, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u74	Mr President, Mr Asens has referred to this issue and you have not said anything to him or called him to order. [[Applauds.-Protests]] With regard to this item on the agenda, Mr Asens has also said far more serious things than calling a Member of Parliament a witch or a witch, especially for those Members raised in Inquisition in the 21st century. He said the People's Party deserves a prison for him. You have also said that you regard Mr Pérez de los Cobos politically in part and I do not know how many other things, all of them damaging to the reputation of the recipients of the comments, without having been the object of admonition or observation on your part, Mr President. [[Applauds]] The bill that is being debated today is to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and ensure the impartiality of the prosecutor's office, and is promoted by the People's Party. On the first, on the Judicial Power, the General Council of the Judiciary and its mode of election starts from the fact that this model of government of the judiciary was introduced into the Constitution, probably with error, because in 1978 that experience - which is very limited in comparative law, both in law and in its practical application - was already a failed experience essentially in the two countries to which it was modelled, Italy and France, because in them it was observed - especially in Italy - what has also been called today the lotification, that is, the distribution of vowels according to their ideology, by intervention of the political parties directly or indirectly. In addition, the Constituent, in Article 127.1, established professional associations of the judiciary as compensation - it is reported, for parliamentary debates in the discussion of the constitutional process - for the prohibition of membership in political parties of judges and magistrates. These associations, in the end - it is sad to say - have become in most of their actions a leash of transmission of political parties. There is one right-winger, who usually obeys the People's Party; another centre, who usually obeys who, who is in the centre, and another left-winger, who obeys socialists, communists and others. Moreover - and it is also sad to say - it serves as a way to place its own members in high positions of the judiciary. To this end, I recall - and this has also been said today - that the number of judges and judges affiliated with these associations does not reach 55%, so this indicates the little enthusiasm that this figure has aroused in the Spanish judiciary, which could have been well-intentioned, but whose application to me does not seem to have been satisfactory, and I regret it. This bill can be well-intentioned, we do not say no, but it is insufficient even for what I have just said. There is no serious discussion here about the desirability of maintaining a General Council of the Judiciary. It is true that it requires constitutional reform, but I say that this is very scarce in Western nations, and that I am not told what is always said on this issue: and, then, how are judges appointed if there is no advice? They are named as they are named in Germany, as they are named in France and in so many other nations of Europe. They are regularly appointed by the Minister of Justice, but according to regulated, non-discretionary criteria. That's the problem. The General Council of the Judiciary, in addition to its own politicization for its composition through the designs of the political parties, appoints the high judges of the Spanish judiciary, starting with the Supreme Court and following by many chamber presidents, according to discretionary criteria. It is true that there is a qualification commission, but the merits are assessed as they are assessed. What I'm saying is not in any way exaggerated by me. There is a scandal in Spain about this issue that no country in Europe knows about, and it is that the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court has declared these appointments null and void on several occasions. [[Applauds]] How is it possible that in a situation like this no one will propose a reform of appointments to banish the discretion of access to high offices of the Spanish judiciary? How is that possible? Well, the People's Party doesn't think so. And what does the People's Party propose? That the appointment be on the basis of a three-fifth majority of the council. Doña Cuca, and what else does this give us, if in the end the council is appointed not by three fifths, but by five fifths, by deputies appointed by the political parties or by the judiciary in the judicial turn, as you claim, to reform the Organic Law of 1985, in the end that politicization is transferred to the organs that impart justice, not to the council. It is even more serious, it is transferred to the organs that provide justice. There is no need to say what is the relevance in the composition of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which knows the criminal prosecution you already imagine of: the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Members of Parliament, etc. [[Applauds]] Then it is not the parties that are outside the composition of that room. Not to mention the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court. It seems to us, therefore, frankly insufficient. Here only VOX poses things at their root; unfortunately, the People's Party persists in these insufficient patches. On the composition of the Council itself, we already know what the European Commission has said, but why are we going to be surprised? We are faced with a totalitarian government that seeks to destroy the independence of the judiciary through the composition of the council. And because he can't do anything that goes beyond that. The People's Party therefore shows itself to be scarce also in this proposal, as is shown by the proposed amendment of the prosecutor's office; that of the quarantine of ten years which also applies to the council members, that those who have held a political position of trust in previous years cannot be members of the council, cannot be the general prosecutor of the state, etc.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u75	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. [[Mr Sánchez García speaks words that are not perceived.-Protests.-Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]] Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u76	Thank you very much, President. I want my first words this afternoon to be of affection, strength and encouragement to the whole island of La Palma and to all its inhabitants. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Gamarra, the truth is, listening to her, I had to rub my eyes. I asked my roommate if what you were saying was so or I was wrong, because you have spent an afternoon being constitutionally immeasurable to democratic dissidents. For the record! They said: we are aiming for democratic dissent, we are moving away from democracy because we do not agree with the system. It is important, Mrs Gamarra: in one afternoon, from constitutional submission to democratic dissent. Gentlemen of the PP, it's been 36 months in the opposition and 36 months in the blockade, because that's how you understand the opposition and that's how you understand the rule of law. When I'm in the opposition, it depends on the bench where I sit, I comply or I don't comply with the law, and now I don't comply with the law. And since they don't comply with the law, we change it. This is a very classic thing on the right of this country: I don't like the law, the change because I won't comply. They've been vetoed for 36 months. First, it vetoes the political parties, for something you select who has to sit down to dialogue; then, I veto the judges, and finally, I veto the system itself. Really, Mrs. Gamarra, is that the responsibility of a state party like yours? Is that the position that the first opposition party in this country has to take? Is that how you understand that this is how the constitutional organs of a rule of law are set up, Mrs Gamarra? Well, you must say, comparing it with the Republic in Rome: we violate the law so as not to be slaves to its fulfillment. Look at you, Mrs Gamarra, precisely to comply with the law in a rule of law is what makes us free; that is what makes us free in a rule of law: to comply with the law, Mrs Gamarra. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: State of alarm!]] What do the judges ask? And what does Europe ask for? Democratic normality, that the constitutional bodies be configured, as stated in the Constitution and as stated in the law. That calls for Europe, Mrs Gamarra. Look at the strangest thing, that there is democratic normality in a rule of law of a democracy - you have described it and I agree with you - full of the most consolidated in the world. Of course that is what Europe is asking for, Mrs Gamarra! And they go beyond that, they accuse the government of the politicized judges, of the partisans. And it stopped me from politicizing, because I'm very drawn to it, Mr. Bal, gentlemen of the right, that you speak of depoliticizing. What is depoliticizing, Mrs. Gamarra, Mr. Bal and gentlemen of VOX? What is depoliticizing? Is depoliticizing delegitimizing this House, which has popular sovereignty? Is it depoliticizing to take away the voice of this House and take away the voice of the people? Is that depoliticizing? Why when you don't rule you always talk about depoliticizing? You represent the Spanish people, that is the balance of powers. Look, this isn't a war between politicians and judges. Don't let them fool you! This is not a war between politicians and judges. This Chamber elects from among the judges proposed by the judges, this Chamber appoints the judges proposed by the judges. Don't make any more traps, Mrs. Gamarra; don't make any more traps. Moreover, they do so with a tremendous lack of rigour, because they fail to comply with a constitutional shield. But what does article 1.2 of the Constitution, 9.3 of the principle of legality or 117 say? Of course, justice emanates from the people! Mr. Bal, what does it mean that justice emanates from the people? What does it mean that the powers of the state emanate from the people? That the people don't have to hear it? Does it mean that we make a concentrated, vertical, controlled organ, without the people intervening? So tell the citizens, tell them that, Mrs Gamarra and Mr Bal, the citizens, tell them that they do not want to rely on the people in a rule of law and full democracy, giving it to the citizens. And, of course, let's go further, because in the end you have a vision - I would be worried if I were a judge or a magistrate after what I've heard here this afternoon - about independence and limited, narrow and very poor impartiality. Do you really believe, if we ask each of the judges and magistrates of this country when they exercise their judicial role in every court of law, in every provincial hearing, in the National Court, in the Supreme Court, that they do not feel impartial? Do you really believe that, bearing in mind that the soul of the independence of justice is impartiality, if we ask each judge, you do not feel impartial and free of guardianship? Really not, Mrs. Gamarra? Is that what you think? Is that how you think you are the judges and magistrates of this country? Is that the vision of justice? That is not the vision of justice that we must have, Mrs Gamarra, and less a state party like yours. Look, in Spain, a lot of things are needed in the judicial system, because citizens approach justice day by day. Justice is a power of the State, but it is also an essential public service that we use every day. We approach to be heard, to respect our rights and freedoms, and we do so by believing in those judges and those judges. And you, as representatives of those citizens, must set an example of believing in that independence and impartiality. What a pity for some of the interventions I have heard from this stand! What a pity for citizens who rely day by day on an essential public justice service in our country!Of course we need means, closeness, efficiency and effectiveness in the justice system! Let's work on that. You'll find us there, Mrs. Gamarra. In the vetoes, in the non-compliances and in the democratic dissent, of course, they will have us in front of them. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u78	We move on to the agenda item on non-law proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group concerning the reprobation and dismissal of the Ministers of Justice and Defence and the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in mid-July, and without warning, Pedro Sánchez announced a profound government crisis. Monclovita propaganda tried to make it believe that it was a substantial restructuring, a conclusive turn towards the radicalism that had defined government action until then. But, on the one hand, Pedro Sánchez liquidated and left behind seven of his most loyal ministers and maintained profiles that the related press defined as moderate, and, on the other, incorporated new, less well-known ministers and, therefore, unable to generate rejection. Some even came to speak of a new era, of a government changing the way, of a Sanchez willing to correct his misdeeds. However, we did not take a week to find out that this was the umpteenth fraud of a president riding on the backs of deception. Four days after that government crisis, the Constitutional Court ruled to give VOX the reason for the unconstitutionality appeal against the royal decree declaring the first state of alarm - not to confuse with the second, which will also arrive -. We had to wait a year, a year and many unfair accusations, but, once again, there was only VOX left. Finally, the Constitutional Council made a statement and, in doing so, confirmed what this parliamentary group had been denouncing from the beginning. The most severe confinement of all the countries of the European Union - which did not, by the way, prevent our country from also being the most hit by the Chinese virus - had led to an abuse of our rule of law. The Constitutional Court, in defence of our Constitution, declared that Pedro Sánchez had illegally confined us. [[Applauds]] It also warned against the abuse of the figure of the state of alarm to suspend the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. He also warned of the use of this legal avenue to circumvent the control of this House. The judges denounced intolerable pressure on the part of the then Vice-President of the Government, but finally the law prevailed and the Constitutional issued a clear ruling that the Government of Pedro Sánchez had carried out the greatest violation of the rights and freedoms of the Spanish in democracy. Only one decent path remained: the immediate resignation of the Government and the call for elections. As we know, Pedro Sánchez didn't do it. Once again, he chose the path of indignity. His answer was not to apologize to the Spaniards and leave, what he should have done. He made a mistake and decided to double his invitation to democracy. Nothing would stop them. Many ministers, instead of rectifying - even before knowing the final text of the judgment - launched an unprecedented offensive against the body where the ultimate guarantee of the rights of the Spaniards resides, because let us not forget that the Constitutional Court is the supreme interpreter of the Constitution. It is and must be subject only to the Constitution and the law, and while ensuring that all legal norms are brought into line with the Constitution, it is the guarantee of the functioning of the rule of law. With its statements, the Government made it clear that it was not going to abandon sectarianism, that it was continuing its path nowhere and that it was going to continue to leap every red line whose respect is to safeguard democracy. The list of ministers who launched attacks on the Constitutional Court is a comprehensive list. Some, like Ione Belarus, came to say barbarities such as: In Spain the opposition to the government is being exercised by the judges. This is said by the Minister of the Government of Spain. We can attribute it to his encyclopedic ignorance. [[Applauds]] But among some of them there was one more aggravating factor, among some ministers there was the aggravating factor in their status as jurists. They cannot claim ignorance, and that makes their statements particularly serious. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, for them today we call for their reprobation or/and their immediate dismissal. Margarita Robles, Minister of Defence - who is also a judge of the Supreme Court - described the arguments of the ruling declaring illegal government action as doctrinal elucubrations. Pilar Llop - Minister of Justice, a law graduate and magistrate - was not prevented from charging the Constitutional Court and trying to delegitimize the judgement; a very serious fact given that, as the head of the Ministry of Justice, his mission is precisely to defend judicial independence, preserving all external interference and, in particular, any political interference. [[Applauds]] And the Minister of the Presidency, Félix Bolaños - lawyer, planner of the great legal trophies of this government - took one step further. Instead of asking for forgiveness, he refused to accept the sentence and continued to claim that he had done the right thing. He was primarily responsible for this unconstitutional state of alarm and subsequent extensions, as he was also responsible for the illegal inclusion of Pablo Iglesias in the CNI and for pardons, also illegal, and he cannot follow another minute in this government. Ladies and gentlemen, there are limits in a rule of law, there are red lines, borders that can never be crossed. Respect for the independence of the judiciary in the exercise of its functions is one of the main ones, because doing so causes extreme damage to the pillars of our democracy. Even Rubalcaba himself warned Pedro Sánchez and said: The argument I know, we will sit with them and they will end up being good. But, hey, there's a chance to sit with them and end up being bad. And that's how it's happening. At first the attacks were directed by the then vice president Pablo Iglesias and the mob of Podemos; then they would come more, more and more ferocious. We have come to such a point that 2500 judges have had to go to the European institutions in defence of the separation of powers, a real shame for a serious nation like Spain, and today we have a government that has made the confrontation with the judiciary a sign of identity. We have three jurist ministers attacking judicial independence and, therefore, today, ladies and gentlemen, we have before you a serious decision and in your hands a huge responsibility. With your support for the state of alarm, you became complicit in the establishment of an undercover state of emergency that trampled on the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. Now you can rectify. In the face of systematic attacks on the Constitutional Court, they do not remain impassioned, they respect the oath they made, they support this initiative, they exercise control over the government to which they are obliged in full anti-democratic drift, because that is why the Spaniards chose us and we will not stop doing it, do what you do, because, once again, only VOX remains. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u80	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Today, we are discussing the VOX proposal for the reprobation of three government ministers as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court that declared the state of alarm unconstitutional by a pandemic in which more than 100,000 compatriots have died. Spain, like the rest of the countries in our environment - or almost all the countries in our reasonable environment; Brazil, for example, did not - had to confine the population because it was the only way, the only medicine against the virus. And do you know who were the first two political parties to ask the government to declare the state of alarm and to confine themselves to preventing the pandemic? They were Citizens and VOX. On March 10, 2020, Mr Abascal asked for the state of alarm, asked for the confinement and asked for resignations in Mrs Carmen Calvo's government because he decreed the state of alarm? No, for not setting a state of alarm. This, in short, is the greatest of populism and demagogy. We were trying to save lives, we were trying to save lives, and now we're trying to save jobs; others are just trying to do marketing and political performance. In those days of confusion, the whole House - there was no vote against for the approval of the alarm state - the whole House supported the alarm state. But the gentlemen of VOX are more interested in having a bold weapon in the form of a ruling of the Constitutional Court against the Government than in having for the future legal certainty of what to do when a situation as unprecedented as a pandemic occurs. And after approving with their votes the state of alarm, the first state of alarm, they resorted to it; and then, they voted against; and then, they promoted caceroladas; and then, they made demonstrations on the streets; and then, they said that this was a thread and that the confinement was no longer needed, that it could go out on the street, pollute everyone, and that people would die because this virus was radically denied, and then, in the second and third wave, they complained that the Government did not provide legal protection for the autonomous communities to be able to establish restrictions. It seems to me that demagogy and populism are words that are great. I'd rather talk about political surrealism, because there's no one who understands them. We can, through Mr Echenique, with this ruling of the Constitutional Court, go out to say that the Constitutional Court seems to be that what he wanted was to kill people with this of declaring the state of alarm unconstitutional. No, he didn't want to kill people; he said that confinement was the right measure, but that the legal perch was not the right one, and if he had handed down the sentence in time, we would have declared the state of emergency and that's it. The feeling is that no one in this House has read the sentence. Everyone talks about hearing and making statements anyway. We, as a liberal party, have only one statement to make: we are happy with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, we abide by it. Why? Because it gives us security, because we already know in the future what to do in a situation as problematic as this one we live in, in such a difficult situation, where the sentence comes out by six to five votes, where Law 4/1981 says that the state of alarm is designed for the epidemic, but the Constitutional Court says that we have to choose the system that offers greater guarantees, which is the state of emergency. The People's Party - I remember Mr. Married up here - said that there was a need for a pandemic law, that fundamental rights could be limited by ordinary law, and that the executive could limit fundamental rights without the need for constitutional control. I told Mrs Gamarra here that, of course, her pandemic law would last five seconds in the Constitutional Court. And, indeed, he was right, the Constitutional Court has opted for a system of greater guarantees. If the gentlemen of VOX at that time had been told by the Government: Let us choose the state of emergency, what would they have said? They would also have said that no, that not because not, that not everything, that to the social-communist government, illegitimate, Bolivarian, not everything, not everything! Mrs Llop, of course, was very unfortunate in the criticism; Mrs Robles was very unfortunate in the criticism; Mr Bolaños was technical secretary general of the Ministry of the Presidency and could hardly declare the state of alarm. The problem is that the Government is still not doing its duty, we are still not adapting Law 4/1981 to the epidemic situation, despite the fact that citizens, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court have requested it several times. They still don't do their homework. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u82	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would never have thought that Mr Espinosa de los Monteros or VOX were Marxists, but Marxists of Groucho, not Carlos, because they say one thing and do the opposite. Anyway, reprimanding, dismissing... If they could, they would reprimand us and destroy us all, and indeed, as Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has said, with that name so overwhelming that it has, only VOX would remain in this room, only VOX would remain, if they could. Look, if you had to blame someone in this room today, it's that deputy who's on the way out, Mr. José María Sánchez, for being rude, rude, for, for his disrespectful and insolent attitude with the president. [[Chabacan]] [[Rumors.-Applause.- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: The change of criteria is intolerable. You apply the Rules with equality for all]] A judge on leave, he's a judge on leave. If you have to judge me this judge, we're stuck! [[The rumors continue.- Mr Sánchez García leaves his seat]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u84	Your Honor, finish, please. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u85	Man, now he's leaving. Now he's leaving. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u86	Finish, your time is running out. [[Rumors.-Mr Sánchez García speaks with Mr Vice-President]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u87	If a Member who calls another Member a witch is not a rude one, what is it? [[Rumors]] A congressman who calls another congressman a witch, what is it? Curseful, rude...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u88	Your time is up, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Baldoví, please withdraw the insults to Mr. Sánchez, please. [[Several Members: Now? Now?-Mr.Baldovi Roda: I have not insulted. Did I insult you?]] Remove the insults to Mr. Sánchez, please. [[Baldoví Roda: He has insulted this House. I didn't take them off.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Baldoví, withdraw the insults. Remove the insults you have uttered to Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr Baldoví Roda: And if you want to throw me out, I'm going without a problem.- Various Members: Do you throw you out or not, Mr President?- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simón: It's a shame, a shame how you perceive the sitting, Mr President.]] They are withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. We continue with the session. [[Rumors]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[The Rumors Continue]] Mr Bel has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to make an absolutely calm intervention, without the courage to provoke anyone, without the need to make a video to hang on Twitter, as will some of you who have a certain hobby, and in any case, I rise to this rostrum to reveal a somewhat peculiar situation. I am not going to hurt you what Mr Bal told you that they first asked for the state of alarm and then they said they did not want the state of alarm, that they first asked for the resignation for not putting the state of alarm and then they asked for the resignation for putting the state of alarm. But I will show you that you are asking the ministers to respect the Constitutional Court because it is a constitutional institution and what you have shown throughout the afternoon - I would dare say that throughout the whole legislature - is that you have absolutely no respect for any constitutional body, starting with this House and continuing with the presidency of this House and the Bureau of this House. [[Applauds]] Don't look who's applauding. They seem to be taking reprisals against those who have been applauding. That too is a lack of constitutional respect. [[Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon makes negative signs]] Yeah, don't get nervous. I'm telling you politely, quietly, not insulting anyone, but putting them in front of a mirror; a mirror in which you don't want to see yourself because your mirror is that these 350 deputies were from VOX. And that was already happening at some time, but in the present times you must respect democracy. Just like any of us respect the 52 deputies of VOX... [[Rumors]] Mr President, I know you have a subject with these gentlemen, but can't you listen?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u91	I'm trying to keep going.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u92	Yeah, yeah, I've stopped her time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u93	I've got 46 seconds left, haven't I? 3 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u94	One second, I haven't given you time. He's got a little more than 46 seconds left. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u95	46 seconds, I'm not gonna exhaust them. If later you do not agree, go up to this rostrum and say you do not agree or make statements to the press, but listen because this is the house of speaking, but also the house of listening and you have nothing clear about listening, neither here nor in any other institution. Therefore, we are not going to fall into the dynamics of reprimanding a minister because when he was not a minister he was the intellectual and material author of a royal decree-law that approves the government and that validates this House also with his vote. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u96	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez and Mr García have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. No legislative proposal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the reprobation and dismissal of the Ministers of Justice, Defence and the Minister of the Presidency. Reprobation and dismissal, two words, two mechanisms, two very legitimate terms, but, once again, used by the extreme right-wing group of the House to destroy. Then we'll get into the matter of destroying. I am surprised that your group presents this GNP because several Members of the extreme right often boast that they are lawyers, lawyers and lawyers, who have a high level of training. It is not shown in this GNP. It doesn't show. I don't see him anywhere. Why? Because there is no political basis in all this GNP. In fact, it's hard for me to assess politically because you don't have it. The summary would be that the extreme right of the House has had a rabies, a hoax because it has said that and the other said the other, in reference to statements by the ministers and ministers mentioned. I repeat, it is a hoax and a rabies without a political basis that all he wants and intends to do is destabilize, once again, the foundations of politics. I'll give you an example. The Minister of Defence and I - I prefer her, of course, because since I am a spokesperson for the Defence Commission it is my concern - surely we have many differences, many. In fact, we certainly have more differences than the minister herself should have with the PNL propellant. But we are also aware that before we fail or call for dismissal, we must seek a sound and political basis for calling for such a measure. We, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, have repeatedly called for the reprobation of the Minister of Defence, but whenever there is a solid political weight and basis; for example, I will tell you three points: one, for the commercial practices of armaments with non-democratic countries; two, for the amount of resources that are allocated to Defence through different programs of the other ministries, and, three, for continuing to defend a king emeritus escaped from justice. That's a reason to reprimand and dismiss someone, I'm telling you in case you want to point them at them, basically. [[applause]] The word destruction, which is how I have started my speech, is the clear example of the objective that the extreme right-wing group of the House has: the destruction of everything that has to do with any democracy, either for everything they propose and present, or for everything they torpedo from other groups; that is, VOX tries to destroy an already questioned democracy, but, look!, then the coups are us. Watch out! [[Applauds]] Last week there was talk in this Chamber of the crime of hatred, which is precisely what the extreme right-wing fascist group of the House is promoting. Promoting racism, machism and xenophobia is unconstitutional, as are the principles of fascism represented by VOX. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. They promote hatred in this state and, if we don't stop them, they will continue to do so, taking us to the time of the Middle Ages. [[Protests]] And when I say that we have to stop them, I mean that we have to stop them for real, because it is no use for some who say that they do not share many things that defend the extreme right of the House then agree with them without any kind of relief or shame, such as, for example, in the Community of Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, VOX is not democracy, VOX is not freedom, VOX is not equality. The extreme right of the House is the personification of evil, and that must be made very clear here; very clear. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] And they show it with acts like today's, because it is a real shame not only what their colleague Sánchez has done, but what Mrs Olona here in the hallway has done. That's a shame, too. And I'll tell you one thing: they're not going to happen. They're not gonna happen! You know why? Because the only thing they've been through is a grizzly-sulphur plague that smells from here. [[Protests]] I tell you one last thing: in the end, we will be the independenceists, the republican people and the people of the left who will return them to the place where they should never have left, which is the political and social irrelevant of this state. [[A Member of Parliament: Golpists!]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no rule in Spain that prevents judgements from being evaluated or criticized. To punish criticism and discrepancy is to retreat to the times of the dictatorship. In fact, VOX criticizes and attacks lawsuits assiduously, and they also use justice whenever they are interested. Look, in December 2020, Ms. Olona accused the Constitutional Court of being an accomplice to an alleged coup d'état by the government. He accused the court of abandoning the Spanish people and the magistrates of duty to the parties. In December of that year, VOX had filed eleven appeals with the Constitutional Court to try to win in a court, which they say is politicized, which they do not win in Parliament. If the Constitutional Court was politicized in December 2020 and has not changed its composition, it will remain so today. Why, now whose dictate does he act? VOX dictation, exactly? Abascal described the Supreme's sentence on the process of shame for Spain and as very wrong. He attacked the Supreme because he was unable - he said - to defend constitutional order and national sovereignty. And Ortega Smith dismissed that sentence as a very serious miscarriage of justice. They are much harsher criticisms than those made by the ministers you today reproach. It is the double measuring rod of the usual democracy of the young men of VOX. On the occasion of the decisions on the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Union, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros was also at ease. He said it was a stick for Spain, an attack on national sovereignty and a lack of loyalty of the European institutions. Also, Mr Abascal said that the Court of Justice of the European Union gives oxygen to the coups, and accused him of questioning national sovereignty. But you also fail to comply with the constitutional obligation to cooperate in the enforcement of what has been decided by the courts every time you do not like a judgment. In May, the High Court of Justice of Andalusia banned them from a rally in Ceuta. You disobey the sentence and call the rally. As they are very intelligent they say it was a press conference on the street to which their followers could turn. Now they demand others not to do what you claim to do for yourself. On 14 July, Congressman Pedro Fernández said that respect for judicial decisions with which the parties can make their strictly political interpretation of them is compatible. Two days later, VOX records this GNP, in which they defend exactly the opposite. The use and manipulation of justice for you is part of your policy of attacking a democracy that you despise. In March 2020, four days before the statement of the state of alarm, you call for the halting of all - all - the activities of this House, but when nine days later the Bureau of Parliament approves suspending only the deadlines for the processing of initiatives, they resort to the Constitutional and call it kidnapping. If that was a kidnapping, then what was it about you? A measure that suspended less parliamentary activity than you had previously demanded. And you challenge to the Constitutional the state of alarm that you voted in favour, which now calls Mr Espinosa de los Monteros the greatest violation of democracy's rights. You voted for it. [[Denials by Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon]] United We can also disagree with the Constitutional Court's ruling on the state of alarm. We believe that this is a legally incorrect solution; it creates a new problem without solving the pre-existing problem. It makes it impossible to implement adequate health measures to end a pandemic. Facing health catastrophes with a state of emergency is a legal mistake. The Constitution limits this state of emergency to 60 days; insufficient to combat a pandemic. And, moreover, it is a path that harms democracy because it allows for the suspension of countless fundamental rights. One Constitutional judge in his particular vote said: It is difficult not to feel some intellectual fatigue in the face of the drift of the court. It's been a thousand days with the right-wings entangled in a constitutional contempt attitude. If they continue to block the renewal of constitutional bodies, the Constitutional will continue with its mandate partially expired and damaged by an inevitable lack of legitimacy. They are doing irreparable damage to the constitutional organs and our democracy. And now they can't say that judges choose judges, because the constitutional blockade has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u99	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u100	We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u101	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u102	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no justification for the government's arrogance towards the rest of the state's powers. Democracy has as its fundamental pillar the division of powers and the formal and real independence for its exercise. The Government's criticism of the ruling we have heard - because it was not on an individual basis but as a Government and from the seat of the Government - constituted an irresponsible interference with the independence of the Constitutional Court, a clear attempt to intimidate judges and a failure to comply with the ruling. The previous item on the agenda of this plenary session discussed an initiative of the People's Party with the aim of further shielding the independence of the judiciary and advancing towards a more mature democracy, without interference from the executive and legislative powers in the judiciary. We firmly believe that independent justice, the means and the speed of judicial proceedings are necessary for the free life of citizens. Of course, in Spain we have experienced, as in the rest of the world, an extraordinary situation, enormously hard and with very painful consequences, but Parliament could not be closed down, the President had to be accountable, the freedoms and rights of the Spaniards were sacred and a national law had to be passed to deal with the pandemic and to give instruments to the authorities in a unitary, coordinated and legally covered manner, and we repeat it constantly to the Government. However, the Government attempted to draw political and electoral revenue from the pandemic. The president assumed all the powers when he was interested, suspended parliamentary activity, interrupted television broadcasts to launch his marketing-filled sufflamas, attacked those who did not think like him, the opposition, the autonomous communities, the press. It was placed behind a plasma that it had previously hated and, while Spain was going to the health, economic and social tail van. And when the situation got complicated, it was the opposition, in Brussels, the armed master's fault. And the competencies were, of course, of the autonomous communities. The legal framework has been violated; parliamentary control and internal controls have been avoided in decision-making and economic control, and now, when the Constitutional Court tells them that they violate the Constitution, what attitude does the Government take? Rectify and apologize? No; criticize and disallow. These attacks by the Government on the judiciary are not new. We cannot forget the attacks on the Supreme Court for opposing pardons to those convicted of sedition and embezzlement; according to the Government, judges sought revenge and not justice. And the Minister of Justice says that she respects and does not share the sentence, and so far I can understand it, but then she continues to say that the Government did it well, that they do not intend to rectify or apologize, that the vote was illegitimate because it was not unanimous and she aligns herself with the minority, and that the Government, if it is Sánchez's, is above the Constitutional. The Government does not accept freedom or the separation of powers; it does not respect either the judiciary or parliament, it must do what it wants or disqualify them. It has huge authoritarian tics that come to intimidate. Has there not been any change from the recent ministers because of a timid questioning of any action? They do not want dialogue and agreements, but rather the submission of the rest of the parties and of society, with the exception of separatism, which has them totally engaged. The Minister of Defence, who is always looking for a certain balance, compared the sentence with an academic article and thus intended to disqualify the content of it. What's the price to follow in the blue bank? The new Minister of the Presidency, Mr Bolaños, is attributed the legal authority of the decree-laws and the legal framework of the pandemic. It does not seem that it should be a good letter of presentation to be a minister now, except that he was blacking out the authoritarian desires, seeking electoral revenues, which the President of the Government asked him, who is solely responsible for the legal misguidedness and who must assume political responsibilities, at least asking for forgiveness for having missed the constitutional framework and having launched that campaign against the sentence, a campaign against the judiciary. And what is the government going to do about the next sentences? I leave the question here. Ladies and gentlemen, it's over. The Government must reverse its authoritarian ways by respecting the separation of powers and also stop obstructing the exercise of the rights and duties of parliamentarians by ceasing their continued interference with the legislative power. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u103	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by recalling those words of former President Zapatero who said that to every insult a proposal, to every disqualification an idea and to every exaggeration a smile, comrades and companions. [[Applauds]] Today, the VOX Parliamentary Group brings us an initiative to reprimand three ministers. The reason is that our ministers answered journalistic questions about the ruling of the Constitutional Court, in the case of the ministers; in the case of the minister, we talked about the collaboration in the elaboration of the decree of the state of alarm. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes one has the feeling that in this House there are those who are not aware of what are the political priorities for Spain or what the Spaniards of their public representatives expect. I cannot imagine the comfort enjoyed by those who believe that at this time it is opportune to devote an hour at the headquarters of national sovereignty to this debate. That said, I must tell you that I am very surprised. It turns out that today's controversy, as I said to you, is to point out to two ministers for answering by expressing a very cautious assessment of the partial estimation of the unconstitutionality remedy. I insist, we are talking about statements that are particularly bold and thorough. However, VOX is irritated by the legitimate freedom of expression of nothing less than two ministers of the Government of Spain, not to mention the part concerning Minister Bolaños, who is directly impudent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is delirium to say that the opinion of any representative on a judgment puts at risk the separation of powers, not only because it is an attack on a right such as freedom of expression, which is of particular relevance and protection for those of us who intervene in public space, but because it is part of the inflammatory corpus used by the extreme right to destabilise democracy, as we have seen very well today. I am referring to that collection of high-sounding, thick and offensive phrases with which you intend to place debate frames whose goal is only to wink. So you begin the path of authoritarianism. By the way, I will tell you more, in democracy citizens have the right to know how much their representatives can say about any issue related to the country's future, as is the case. The words of the ministers are not only correct, but they are also healthy and desirable. But there are still surprises that go beyond that of the text itself of this initiative, and it is that it takes a very small trace to discover that VOX, contrary to what it proposes to us today, openly and lightly views our courts when it seems opportune. As Mr Santiago has already reminded you, VOX has come to say that the Constitutional Court is complicit in the coup d'état of this government with the state of alarm, it has affirmed in this House that the Constitutional Court is subject to the corruption of political parties and even an ultra deputy of the Madrid Assembly has come to call it a 'prostitutional court'. And I say to you more, Mrs Olona, the first signatory of this proposal, has pointed out to Parliament - and I will quote you textually - that the Constitutional Court circumvents its responsibilities because the current legislative framework allows it to act with absolute discretion and discretion is the front line of arbitrariness and thus leads to political corruption. What are we left with, Mrs. Olona? Don't your ex-abrupts compromise the separation of powers? If the ministers must resign by legally assessing a sentence, you, who also belongs to a state power, what should you do now that we have refreshed your memory? Well, I'll tell him. I believe that out of respect for Spain, for consistency and honour, I should resign from this House as a Member. [[Applauds]] In another matter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really care so much about justice in Spain, what you should do is stop using the constitutional organs as a weapon of wear and tear against the government. I'm done. I would like to remind you that the very sentence to which you allude recognizes that the state of alarm saved thousands of lives. I guess that's why you all voted for it several times. I would also like to ask those who support this misconception today if they believe that the PSOE had a state of alarm on its electoral agenda. Look, each and every member of this government and my parliamentary group has put their heart and soul into managing an unprecedented pandemic, and they have done it in the best possible way, I am sure that just as either of you would have done it. Moreover, thanks to the extraordinary cooperation of all Spanish and Spanish, we are succeeding in overcoming this horrible trance. I am not going to ask you to be loyal to this Government, we are satisfied that you stop frivolating with the suffering of an entire country because that is deeply miserable. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u105	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may in common may-galicia in common, on labour-related measures to be implemented within the framework of the recovery plans for processing and resiliency. [[File number 162/000814]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u106	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on labour measures to be promoted within the framework of recovery, transformation and resilience plans. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, first of all, I want to send from here a huge embrace and all the spirits of the world and all the strength of the world to the palm trees and palm trees, who are living in a terrifying situation. [[Applauds]] I was going to say that it is surprising how little has been named here today, but the sad thing is that I may not be surprised. Right now the lava is entering the Todoque neighborhood and we don't know when it's going to stop or how long this misfortune is going to last, which I think is neither a tourist claim nor an opportunity for the usual to spill their racist trash on social media and on people. And I do not want it to be just a few words of support from the rostrum, although the symbolic is also very important, I am not going to deny it, but I would like - and I think the palm people would also like it - that the coordinated work that the different administrations are doing, of different political colour - let us not forget, for example, that the Cabildo de La Palma is governed by the People's Party in coalition with the Socialist Party - or what the Canary Islands Government, the different municipalities or the State Government are doing, does not end here, that it is not a flower of a day and that we make sure that all the people, all the palm trees and palm trees that are losing their homes, their lands, their orchards, that for many people are their way of life and the only income that they have, the only way that they have to be able to reach the end of the month, all this is put back to them in the best conditions. I'm sorry for this introduction, but I think it's key and I wanted, as a canary Member, to place the importance of the terrifying drama that palm trees are experiencing and that has us all with our hearts in a fist. With regard to the initiative, I simply want to say that the objective of this parliamentary initiative, of this GNP, is nothing other than to push the social dialogue tables, which are meeting and debating right now, and to show that there is a sufficient parliamentary majority in this House to achieve, at least, the first steps to change labour legislation, the legal framework for work in our country. I'm going to tell it very quickly, I don't want to tire them out or leave for the branches. And tell me if there's anyone, someone working, who might be against what we put on the table with this initiative. First - and I read the initiative textually - the recovery of the ultraactivity of the conventions. Anyone who has been in a job or negotiating a collective agreement knows that this is a sword of Damocles about working people. Many times, companies use it to say: yes, yes, negotiate the agreement, whatever you want, but we let the time pass and, when it takes a year, the agreement declines and you become much worse. This causes working people to be forced to sign agreements at a lower level and under worse conditions than they had before. Secondly, a review of the application priority of company agreements on sectoral agreements. We also know this very well; unfortunately, it is a classic already: a person is coerced to present himself to the trade union representation and is told that, if he does not, he goes to the street. Either you catch the typical ball or the typical shift ball and you tell him: you have to run for union election because I say so. And then, with these profiles, it is with those who negotiate conventions that are very low with respect to the conventions that have been negotiated by thousands of workers and affect the entire workforce. This is an absolute barbarity, and it has been criticized by the workers on many occasions and in many areas. Thirdly, the modification of the system of their employment to prevent it from being a mechanism of precariousness and discrimination. We know, outsourcing the main activity of companies is an absolute barbarity. That, for example, the heart of hotels, which are the housekeepers, in many places are outsourced, this does not respond to any logic beyond imposing precariousness and low wages on working people. Fourthly, the limitation of powers to unilaterally modify the working conditions of the company. Another classic, unfortunately. They catch you, they sit you one day with the companions and they tell you: from now on you're going to have a split shift, from now on you're going to come on Saturday and it turns out that the holidays you're going to be able to catch in this period, and you're going to have to do another day on Sundays. Why? Because I'm saying, I'm allowed to do the job reform. This, if changed, is something that would greatly improve the lives of working people. Then, the introduction of sustainability mechanisms in employment, which will provide internal flexibility for businesses and stability for workers. This is nothing other than, let's say, putting in the labor legal body of our country tools like the ERTE, which have proved - I don't say it, the data say it - that they work superfluously. When it gets ugly, instead of becoming a mass layoff and suffering of working families, it has managed to keep jobs, entrepreneurship and get out of the way. The clearest example is in COVID-19. Finally, in order for me not to run out of time, which is also urgently needed and which are driving the social dialogue tables, it is to simplify the temporary arrangements for employment, ensuring that the indefinite contract is a general rule. Right now there is a real nonsense, and it is that in business activities that are continuous, that are indefinite, temporary contracts are given. I could give any example, but one is the malls, where there is a lot of precariousness, a lot of temporary contracts, when that business is really not temporary. The proof is that many of them open even at Christmas, holidays, etc. This is a barbarity in our country and it causes a huge bag of fraud, millions and millions of contracts. As I say, ending this and implementing the rest of the measures would greatly improve the lives of working people in our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I feel like what I'm going to discuss here isn't as much fun as the lively afternoon we're having, but this really is what should matter to the Spaniards. We are now debating a proportion of the United Nations. We can say that Mr Rodríguez has defended, and I join him in his solidarity with the palm trees and palm trees, which are currently suffering from the eruption of the volcano at the Old Summit. United We can propose an initiative on labour measures and says Mr Rodríguez that only to push for a change in the labour paradigm. The first point of his initiative calls for the consolidation of growth and the creation of stable and high-quality jobs, with particular attention to young people and women, to be continued - and I read it textually - by placing this objective at the heart of the recovery, transformation and resilience plans. Mr. Rodriguez, I have to tell you that I wish your initiative would have been left alone, because to continue reading is to move towards delirium. It is his umpteenth proposal to repeal, basically, the existing labour reform, to which the principle and the end of all the evils of this country lie. What would happen to Podemos's work-related electoral programme without this labour reform; perhaps, and only perhaps, you would have to start drawing up realistic proposals, proposals that you do not have, because I hope that, if you had them, they will apply them, for example, in the Valencian Community - in my community, in my province - where you govern in a tripartite, that of the Botànic, together with the PSOE and with Compromís, where it has been known today that a report by the Spanish Youth Council says that more than 50% of the young population of the Valencian Community who are unemployed is at risk of extreme poverty or social exclusion due to the temporary nature of contracts, the impossibility of emancipation and the impossibility of access to housing. However, for me, what is particularly striking about your proposal is to ask for the modernisation of labour legislation and for it to be done within the framework of social dialogue; of course, an abstract aspiration with which we in my parliamentary group fully agree, but it is ridiculous - I would even say that at some times even hypocritical - that we should be able to defend social dialogue when the Minister of Labour, who I understand is the recipient of this initiative, has decided to raise the interprofessional minimum wage without counting on employers, for example, last week, or the same social dialogue that she is asking for now and that they have not practiced in the amendment of the Workers' Statute, made by royal decree-law, that of the riders, in which they did not even count on the will or the opinion of the workers themselves. I do not know, Mr Rodríguez, who you want to deceive, but you do not want social dialogue, you do not seek to reach any consensus with the social partners, and much less you have an interest in agreeing on a labour reform with the rest of the parties in this House, so that we have a real and stable quality work framework. For not wanting to reach an agreement, the two vice-presidents, Mrs Díaz and Mrs Calviño, do not even agree. This non-legislative proposal does not seek to provoke a debate on our model of work or to improve the lives of millions of people who are today in a precarious employment situation, it seeks solely and exclusively to try to rejoin its governing partners, the Socialist Party, and to use the Congress of Amplifier of their internal battles. As long as they are engaged in this performance, in Spain, as far as the year goes, ten temporary contracts have been signed for each indefinite contract signed and we continue with a rate of temporality that exceeds 25%. There is a critical situation in the case of young people, as I said earlier, whose temporaryity rate exceeds 50% and who are trapped in a vicious circle of job instability and inability to access housing or develop their life projects. Therefore, in Citizens we advocate that all contracts be indefinite from the first day, in order to avoid inequality between first and second workers and thus improve social contributions as well. Since you have no proposals to implement, we lend you our charms, because you are in governments and can put them into practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u110	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u111	Good afternoon to everyone. Alberto, first of all, all our solidarity with the Canarian people, particularly with palm trees and palm trees. Huge hug. We are here to have everything we can do, from the legislative point of view and more. Even if it's a symbolic thing, the details are important and there they are. Having said that, today the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can bring to debate a non-legislative proposal to urge the Government to adopt labour measures that we can describe as reasonable and necessary. We are not surprised that this is the meaning of the UN proposal. We can, as your public commitment to legislation protecting social and labour rights is well known. Here we agree, as we have agreed to support the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the creation of the minimum living income, the amendment of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code or, as we have been agreeing on virtually all the work commissions already in the time of the now minister, Mrs Yolanda Díaz. But honestly, comrades of United We can, there is one thing that worries us about your initiative and it is the fact that year by year, month by month and GNP the GNP is working a little bit on its discourse on measures to be taken in the area of labour legislation. We have moved from repealing the two labour-remembrance reforms, those of the PP and those of the PSOE - to repealing only that of the PP; then, to repealing only the most harmful or harmful aspects of the labour reform, and the non-law proposal that they bring us today is already minimal, as you very well said. The Requirement List is coming down in a very worrying way for the interests of the working classes. And I say so with all due respect to your group and your minister. If someone intends to repeal, as you say in your GNP - textually - 'the reforms of the People's Party, to recover the rights stolen by them' to the working class, but, instead, leaves out, for example, the cut in redundancies, I think it is an important forget, if it is a forget. This is not a minor issue and you must explain what is going on so that you go down this bar a little bit. We are well aware that in a coalition government complex balances have to be achieved - I think the explanation is here - only the amendments that have brought them to the vote on their non-law proposal by the PSOE to see where they are going - where they have always gone, if they are not forced to rectify, as always. But you cannot expect the Republican Left to buy the PSOE account when it says, for example, that the price of layoffs, processing wages and administrative authorization for EREs and ERTEs - now more important than ever - are not part of the most damaging aspects of labour reform. No, that's not gonna happen. Left Republican - I want to make it clear in this warning that we make them in the non-law proposal - does not assume a coma other than to repeal it labor reform that has impoverished the working class, as we agree, over the last decade. We cannot allow this government to leave without repealing the complete labour reform, because, if this happens - if it is not repealed - it means that we will be applying the same prescriptions that Rajoy applied. In other words, the current arrangement, a couple of years later, remains the same: the two labour reforms of the PSOE and the PP, the pension reform and article 135 of the Constitution which allows the first payment of the debt before the services. I mean, let's go to Work and start speeding up the machinery already, because, if not, we're going to say that we're doing the same thing we did with Rajoy; because, in fact, we don't have to make reforms because they're already done, that government did them at the time. You yourself have described yourself as the most progressive government in history and, unfortunately, perhaps you are, because if we look back a little bit and look at the councils of ministers that have preceded you, we see that you do not have much competence on the left. Well, imagine, if you give up returning the compensation, where you were when I was ruling Zapatero. We don't ask for anything eccentric either. Who was going to do it, who are going to vote for the workers of the different peoples of the state where only you carry the flag of the left, where there are no electoral alternatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, we trust you very much because you are also necessary for our policy. And I think if I ask you if it's fair for an improper dismissal to be paid thirty-three days' wages per year worked and without processing wages, you're going to tell me that it's not fair and that you have to recover those processing wages, unless you tell me otherwise. But I am convinced that no, and therefore the final question, ladies and gentlemen of United We can, is whether they will be consistent with your speech so that the working class does not continue to suffer from the working apparatus of the People's Party and the Socialist Party created between 2010 and 2013. That is to say, labour reform, pension reform, the repeal of article 135 of the Constitution or the repeal of the law on harassment to combat political and trade union dissent, for which we have more than 3,500 accused for other reasons. We enter the months of deeds and not words and we want seriously...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u112	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u113	...that united and united we can, truly, do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u115	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I said this before, this is the time and it is also very convenient to present this proposal, because it is the time to undertake the modernization of labour regulations, to regulate contractual arrangements, to recover the rights stolen by the reform of the People's Party and to move forward and propose new ones. Of course it is time, because the data, all the data, keep marking a very complicated panorama. I'll remind you only three. 27 per cent of the total number of contracts in this country since its labour reform lasts less than seven days; 22 million contracts were signed last year; 6 million contracts lasted less than one week. 48% of the working population is insecure, 7 points above our European neighbours. Poor workers have increased by 16% from their labour reform to 2019. And if these figures and numbers seem to them to be vague to argue that we need to leave behind the Labour Reform of the People's Party, I will talk to you about rulings that their reform is obsolete, that their reform is old-fashioned, because we work with 1980 rules that do not respond to the current needs of the labour market. The Supreme has recognized the workmanship of the riders. The Supreme has changed the case law to eliminate the precariousness of subcontracts and fixed discontinuous ones. The Court of Justice of the European Union itself has condemned Spain for its lack of partiality control or has called for the elimination of discrimination between temporary and indefinite workers. In short, how far this regulation is from today's world! Because, in addition to these data and judgments, we should have learned from this pandemic also in the workplace. It is true that, despite the fact that effective internal flexibility mechanisms have been put in place that have benefited three and a half million workers, temporary employment has been lost. We need to act on this so Spanish feature and cut it short. And that the temporary have found a government with a certain sensitivity that has made available to it a new subsidy, as for the self-employed or for those who have lost their jobs; this question also raises us that the protection system does not endure any more patches. We must now turn around and ask for this in our amendment too: attention to this regulatory reform for the simplification and improvement of the level of assistance. So with this hussy that the People's Party left us, what do we intend to give? Security, stability and, in a romantic way as well, guaranteeing the precepts of our Constitution: the right to work, to freedom of association, to participation and to enterprise democracy. Where do we want to start? Obviously, by recovering the stolen rights that have to do with the imbalance in labour relations and the breakdown of collective bargaining. We want to continue with everything related to the precepts that invade central elements of precarious recruitment. But in order to do so, we believe that we need to add some more point to the proposal that is being discussed here today. We want to create a new labour code, a modern labour statute that moves forward with Spain and not against the working people and businesses of this country. We also want to modernise active employment policies and, of course, to regain dignity in wages. To improve wages because Article 35 of our Constitution says so, but, above all, because the Socialist Party believes it, and has done so whenever it governs. In the last three years Pedro Sánchez has increased the interprofessional minimum wage by 31%, but José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero also did so, with up to 40%, and even Felipe González in the early years of his government, which increased it by 41%. That is why this part of the amendment is essential for us: to work for that threshold of decency and to continue the path of wage improvement in order to reach the end of the legislature reaching 60% of the average wage. This is the way, to work for the modernization of the world of work for the benefit of the lives of working people and also of businesses. This Government thinks of them when it is proposing clear, simple and undefined procurement formulas that establish their indefinite nature as a rule, where causality is recovered, where article 11 is also regulated by training contracts and where collective bargaining is balanced, because modern enterprises must have modern labour relations. So we come from a very hard year and after the effort of the Spaniards all deserve a better new stage, with better wages, better jobs and better possibilities to develop a full working life. That is why it is also important how we are going to do it, how we want to do it, wisely, with dialogue, with a social pact - yes, Mrs Muñoz, up to seven social dialogue pacts signed in the last two years - and also with the political agreement, because in recent years important issues have been resolved, they have done so, but everything is always better, ladies and gentlemen. Let us talk, discuss and agree so that the new legislation that leaves behind the labour reform of the People's Party will continue. So let us not ask ourselves whether we fully agree, but only if we go the same way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. United We can - that for the uninformed occupy five places in the Council of Ministers for a year and a half long - bring to the Plenary an initiative that launches against the measures that the Executive that presided Mariano Rajoy saw himself in the irrefutable obligation to apply after the colossal socio-economic batacazo of the stage of Rodriguez Zapatero, which ended in 2011 with a serious threat of rescue; a threat of rescue like that Greece of Tsipras and Varoufakis, which sealed ahead of officials, pensions and plunged the Greeks into a colossal black hole. Do you remember who was campaigning there in Athens for Tsipras? The leader of the Unidad Podemos. Do you remember who came to Spain to give masterful lessons on economics? Mr Varoufakis. Mr Rajoy, who here met with the risk premium fired, the destruction of colossal businesses, the sidereal unemployment and, as a result, the express reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, which, by the way, Forum voted against, and some, such as Mr Sánchez, then Member of Parliament, who voted in favour, then refused to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of this proposal distorts and camouflages the working reality of our country, which, to quote youth employment, keeps us at the highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union with almost 40%, and Asturias, unfortunately, at the top. Speaking of women, the spokesman, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez, forgot to say that Spain was the country of the European Union in 2020 where female unemployment grew the most, with almost 3 points; from 15.7% to 18.4%, widening the inequality gap with regard to male unemployment by 14.2%, and multiplying by no less than two the average of the 27 Member States, which was 7.9%. The initiative, the non-law proposal of the United We can urge the repeal of the labor reform of the People's Party that Forum supported in the Courts, both in Congress and in the Senate, whose measures last almost a decade and served to stop the pandemic and the bloodshed of jobs. Being so harmful, as Podemos argues, it is very surprising that Pedro Sánchez has not found time in forty months of presidency to modify these very harmful measures. Finally, with regard to the fight against precariousness and fraud, nothing new in the Chamber of the Congress of Deputies. United We can get used to bringing initiatives to the greatest glory of the Vice-President second of the Government. I would like Mrs Díaz to explain to us here her progress in favour of stable and quality employment because today, with the data in hand, the main thing in her management is propaganda, in the case of this pyrotechnic initiative of her fellow co-religionaries that I will vote against. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u118	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the non-legislative proposal if it is maintained in the terms in which it is or is improved by the amendments of the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, not by the other amendments. But, in any case, more important than all this is to point out the surprise that ultimately causes us that this is a non-legislative proposal and not a bill. In the end, for those who are not educated in parliamentary techniques, this is nothing more than a mere declaration of intent, with a certain symbolism, I do not deny it, but without any practical effect for the Government itself because it does not force it to do anything. I believe that, in any case, what should be done is to start to legislate with the State Official Gazette more directly and leave us with a certain symbolism. It is true that if you read the non-law proposition you may agree or quite agree with much of the analysis that is made; it is true, the general reading that is made at least shares it my group, shares it the sovereignism and independence of the left, but it is no less true that there are also some omissions. In other words, not everything bad began with the reform of the People's Party, even though it took a leap forward in the worsening living conditions of the working class, the Basque and probably also that of the Spanish State because they are subject to the same framework. But all this has been washing for decades because there are many, you can count on dozens, the labor reforms that have been made, some by the Socialist Party and others by the People's Party. It is an omission that is made in the text, probably in order not to aggravate the partner of government - and I understand it - but in any case it does not reflect the reality as it is. The other has to do with juvenile insecurity. The problem of youth insecurity is well reflected, but it seems to suggest that it is already in the process of being resolved. It has also been pointed out and it is true that youth insecurity in the Spanish State remains a major concern compared to other European Union countries: 27% of temporary work within young people, which is the same as youth insecurity, is still a matter of concern. It is also said that corporate abuse seems to have been a practice of the past and, unfortunately, the headlines point out that much less is the case. Today we saw how the National Court said that ArcelorMittal had carried out, through the employment regulation file that led to effect, a fraud of law, that acted in bad faith and that it also made a torturing use of the COVID measures; that is the same as the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country said for other companies - read Tubacex, Petronor or PCB-ITP Aero Castings -. It is, therefore, a practice that I would not call widespread or widespread, but, of course, quite recurrent and common for what we see. Then, bad business practice has not ended. In short, we agree to repeal labour reform, because we already agreed on 20 May when we signed this role with you and the Socialist Party. [[shows a document]] For us the word is fulfilled and we are expecting that, by the counterparts of this agreement - not by Euskal Herria Bildu, which would not take a minute for this to come true - it will begin to be fulfilled. Because it is true that what was sold with the labor reform that new spaces had to be created in the labour market for more people to work, the only thing he has done has been that not even the share of full employment that they understood to be accessible is exceeded. It's just that we don't even have a precarious full job. In other words, it was said before that in order to get full employment we had to deplete the conditions of the workers, never the business benefits, and what we have found is that, even if we did that, we have not even achieved precarious full employment. They have already pointed out many of the missing issues. I'll point out some of them. We believe that the implementation priority of state agreements on provincial or own should be put an end. We believe that prior authorisation for employment regulation dossiers by a labour authority should be re-established. We believe that the compensation for dismissal should be raised to 45 days a year, because even if one can share the philosophy of the Minister of Labour that it is best not to fire anyone, the truth is that it is fired people and surely it is better that they leave 45 days a year than 33 or 20 or 12. We also believe that the interprofessional minimum wage must be adapted to each territory, because what people may fail to understand is that, for example, an autonomous community - read Madrid and by random quote - can do the taxation to the letter they want to take over the elites, but that then an autonomous community cannot implement the minimum wages to adapt to a reality of life that is probably more expensive or different from that of other places. That without demediating anyone's chances and advancement. We also believe that progress must be made in terms of labour relations for Nafarroa, for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in short, for Euskal Herria. And we think we have to do it now, because the very ones who tell you now that you can't be sure are the same ones who in 1861 said that if you couldn't hire children the companies broke, or those who in 1911 said that if the workers deliver one day the companies broke, or those who in 1931 said that if you had to pay vacation the workers the companies broke, or those who in 2021 say that if you have to pay decent wages the companies will break or that if you raise the minimum interprofessional wage fifteen euros the system will break. These people are the people who are holding all power and probably want to keep it that way, but on the left we have always said that the world had to change base. Well, let's get started.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u120	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u121	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Mr Rodriguez, allow me - because you know I have tremendous appreciation for you - to tell you that the best of this non-law proposition has been the reminder you have made of the palm trees and palm trees and the effort and pain you are suffering right now. From there, let me tell you that neither you nor your group are worthy of such initiatives. They tend to be much more collaborative, quite more concrete and quite more attached to a reality which is, among other things, that of the social dialogue table in terms of labour reform. Let me also say something else, Mr Rodríguez, and it is that - unfortunately and since, moreover, this proposal comes from the area or party that supports, not only the Government, but in particular the person responsible for the subject of labour reform, which is our common friend, Mrs Yolanda Díaz - they are giving a somewhat distorted picture of that internal cohesion that would deserve to represent at least one Government; a government that intends to maintain the initiative in such an important aspect as this. In addition, let me point out another added point, namely that these proposals are linked to an already existing debate and that it is assumed that, at least in part, it is resolved within the social dialogue table and the Government where, in some way, those proposals should have had not only their reflection but their concreteness. Let me also tell you that this non-legislative proposition has for me those characteristics of unilaterality, indecretion and lack of attachment to reality that do not make it appropriate or worthy of the representation you have. Coming down to the ground from the concrete aspects of this proposal and entering into the matter, and agreeing to a large extent I will not say about its content, but yes about its line, I will tell you that, for example, we agree with the line of the proposal for the recovery of ultraactivity, but we are concerned that it will do so in this way so completely isolated from other covenants or other agreements that have been in the matter and, above all, with that scarce conceptual content that we have appreciated. Let us not talk about the concurrence of agreements, which is perhaps the area in which we can have the greatest debate, because we share the view that the prevalence of company agreements is dysfunctional. But from there, we are going to diverge, because we are in favour not of the prevalence of the state agreement, but of sectoral, territorial or provincial agreements. Of course, from subcontracting you are aware that my group has for a very long time had a definite realization in this matter. It has sought and intends to aim at a solidarity, privileged and preferential responsibility for the principal entrepreneur, and yet we believe that this GNP does not even reach that kind of conclusion. I have told you: it seems terribly inconsistent to me. Unfortunately, tremendously inconsistent. With regard to the unilateral modification of working conditions, our position has also always been unequivocal in pointing out that the amendments must be of a bilateral nature, negotiated and, where appropriate, approved in a collective agreement, as was the case before the 2012 reform. In any case, the proposed law does not explain what it proposes to achieve this objective. Let us hope that this will also be included in labour reform. Of course, the invocation of stable employment is an obvious one in which we are all going to agree, but it still has nothing to do with it. Nor does he do so with regard to training contracts, although that would have been enough for him to go to his presentation on this issue of the proliferation of temporary contracts, in whose conclusions the abuse of training contracts was already denounced when de facto they covered regular work constituent activities. He doesn't say anything either. And the root of the obvious is the proposal when it talks - I read - of regulating contractual measures that end precariousness and fraud of law and that are in favour of stable and quality employment, or that the indefinite contract is the general rule, or of adequate regulation of the formative contract, or of promoting the fight against fraud. Those are commonplaces. From there, what? When you are in the government, when your party is in the government, when the minister presiding over the branch is in the government for your party, it is tremendously shocking that you bring such an inconcrete proposal. We are in favour - and we will certainly do so in this case too - of rowing in favour of the current when the current leads to a necessary reform in the field of work, but it must walk along more agreed lines, more dialogue and not of a unilateral nature. Keep in mind that cohesion, also in the area of labour reform, will be important. There is also a need to walk in that regard. Such measures cannot be promoted or intended to be promoted through non-legislative proposals without knowing what their content is.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u122	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u123	We therefore believe that this is a proposal on which we agree in its general line. Let us hope that other groups will join us so that we can vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u124	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a fact that the Government is grossly failing to comply with the commitment to repeal labour reform, and that they had time to do so, too, for almost two years since the investiture. That's why we're a little surprised and we're missing this UN PNL We can. We don't know very well whether it's to ask Yolanda Díaz to comply and revoke already, or to pressure his PSOE partner. In any case, they have the BOE, use it, permanently repeal the labor reform. The BNG, which opposed all labour reforms, also to the 2010 PSOE, has since the beginning of the legislature urged the government to act. Repeal is one of the measures contained in the investment agreement. In addition, months ago, in the face of the inaction of the Government, sheltered by the complexity of the deployment of new legislation, we presented a GNP so that the reforms would be directly repealed and the pre-2010 legislation would be provisionally recovered. This would mean recovering rights and preventing the continued negative effects of this rule, such as the impossibility of extinguishing ERE without the need for administrative authorization from the labour authority. Look, yesterday we knew that the Vestas company, in full wind boom, stops the activity and fires 115 workers in Viveiro, in the Comarca da Mariña; the rule made it easy. By the way, his proposals forget relevant aspects, such as the centralization of collective bargaining and the lack of respect for the Galician negotiating framework...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u126	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u127	...the unilaterality of companies or the reduction of dismissal. We're worried that it's because they're definitely giving up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u129	Good afternoon. First of all, of course, in the Democratic Party we join in the embrace of the Canary Islands for the situation that we are experiencing with all our solidarity and, therefore, it is also welcome to do so at the beginning of this intervention. The issue before us now is the famous labour reform. We can always repeal labour reform. And in this non-law proposal that we are presented with, although general music might sound good to one, I was especially surprised, and I have to express it, the focus. You asked which worker wouldn't agree with this. And it is true that we must take into account in this area what the workers think, but this completely breaks with a scenario in which there are two actors who affect these labour standards, the workers and the companies. And this breaks, above all, the scheme that you and Minister Yolanda Díaz have been telling us since the beginning of the pandemic of the importance of social dialogue. Where is the social dialogue in this proposal? In his approach and presentation he told us: This is what all workers want. Well, so far they were telling us that everything had to be done with social dialogue. I believe that this approach to you harms you in the proposal's approach, because, it is true, we all know that you are going to give us that speech from the great entrepreneurs, who are bad, etc., but we have to think about and defend those small self-employed, those small SMEs that also have workers. And we want to please both the workers and the SMEs or the small self-employed who also hire people for their business, for their trade, and these people also need to be very aware of them. At PeCAT, of course, we take them very seriously. Therefore, here is an element that you have not taken into account in this proposal and that we have to put on the table as an element to consider. In fact, this proposal has another great element that creates doubts, what happens to the Government in this proposal? Because even the PSOE has tabled amendments to this approach. Is this Podemos's approach, is it the PSOE's approach, is it the government's approach? This would be a big incognito to clear. Therefore, the one who surprised me the most - do not take it wrong, because I think it has taken away the protagonistism - is my colleague from Esquerra Republicana Jordi Salvador, to whom I come to tell with all affection that phrase of tranquil, Jordi, tranquil. Because, of course, one hears Esquerra Republicana making the speech he has made here to recover the 45 days and wonders if this is the line of work of the Conseller d'Empresa of the Generalitat of Catalonia, if the Conselleria d'Empresa asks the entrepreneurs, the people who create occupation, the small SMEs, that this is the line that the Conselleria d'Empresa of the Generalitat of Catalonia has to go through. It is a doubt that time will give us the right answers. However, I believe that there are issues that can obviously be improved; we have said this many times. Of course, there is the primacy of the sectoral agreement in relation to enterprise, ultra-activity, but there are also much more hot topics, such as reducing timelessness; youth unemployment, which has been around 40% for a long time and has been under way by this government. A great solution for this could undoubtedly be contracts rescheduling and enhancing them. I wanted to finish my speech by reminding them that the repeal of labour reform is not the only solution. Active employment policies need to be pushed forward; the FP needs to be reformed, and there is a proposal that the PeCAT, the Democratic Party, make ours the Austrian backpack. The Banco de España pointed to this line to improve labour relations as well: take advantage of European funds to implement the Austrian backpack, a capitalization fund in the hands of the worker for those cases of dismissal...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u130	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u131	I'm done, President. ... of work change, company change or to supplement your pension. Well, all these elements...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u132	Your Honor, your time has passed a lot. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u133	Mr President, first of all, I would like to send a warm embrace to the compatriots of La Palma, of course. [[Applauds]] What's behind this GNP? Do we save Private Díaz, who announced the labor reform by the end of the year, or do her government partners not see this clear from the labor reform at this time, or are you the stylus of the personal red guard, advance of the government's proposals? We do not know where the economy will evolve in the coming months. It is proposed to extend the ERTE precisely because the economy has not started up in its entirety, so you save a clumsy pose the counter-reform work. It proposes special attention to young people and women, placing this objective at the centre of measures, recovery, transformation and resilience plans, and what do we do, for example, with the drama of the 55-year-olds who are also unemployed? Do we forget them and the rest, at an unemployment rate of 15.26% right now? Pure demagogy. They call for the recovery of the ultra-activity of the conventions in relation to article 86.3 of the Workers' Statute, but rather than recovering the ultra-activity, it would seek to articulate mechanisms of negotiation and enforcement. It cannot be that a convention comes to an end and if the parties do not agree on a new convention, it will be enforced at times that can be detrimental to everyone and when reforms are needed. The consequence of this article is to enhance the duty to negotiate in good faith in collective bargaining and for the period of one year. What happens is that good faith doesn't go with the left, with the class unions. They propose the priority of sectoral agreements, 84.2, when the collective agreement of the enterprise is adapted to the economic and labour reality of the enterprise, and this helps SMEs because, the more SMEs, the more helps this system of prioritising the enterprise agreement. The rest is a mistake, to the greatest glory of class unions. As far as subcontracting is concerned, strengthening productive decentralization has an impact on the economy and the viability of undisputed enterprises. Subcontracting, according to which sectors and times, can be a survival measure for businesses, which harmonize their structure with their economic reality; in turn, their proposal would leave thousands of small businesses in the dark because they do not understand the market and, of course, they do not care. Once again, we are surrounded by article 41 of the Workers' Statute. The powers given to employers for unilateral modification are sufficiently regulated in the current rule; even more so: business arbitrariness is penalised, and what you want is to penalise free enterprise. And, to a greater disadvantage, following the request to amend Title 41, they call for the introduction of mechanisms for employment sustainability that will provide internal flexibility. They suggest one thing and the other, with a total disregard for 97% of Spanish companies, which are SMEs. [[Applauds]] Undoubtedly, its intention is to liquidate the Spanish business fabric. [[The lady]] As far as recruitment is concerned, the simplification of the methods of employment may imply advantages for companies, workers and even for the public administration, but a rigid model, with little room for temporary recruitment, coupled with high social costs, would lead to a decline in job creation, slowing down the start-up of business projects and, in short, would affect economic recovery, without a doubt. On the Labour Inspectorate, which they like so much, we agree, not fraud, indeed, but aid also for businesses. It should be envisaged that the Labour Inspectorate should not only act as a monitoring and sanctioning body, but also develop its pedagogical or didactic work with regard to enterprises so that they would scrupulously comply with the law. In short, a flexible iter, but not exempt from force. It is necessary to verify, explain, give the company option for correction and sanction if there is no correction. In short, we are talking about two absolutely different models, those of rigidity and little flexibility, which give less work and more unemployment, or flexibility in the organization of work, which gives more work and less unemployment. Of course, we will vote no to this non-legislative proposal, which is exorbitant, forward-thinking of what you, theoreticians of university, want, and which seems to be, the government does not dare to face at this time. It's your problem and they don't pass it on to us. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u135	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that the shame, once lost, is lost for life, and it is necessary to have little shame, Mr Rodríguez, for you, those of Podemos, to bring this paripé here today, a GNP urging the government. And who rules in this country? And who carries the labor matter? And who is the Minister or the Minister of Labour? It is shown that every day you are more useless and less useful to the Spaniards. The words of the Socialist Party spokesman, who seems to have an interested amnesia, are also surprising. We are going to make some history, because there was a time in this country when more than three million Spaniards went to unemployment, a time when social aid was cut, the salaries of public employees and social rights were cut and pensions were also frozen, and all this, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, with the vote in favour of the then Member Pedro Sánchez. With a rigid labour market, a useless government and no alternatives to dismissal, the unemployment rate grew by more than 14 points. Two out of three European unemployed were Spanish and the unemployment rate for children under 25 tripled. They sent 1,400,000 women to unemployment and the wage gap grew by 16%, and no, it did not govern the People's Party, it governed its partners, the lordships of Podemos, it governed the Party before Socialist Workers and Spanish, today container of non-recoverable political waste, waste some dangerous, others simply comic. And don't lie, don't get your stories out here, get the accounts out, that the people we've got out, because, with the vote in favour of the current President of the Government, they cut each and every one of the budget lines, they cut 20% in housing policies, 8% in health, social services, education and culture, or more than 5% in promoting employment. You also cut off the transfers to the autonomous communities in your Government, forcing them to make cuts in health, social services or dependency, and for that 2008, when the economic crisis broke out, on the radio we could hear a song by Alejandro Sanz saying: I thank you, but no. That is what the People's Party says to you today, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos: I thank you, but no. That means that the lessons on job creation and social welfare that come from you, none. They say their crisis management leaves no one behind, and they lie again. Its management leaves 268,000 more unemployed, 272,000 workers still in ERTE and 223,000 self-employed on exit more than in August 2019. Its management also leaves 26% of people at risk of poverty and 7% of them who are suffering from a severe material shortage, as at the worst time of the previous financial crisis. Their management is leaving behind those times when the Spaniards did not have to choose between paying bills or eating, because you have raised their taxes, you have cost them the shopping basket, you have tripled the price of light and you want to make them pay even for the use of roads. And do you want to put an end to a job reform that you did was to flexibilize, among other things, the ERT model, which you have used to save your ass - if I may - to save employment data at such a difficult time? It was the reform of the People's Party that made the ERTE procedure more flexible, which saved millions of jobs and families in Spain. It could have been done by the socialist government to manage the crisis in 2008 or incorporate it into that inefficient labour reform of 2010, but it did not, it preferred to send 3.5 million workers to unemployment. You are surviving politically clinging to the demagogy of attacking a workable labour reform, which created 1,400 jobs per day and reduced households with all their unemployed members by more than 600,000. Three million Spaniards found jobs with this reform, 1.3 million women and more than 230,000 young people; a reform that made us leaders in job creation and reduction of unemployment across Europe. These are accounts and not tales that you like, because while you were sitting in those circles to create laws that drown vulnerable people today in a red tape, my party, the People's Party, was leaving the skin without thinking about the votes, implementing the measures that allowed this country to emerge from a crisis that had created its government partners. We have already shown that we know how to create jobs, you do not - the data say - and we are, of course, open to updating the regulation of the labour market. You have had enough time to prove that your Government's proposals create jobs, but the only job you have been able to create in all your time at the head of the government has been public employment, 228 000 more public jobs, not to mention the more than three hundred advisors you name to your finger. Therefore, be humble and learn from those who know, because, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, employment is not created because we invoke it with our hands; it is created with measures such as the reform of the People's Party, which saved the economy of thousands of families in this country and which you want to repeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u137	We're still on it, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u138	All right, thank you very much. When they have a transaction, if they come to an agreement, they send it to us.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u139	We then proceed to discuss the motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in the Principality of Asturias. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Five points in this motion summarise what we in the Forum understand as the main priorities that the Government, and specifically the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, should undertake in order to carry out in Asturias a policy of railway modernization that allows to overcome the great backwardness and the shortcomings in an autonomous community in which the train has gradually lost its relevance as a result of the lack of investments, the paralysis of projects and works in progress, as well as the aggravation compared with other regions and areas of Spain which, in short, reflects the lack of commitment to the development of a means of transport that, in addition to being environmentally clean and respectful, is key in the economy and society of the twenty-first century. Yesterday in Asturias was the new Minister of Transport, whom I asked here last week, and starred there in a reality show in the tunnels of Pajares, an episode that, I suppose, corresponds to the tour of the raptured company of La Moncloa within the Spain 2050 serial, with which we are threatened. Ladies and gentlemen, those who, for years and years here in Congress, in the Senate and also in the General Assembly of the Principality, have rejected, hindered, tarnished and paralyzed the railway variant of Pajares and the incorporation of the Madrid-Asturias line into the European High Speed Network are now disguised as drivers to end the work with which they are going to discriminate once again against the Asturians to whom, in terms of high speed, we are offered cat by hare. The colossal public investment of 37 billion euros made in the La Robla and Pola de Lena stretch since the beginning of the century was aimed at facilitating communication between the capital of Asturias, Oviedo, and the capital of Spain, Madrid, in two hours thirty minutes. With the socialist barter in favor of the Iberian width RENFE instead of the European standard UIC, the journey between the two cities will go to times of travel that will not be homologable to the rest of the Spanish lines of high speed and in service and will leave, unlike the other runners, a bird of half hair because cancel - I emphasize, cancel - the European category of high speed granted by the government of José María Aznar to the line Madrid-Asturias. Hence the first of the points of the initiative calls for the application of the technical solutions necessary to approve the Madrid-Asturias line with the rest of the high-speed lines. It is, above all, a question of equal treatment between Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, on the second of the points of my parliamentary initiative I call for compensation for long-distance bad rail communication and the more than foreseeable delay in the arrival of high speed, urgently equalising the decisions of the Government taken in other territories of Spain with the reduction and abolition of tolls that penalise the transport of passengers and goods on the highway journey between Asturias and Madrid. I ask Asturias for the same criterion of general interest, the same, no more or less, as is being applied to other Spanish territories in the area of tolls. Thirdly, the motion seeks to highlight the agreement signed in May 2019, that is, just over two years ago, so that the Gijón intermodal station will be located in the vicinity of the Railway Museum, a proposal that reached a very broad political and social consensus and that, published in the Official Gazette of the State, is now intended to crush by hindering the development of a project that began to develop at the beginning of the century to maintain the centrality of the railway and with intermodality as an irrefutable sign, giving the most populated city of the region a bus station commensurate with its importance. Ladies and gentlemen, neither Asturias nor any of the autonomous communities on the Atlantic and Cantabrian facade can be relegated from a railway corridor that allows to ensure the best railway connectivity and logistic efficiency with characteristics that allow the cities and ports of the Atlantic-Cantabrian facade, case of El Musel and Aviles, to join the Trans-European Transport Network TEN-T. It is essential and urgent to give priority to this Atlantic corridor. Finally, the motion affects the calamitous situation of the network of Near Asturias. In this regard, the Government is urged to take emergency measures to halt and correct the serious deterioration of this network, affecting the budget lines envisaged in the 2017-2025 plan, which was agreed by the Government of Spain and the Principality, with the support of the main municipalities and a very broad representation of society. Finally, by calling on the House to vote in favour of these measures, I would like to insist on the irrevocable commitment to the completion in Asturias of a rail modernisation which is crucial for competitiveness, socio-economic growth and job creation, since the community continues to occupy, year after year, the red light in the labour force rate, and when we talk about young people, we have the highest youth unemployment record in the whole of the European Union. In Asturias, an autonomous socialist president coined the term 'urban legend' fifteen years ago to deny the already eloquent figures of youth emigration. Today thousands and thousands of urban legends continue to cross Places in search of the future and the future that, like the train of the twenty-first century, Asturias is denied. Madam President, of the amendments tabled, I will accept the Citizens' amendment, although I would like to acknowledge the Socialist Group and the Member, Mr Morís, the content of your amendment, which in some respects does not close the door to old Asturian priorities and demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr López-Bas Valero is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u142	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Martinez, go ahead with the will of my group to support your motion. Of course, our amendment only seeks to improve and achieve a better text, which can be used for the best agreements both for Asturias and for Asturians. In Citizens we are aware of the main problems of the Principality, a community with a population that is intensifying its decline and that in the last thirty years it is falling in population and now barely exceeds one million inhabitants; a community with a complicated orography; a community with an endemic economic and social crisis, which has had the highest incidence in the industrial crisis and which is partly the result of those thirty-eight years of socialist governments in forty-three years of democracy; an incomprehensible underutilization of European funds, being one of the European regions that has least implemented from the 2014-2020 funds, and finally a disproportionate influence of localist interests, which prevent supra-municipal initiatives such as that of the metropolitan area of central Asturias, which brings together more than 80% of the population, while successive governments, both state and autonomic, have generated a strange local competition between municipalities rather than making progress towards cooperation. We know that reality and therefore our interest in improving your motion with our amendment. First of all, you propose to approve the AVE Madrid-Asturias with the rest of the Spanish lines. We prefer not to talk about approval, because we understand that there is really no standard to be approved and, above all, not to generate ambiguities or give to the Government, to which we already know, nor half an excuse to cling in order not to achieve that common purpose that we have: that the AVE arrives from Madrid to Oviedo in less than two hours and thirty minutes. It seems lumism, but it is not the same, Mr Martínez, and you know as I do that we cannot give this government a chance to manipulate language and say something today that means one thing and that tomorrow means the other. Therefore, the important thing is to have the AVE in Asturias, and in our amendment we propose that we stop talking about approvals and talk about the real time, about the objective, that we win those two hours and thirty minutes at most to travel between Madrid and Asturias. Secondly, of course we support your proposal on the subject of tolls. In fact, one of the most expensive in Spain is in the AP-66, the Toll of the Huerna, and Asturias never gets those toll releases that do reach other places where there are nationalist parties that manage to negotiate their votes for the government. For us equality is fundamental and, therefore, we understand that this equality must refer to the lifting of tolls, but not that they remain, on the other hand, only in those communities where there is no nationalist party pressing in Madrid. Thirdly, you are talking about ratifying the May 2019 agreement between the ministry, the Principality and the City of Gijón for the road plan of this city. Absolutely agree, but we also want to urge both the Forum and the PSOE, which today governs in the city, to achieve the best technical and economic solution. If Moreda's alternative turns out to be faster, cheaper and will not generate other problems than that of the Railway Museum, we see no problem in which we can assume a change that we believe to be less, that is a good solution regardless of who proposes it. Fourthly, we do not only fully agree with the momentum for the Atlantic Corridor. It has been a proposal in the Citizens' programmes in the successive elections in which it has participated, but it has also been called for by José Ramón Bauzá, our MEP in the European Parliament. Fifthly, of course, the renewal of the network of neighbourhoods must be urgently promoted, but it is not only a problem of maintenance and renewal, but also a problem of management. Asturians cannot be seeing their mobility conditioned by continuous delays, cancellations, chaotic schedules and trains and stops that are without passengers. Of course, we also bet to reorganize the time mesh of the vicinity in Asturias to make it more logical and efficient. Finally, we have introduced an amendment to boost the variant of Villabona, because the project is already being studied, indeed, but we are aware that being in its day in the study phase it has also been abandoned. Therefore, we believe it is important to remember with our amendment that a budgetary commitment is needed to make it truly a will expressed for its implementation. I reiterate, Mr Martínez, that our will is to enrich your motion with this amendment. We hope you know how to see it this way and that you will accept it so that it can thrive and move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u143	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Morís has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca, I am going to focus on a number of realities that we must remember and through which anyone who listens to us will understand why we cannot support your motion, to which we have tabled an amendment. The first is that we must make this House aware of the unanimous title with which most of the Asturian media today open: Historical Day for Asturias. In fact, yesterday was a historic day for the future of our land, because we attended the first test trip for the variant of Pajares, the most important engineering work and with more complexity in Spain in the last fifty years; vital for our communications, for the mixed transport of goods and passengers by rail, something totally necessary for our community, and also optimizing to the maximum the investment made. It is a reality that we are in the final line of the arrival of the AVE in Asturias, with high-speed services comparable in services, in time and in all those of the major Spanish and European cities. You know that this is so, despite the grey image you intend to give of our land and these vital infrastructures for the future of Asturias. It is not surprising that he continues to maintain his position despite the evidence. There is a second reality, and for the works to move forward, investments are needed. If we look at the General Budgets of the State in Asturias, we see how they decreased during the years of the governments of the People's Party and how they increased with the governments led by the Socialist Party. This is a reality, as is the fact that you have always supported those budgets of the People's Party and have not done so with the latest ones presented by this government, despite the fact that Asturias was the third largest community to increase its investment in the General Budgets of the State. Without investments there is no infrastructure, so the role you play here is very contradictory, because at the time of truth you are opposed to investments for Asturias. There is a third reality, and it is that we should be attending the end of the Huerna toll if it had not been because Mr Alvarez-Cascos, founder of his party and then member of the popular government, extended it until 2050. I know you don't like us to remind you, but it is a reality, as is the fact that the Spanish Government, in collaboration with the Government of Adrian Barbón in Asturias, is working on the implementation of new bonuses for AP-66 users, a commitment that the minister ratified yesterday in her visit to Asturias. We are looking for formulas for specific bonuses for the Asturian reality, designed for the types of use of this infrastructure, which cannot be a calc of the other communities, but have to respond to the particularities of Asturian. There is a firm commitment to this, but it is very likely that you will vote against the 2022 budgets, which will be the fundamental tool for making this Asturian claim possible, as will the People's Party, of course. And there is a fourth reality, which is that in eight years of government of his party in Gijón they should have built a station and not, a work they should have bid in 2012. It was on that date that they broke all the consensus they had and spent seven years without moving a role. There's no trace in the city hall of this process. In the amendment we have recorded, we make it clear that a new agreement amending the one signed in 2019 for the integration of the railway in the city of Gijón must be agreed and processed as soon as possible, in accordance with the solution approved by the board of directors of Gijón to the North. There is a clear commitment from the Government of Spain, the Government of Asturias and the City of Gijón to these investments, because their launch is very important for the city, and not only for the city, but for the whole of Asturias, because this affects all sustainable mobility in Asturias. Citizenship asks us to look to the future, not the past, and if we stay in its position, it is impossible to move forward. A fifth reality, Mr Oblanca, is that the Valladolid-Palencia-Leon-Gijón rail axis has been incorporated into the Atlantic rail corridor of the trans-European transport network, so work will continue on that line. I would also like to highlight the commitment to investment in neighbourhoods: over 262 million will be invested in different actions in the coming months. Realities in the face of a negative view of Asturias. Let us look to the future, Mr Oblanca, because Asturias has a lot of futures, a future with capitals, and that is what Asturian citizenship demands of us. Let's not let them down. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u146	Good afternoon. Mr Oblanca, there are many ways to begin to respond to this motion that you raise, and one has to confess that you have a bit of the feeling of deja vu, but well, I will do it with the words of Francisco Barros, who is the chairman of Renfe Operadora's company committee. The words to which he referred, speaking of the AVE arriving in Uviéu and Xixon, said: With those 1600 or 1800 million euros we could reform everything and have the best proximity in Europe. Does Asturies need to get to Madrid in two and a half hours - look, does the train sound more ghostly than fantasy - or does it need to be well communicated so that those of us who live there can develop vital or business projects and do not feel the continuous uncertainty that exists of whether FEVE will pass the Caborana stop or the same today no longer happens? And, by the way, do Asturies need to finish the works of the Payares variant or prolong them further by that obsession of being no less than anyone to whom you so much appeal? You see, Asturias is no less than anyone, but it really hurts you to have such a high percentage of overcosts, because you're talking about the 37 billion, but those weren't the ones that were initially budgeted. Gentlemen, we have spent twice as much of what was budgeted for in works we have spent two decades on, 12 years behind schedule and several important and relevant environmental disasters. And now what you're telling us is that the solution is not finally to finish those works of Payares variant, but technical improvements, which sounds like technicians doing magic with a wand so that we can be between Madrid and Uviéu in two and a half hours? I'm telling you, I'm taking the train and two hours is what it takes at the AVE to get to Leon, and I find it very difficult that this could be done. But we have to finish these works that, by the way, started them, with that very high lack of planning, the founder of his party, Francisco Álvarez-Cascos. He'll understand that we couldn't stop saying it because with the intervention he's done, I almost want to take out of the file the photos in which we see him with a concrete palate next to the criminal Rodrigo Rato. The works of the variant were born as a demeanor. Now that - allow me the metaphor - it seems that almost the light is seen at the end of the tunnel, do you still want to extend them further? Let Asturias be no less than anyone else, but have you asked Asturias? Have you asked the neighbors what they want? Have you asked the platforms and the collectives? This question is raised on the basis of conscience. Even, don't ask, take the vicinity of Gijón and Laviana. In Unity We can defend the vertebration of the territory, the fight against territorial inequality between urban and rural populations. We know that there the railway is a fundamental ally and that it is the one that has to be vertebrating the territory, doing so with the duplication of adequate routes, with sufficient resources, with the guarantee that the service is fully accessible to all citizens. To that end, we agree that the outstanding budget lines on the Asturias network should be implemented and that agreements between the Asturias Government and the central Government should be complied with. On the Toll of the Huerna, I think you were saying that the minister is threatening 2050. The threat met was that, once again, Helmets will extend until 2050 a toll we had to stop paying this year. Do we have thirty more years ahead of us paying a toll that is absolutely unfair and that has already been covered with more by Asturians and Asturians? No, you see, we think that the removal of this issue is a matter of justice, because there was never a justification for its extension. But without losing sight of this, we are working in favour of any measure that offers a just and necessary economic relief for those who use this route. And speaking of transportation, in the time I have left, I'm going to make two more notes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have a mayor in Uviéu who seems to be drawn from a catalog of bad Disney, who sees no time to quote-catch Mount Naranco. Uviéu's neighbors have already said they don't pass by. And you know what he said? That he likes the mountain a lot. I guess that's why he digs it when he wants to. From here, our opposition to senseless size, alienated from the will of the citizenry, costly to say enough, and that it is to be seen to be truly useful to lighten the traffic of the area, especially when there are better options on the table. Our position is absolutely contrary. We are going to stand in front of the hole in Mount Naranco and the north round. And a second point, as an asturian and customary user, I want to transfer my support and solidarity to the two workers fired by Alsa, who remain unemployed despite the fact that the High Court of Justice of Asturias has already ruled that it was an improper dismissal. Our support for the mobilizations of the company committee, the demands and the mobilizations of the staff. We demand immediate readmission for these two fired persons. I'm done, Mr. Oblanca, I think we share and share a huge love for Asturias, both, but I want my country, Asturias, with its people, and I owe it to that social majority that demands services and better communications. That's what you're going to see me working on, but for pharaonic megaprojects and smoky, Asturias has had more than enough. There, we're not going to meet. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Applauds]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are debating a motion resulting from urgent questioning. In that motion, the Minister of Transport was asked a number of questions concerning the railway policy of the Government in Asturias, and the Minister, in her intervention, basically demonstrated an absolute ignorance of the issue and a superlative disregard not only for this House, but also for Asturias and the Asturians. In the end, it is more proof of what the welfare state of politicians is; and now you will see where the issue is going. The minister came and confused, to begin with, the name of the place where one of the tolls is located, the access to Asturias toll. He called it the Toll of Huerna. If I'd been there, even once, I'd know it was the Toll of the Huern. He also confused the gentleman who proposed the motion by calling him 'Mr.Oblea', when if he had spent five minutes reading the paper they had written to him, he would have seen that it was Mr.Oblanca. By the way, I send you a greeting, because it is of the undecentness that remains in your party and great worker for Asturias and in general for this Congress. [[Applauds]] And he confused not only that, but also the proponent party of the initiative, calling it 'the Forum', when it is Forum Asturias. Imagine any of the people who listen to us from their home, who dedicate themselves to the commercial sector, who have a little to sell, who go out to the market, who earn the bread; imagine, in short, that they arrive at a meeting with a potential customer and confuse their name, the name of their company and the name of the place to which they are referring. [[Applauds]] That person would not have sold a broom, and if he had had to report to a boss or whatever, he would have left on his feet to the ipso facto street. But as the minister lives in this state of the welfare of politicians, she does not pay the consequences of her mistakes; moreover, she is absolutely irresponsible for her mistakes, as have all previous politicians who have managed these infrastructures, both from the PP and the PSOE. I'll explain myself. The works of the AVE in Asturias begin in 2004, it is true, but the next act arrives in 2005, Government of Zapatero, lord of the PSOE. Year 2005, Zapatero government! These works had to have been completed in 2010, Zapatero's Government, and yet we find ourselves fifteen years later with the works still in operation. And you come here, Mr PSOE Member, who tells us about the great successes of PSOE management, beating yourself in the chest for that pilot trip as if it were the arrival of the AVE in Asturias. It will be necessary to see when the first passenger arrives in Asturias, because what has happened is a journey of tests that should have been carried out ten years ago. You should rather bend your head with shame for the delay that this work accumulates; delay not only in time, delay in money. Mrs Castañón gives some figures, which of course she does not understand - as it is obvious, because she knows about poetry and not about economy, it is logical - but the original work was projected at 1080 million euros and has cost 38 billion euros to date, to this day. I come back to the question: any private company engaged in construction, promotion, construction, housing or whatever, and arriving with a delay of 200 % in time and almost 300 % in cost, whoever had hired it would have litigated it as a bell, as I said in this house. [[Applauds]] But what's going on? That the welfare state of politicians benefits them: no one pays the duck, no one is responsible for this, no one has been disqualified from exercising political or public office after the disastrous management of this infrastructure. And this infrastructure I'm talking about, which is the AVE to Asturias, the high speed, Mrs. Castañón says we have to finish it because we're the same as the Asturians. No, you have to finish it because a play once it starts has to finish it as soon as possible, because time is money. Again, she does not know about the economy and does not understand these issues, it is obvious. Time is money, and the work, once started, must be put to surrender as soon as possible, to bring travelers, which is the objective, to bring goods, to connect Asturias, so that the steel that leaves Asturias can connect with the whole of Europe by train, even by boat. In short, the harmful management of infrastructure in Asturias, the AVE and all the others - the Nearies, indeed; the variant of Pajares, an absurd question; the Toll of the Huerna, also absurd the situation - is the result of the ineffectiveness of the management of all the successive politicians that have passed. And, Mrs Castañón, by the way, better to spend on infrastructure than on the absurd bable that comes to talk. No one says Lena's Pula, ma'am; Lena's Pula of all life. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u149	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u150	Good afternoon. Some of the demands of the Asturian society that are essential for us to emerge from the decadence in which successive socialist governments have plunged us are reflected in this motion for a Forum. We do not really ask any of you very much, just to conclude the projects that have been drawn up and start with the governments of the People's Party, both by Mr Aznar's Government and by Mr Rajoy's Government, and above all to conclude them well. I will briefly analyze each of the points. Yesterday, adorned with extensive propaganda, the works of the EVA tests in Asturias began. The propaganda has continued today - Mr. García Morís was not enough yesterday's propaganda - for, simply, evidence that will still last more than a year. I think that after seventeen years of delay there could have been so much fanfare and so much delay in asking for forgiveness; more than seventeen years to begin the tests of the AVE of third division or half hair, as Mr Martínez Oblanca has called it, because yes, Mr García Morís, it is a AVE of third. The European Union itself defines high rail speed as a means of transport linking the city centre with the centre of another city. Mr. Citizens: Yes, there are standards in the European Union on what high rail speed is. However, our AVE, the Asturian AVE is 30 kilometers from Oviedo and 50 kilometers from Gijón and Avilés. It is an AVE already diminished by itself, by socialist decision, since, as we always show, it is the only one throughout Spain that passes through three different platforms: international wide platform, Iberian-international mixed wide platform and Iberian wide platform. And, moreover, yesterday we are announced that in the variant will only be used in its beginning - in its beginning, but no longer in tests, but in its use - the Iberian width. Let us hope that they will well explain this negative decision, which involves greatly expanding travel times. We want to make it clear once again that it is essential that, in parallel with its commissioning as soon as possible, the works are being planned and carried out in order to bring the international width to the three cities and, in addition, a network of close proximity at high speed is planned that one of these three cities, as is the case throughout Europe. Mrs Castañón, it's not magic, it's simply engineering, as is the tunnel for the northern round of Oviedo; it's engineering: a tunnel that doesn't impact and that protects the Naranco and that, of course, we'll defend that it's done too far. [[Mrs Fernández Castañón utters words that are not perceived]] As far as the ports of Asturias are concerned, there is a pressing need to improve access, both road and rail connections. Activities should also be encouraged in the ports themselves. Linked to this, we have the Atlantic corridor, because if the exit by tunnel to the plateau of our goods is essential for the export of our products to the rest of Spain and for the saving of energy cost that implies not having to save the Cantabrian mountain range, it is equally important the exit of all our products to Europe that provides the aforementioned Atlantic corridor, as are for other regions the Mediterranean and central corridors that spill our country. In terms of proximity, more than the same, a service abandoned by the Government of Sánchez. I remember again that Mariano Rajoy's 2017-2025 Close-up Plan for Asturias would budget more than 600 million euros - in particular, for the biennium 2018-2019, more than 100 million euros - and that the socialist government barely executed a quarter. For this year, important items appeared in the budgets that have not been implemented. And now Mr. García Morís tells us to wait for next year's. We can't do this anymore. And we continue with the Roadmap, which seeks to elude the consensus on its location, the only successful one, which is in the vicinity of the Railway Museum. And I leave for the end the Toll of the Huerna. In March I asked the ministry about this subject and replied that it was not on its agenda. [[Show a document]] Asturias deserves and needs the same bonuses as other autonomous communities. Let us hope that the great demands for Asturias of Mrs Lastra or Mrs Castañón do not focus on what toll is written with equites, paxes, or on monitoring unreal toponymies in the AVE posters. The great demands are those that we have described and not others as a co-officiality that does not want 90% of Asturians, which is an imposition and that can only bring division to a united society such as Asturian. If they wanted Asturias something, they wouldn't act that way. But there they will find us, giving the battle to save Asturias from any geographical or linguistic isolation, and surely we will end up as Don Pelayo, thanking God and the Virgin of Covadonga for having achieved it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, will the motion be voted on in terms of incorporating the citizens' amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u152	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u153	All right. Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we are going to read out an institutional declaration for the volcanic eruption in La Palma. I ask, please, the second secretary of the table to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u154	Following the volcanic eruption suffered by the island of La Palma on Sunday, September 19, Congress and the Senate want to show their support and solidarity with all those people who, in one way or another, have been affected, especially those who have been displaced from their homes. The eruption of the Old Summit volcano is a phenomenon of nature that, thanks to scientific knowledge and the means of civil protection, has been followed from its earliest indications and has been able to avoid human losses. The Congress and the Senate want to highlight the coordinated work that from the first moment all the administrations involved have developed: municipalities, Cabildo de La Palma, Government of the Canary Islands and Government of Spain. In addition, they show their support to the technicians and scientists, the State security forces and bodies, the EMU, the Earth Army, in short, to all the public employees who are on the front line and to all the volunteerism of the civil protection system, as well as to the various organizations that continue to work to protect the inhabitants of the island and that have been concerned and involved all these days in safeguarding the integrity of the population of La Palma. Congress and the Senate urge the Government and all institutions to continue to make every effort to help affected citizens and to receive financial support as soon as possible in order to alleviate the consequences of the volcanic eruption on the island of La Palma. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u155	Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We are voting, first, on the proposal for a law, by the Socialist, Organic Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to penalize harassment of women who go to clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 64 plus 135 telematics votes, 199; against, 37 plus 107 telematics votes, 144; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u157	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the body for the reform of Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of Judicial Power, of Strengthening the Independence of Judicial Power and of Reform of Law 50/1981, of 30 December, for which the Organic Status of the Tax Ministry is regulated, in order to ensure the impartiality of its performance. [[File number 122/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-21-CD210921.u158	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress, Organic, on the reform of the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judiciary, on the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary and on the reform of Law 50/1981, of 30 December, which regulates the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, in order to ensure the impartiality of its action. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 242 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 38 plus 116 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 126 telematics votes, 190. The Madam President. Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Good afternoon, everyone. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty minutes of the night.
