ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, in the sense that the questions are discussed in accordance with the following order: items 22, 26, 23 24 and 25 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u2	This Presidency also submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, in the sense of including as the last item of the Thursday sitting the request for the plenary of the Chamber to approve the deliberation and final vote of the draft general telecommunications law. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic amendment to the Criminal Code on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs García López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we present a proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code on imprudent driving of motor vehicles or mopeds, the aim of which is to improve the legal security of victims of traffic accidents, because I have no doubt that they will share that a death on the road, a wounded person suffering from life limitations, injuries, pain and untimely sequelae deserves all due legal and moral attention. The initiative responds to a priority demand from the platforms, associations and collectives of the sector, as well as from specialized lawyers, due to the lack of defence in which pedestrians, cyclists or drivers have been found victims of traffic accidents, when, despite indications of serious recklessness, the case is closed because the courts consider it light and therefore lacking criminal responsibility, applying the loopholes left by the law in its interpretation. But why do vulnerable victims and groups consider this reform of the Criminal Code essential? Because, despite all the efforts that legislators have made here in the reform adopted in 2019, all victims' associations and lawyers have found the practice of systematic filing of all cases in which there is no special gravity, such as reckless driving or the presence of alcohol or drugs in the cause of the accident, especially when the victims suffered serious but non-debilitating injuries, which are those foreseen and described in article 147.1 of the Criminal Code. Look, I'm gonna give you a series of data. In 2020, 1370 people died in traffic accidents and more than 94,500 were injured. Of those who died, 50% were vulnerable: pedestrians, cyclists, users of personal mobility vehicles or drivers. Do you know what was the most concurrent and frequent factor in fatal accidents, for the fifth consecutive year? The distractions. The distractions were present in 31% of traffic accidents, alcohol in 27% and speed in 25%. Since 2019 there have been 3 points higher than that year, and alcohol and speed increase 2 points. The diversions - those distractions that by a deviation from the use of the norm are considered mild and therefore lacking criminal responsibility - have consequences for people's lives, sometimes fatal and unfortunately irreparable. What is surprising is that in 99% of cases these waste disposals are now absolutely unpunished, and you know why? Because they're systematically archived. The reality is that there are hardly any trials for less serious recklessness, due to a misunderstanding of the scope of the 2019 reform and, as if a deja vu were being dealt with, the reality is that we are returning to the pernicious reform of the People's Party of 2015, which it approved thanks to its absolute majority, against the unanimous vote of the rest of the political forces in this House, and which caused so much defence to the victims of road accident. Speaking to a lawyer specialising in road accident last week, after much fighting, he managed that in a court in Torrejón de Ardoz - one of the largest municipalities in Madrid -, following the timely appeal against the filing order issued by that same court, the Madrid Provincial Court forced a driver to be tried who caused injuries to his representative by considering that, according to the evidence, the driver had committed less serious recklessness. This lawyer told me that he was told in court that it was the first less serious imprudence trial to be held there, since that figure existed, that is, since the 2015 reform. From that six years ago and hundreds of cases have occurred, and one after another they have ceased without a minimum of instruction to clarify the seriousness of recklessness or the existence of harmful results. This shows how a reform has failed due to too restrictive an interpretation by judges and courts that invisibles the victims. The prosecutor of the Road Safety Coordinating Chamber said that a few months ago in parliamentary office. I was asking, why are these victims invisible? Because you don't see crime here as much as you do in other crime figures, because surely you haven't seen enough moral reproach for these behaviors. And, indeed, its opinion of 21 is aimed at implementing the 2019 reform, because a large number of serious recklessnesses with serious results for victims are filed in the courts, and the police or the Civil Guard do not raise a certificate because they are filed. That's what the D.A. said. What is the direct consequence? The victims are absolutely helpless, at the dawn of a very expensive, long and low capacity civil procedure for redress. Many times the victims complain that all the burden of proof of their injuries and all the burden of claiming compensation fall on their backs, without anyone helping them, increasing their suffering, the suffering of their family, and assuming all the risks they have with their assets to fight against large corporations. Ladies and gentlemen, a victim of road accident has all the legitimacy to summon us as legislators and force us to give the best possible response to his situation, and we are not just talking about a right, we are talking about humanity. With this reform, several objectives are achieved. First, to give a message to society that there is no impunity behind the wheel when we commit an offence that causes victims. We cannot allow him to hold back the belief that if we are insured there will be no personal liability, even exceeding the allowed speed, because for that he already takes care of all the insurance. With the tightening of sanctions and the point system in the recent reform of the Road Safety Act, it cannot, in any case, consider the criminal sphere as such. It's cheaper to skip a traffic light and kill a person than to skip a traffic light and stop a cop who's seen you take it off. Secondly, a much simpler procedure is made available to the courts, by reducing the penalties to one month's fine when injury under section 147.1 is caused by less serious imprudence. Thus, a minimum criminal response is given in accordance with the existing legal principle, but it also facilitates access to the courts for the majority of persons, who will not necessarily need a lawyer and prosecutor to defend their rights and to be protected as victims of crime. This brings back the social protection system that existed in the old misdemeanour trial, which was repealed with the 2015 reform. All the experts say that it was a mistake to repeal the faults, because it was the first response of society - minimum response - when the social order is violated, which had a huge preventive effect, since it was avoided that the person responsible for the sin would be considered unpunished, having to answer to the courts with a minimum penalty, which was tremendously dissuasive in order to commit major crimes. And third, it is a protection for the vast majority of victims because they will be considered victims of crime with a very defined protection status. With the proposed reform we aim at the work of the judges and courts, who will verify whether an offence classified as serious in the Road Safety Act has been committed, clarifying the seriousness of the recklessness and the existence of harmful results, optimizing the criminal response to road accidents and the protection of victims. In addition, it will help the decongestion of the courts, because in the vast majority of cases, through a very simple trial and a really practical and rapid process, the elements in favour of the victims will be able to arrive even at penalties for conformity, without the need for trial, but with a conviction to the cause of the accident and the full reparation of civil responsibilities. A trial for a minor offence takes much less time in justice than an ordinary civil declarant. For all this, we ask you to take this bill positively into consideration. We will have time in your parliamentary procedure for the debate, and we will certainly be able to reach great agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, when we put ourselves in control of a motor vehicle, we must be aware at all times that if we neglect, if we do not respect traffic regulations or lose our way with the mobile, we can generate a tragedy that causes injuries or even the death of a person with a name and surname, with family and loved ones, and with it irreparably part of ourselves will also die. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a legislative amendment which is necessary to promote greater protection for victims of traffic accidents, to be adequately compensated and also to avoid an incorrect judicial interpretation due to the inaccuracies arising from our existing legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight to reduce road accidents has been a constant one; indeed, in the course of the century the General Courts have been carrying out tasks to improve our legal framework around road safety, updating and adapting different laws to a sadly growing reality, such as road accidents, which in a few cases have a frightening consequence of the failure to help the victims and in which, in the face of legislative loopholes, impunity abounded, as Mrs García López pointed out in her speech. Hence the importance yesterday, today and tomorrow of developing and encouraging changes in the interests of greater prevention of disaster and in the interests of victims and their families. In the 12th Legislature we were encouraged by the enormous task of the civic platform By a fair law, with which the victims, the family members, many bike lovers and the support of more than two hundred thousand citizens - with their signature and tenacity - called for legislative changes to avoid misleading judicial interpretations with which, on few occasions, the serious criminal conduct resulting from the failure to provide relief to the wounded was left unpunished. Those adjustments in the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, were made on the basis of a consideration that, with very high support, practically unanimous here in Congress, began in September 2017 the parliamentary process that will end in the Senate at the end of February 2019 for publication a few days later. There is the Organic Law 2/2019, of 1 March, amending the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Penal Code, on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds and sanctioning the abandonment of the place of the accident. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a matter which calls for the memory of the many victims of death and their families, many victims with injuries and sequelae of enormous gravity and their families. In short, a great deal of suffering. It alleviates their sentences, but it is important to know that there are people, officials, associations and agencies who are alert and alert to try to respond to the drama and, where possible, implement measures to prevent accidents and protect the rights of victims and their relatives. In this regard, the explanatory statement makes a relevant reference to the interesting appearance of the Prosecutor of the Road Safety Coordinating Chamber, Mr Vargas Cabrera, who was held in the Road Safety Committee on 26 April and, passing on, we should be pleased that we have such a delicate and complex field of expertise, as well as a large number of public servants who are active in promoting greater social awareness of the transgressive conduct of traffic and traffic regulations. It is true - and has been insisting on this for a long time - that the desirable thing would be that there would be, from the most basic levels of education, and also over time, a greater culture of safety and road safety. This is a subject in which we still have a broad field to develop that affects not only children and adolescents, but also adults, because obtaining a driving licence or its renewal should be accompanied by an update of knowledge in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our legal framework is concerned, it is reasonable to polish those legislative aspects that have been highlighted. This afternoon's proposal promotes the amendment of the Criminal Code, which now leaves to the judge or court the subjective assessment of the existence of the crime, and goes into the file. It was not, I believe, the intention with which the latest legislative changes were drafted, given the desirability of clarifying the wording of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in two of its articles, 142 and 152, as set out in this consideration which I will support with my vote, and whose handling by the General Courts may be an opportunity to continue to incorporate improvements in the legislation on a subject in which there are new and increasing risks with the arrival on our roads, especially in urban centres, of new vehicles in the form of electric skateboards, for which there are currently no requirements for their circulation and yet there are consequences on the safety of other vehicles and also on pedestrians. In any case, I will support this proposal for legislative amendment with my vote. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u8	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of an initiative proposing the amendment of a reform of the Criminal Code in 2019 by Organic Law 2/2019, in which, inter alia, a delimitation of the concept of less serious imprudence in the use of motor vehicles or mopeds was introduced as a result of death or injury. In this reform of the Criminal Code, through Organic Law 2/2019, we introduced the presumption that it constitutes a less serious criminal imprudence in driving a motor vehicle when the death or injury caused is the result of a serious violation of traffic regulations. And I say it was a presumption, because it was left to the judge, to the court that could deactivate it through the assessment of the criminal imprudence entity, taking into account the circumstances of the particular case. Thus, if the presence of a serious traffic offence is in principle a case of less serious criminal imprudentness, this does not prevent that there cannot be other causes of less serious imprudence, such as very serious traffic offences which do not meet the requirements of the case law for serious criminal imprudence, or which are not conceivable cases in which the presence of a serious traffic offence is found and we are not faced with a less serious criminal imprudence, because the duty of foresight or diligence has not been disregarded before an activity which has caused the harmful result. This is because traffic offences are not linked, as in reckless criminal conduct, to the violation of the duty of care of the cause of the damage, either because of the breach of the duty of foresight or diligence before an activity in specific circumstances, in the case of less serious misconduct, or because of the absolute lack of foresight and care, or because of the more intolerable omission of the diligence causing a harmful result, in the case of serious criminal recklessness. Therefore, the presumption laid down in articles 142 and 152.2 of the Criminal Code can be deactivated through the initiation of proceedings by the judge or the investigator to investigate and decide on grounds and to reason why, in a concrete case, negligence does not have sufficient force to overcome slight imprudence, to reach the least serious criminal or even the grave. Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, we do not see fit the proposed regulatory change, which consists in completely disabling the criminal court from applying the existing criminal, legal, doctrinal and jurisprudence criteria to determine whether the conduct of the person tried is reckless and in what case. As the Supreme Court has pointed out in its judgment 421/2020 of 22 July of the Plenary of the Second Section, which I echoed in what I have stated, to claim the automaticism proposed to us is to leave the judge and the court as a slave of administrative cataloguing, a resurrection of the already disappeared simple recklessness with violation of regulations, to generate an absolute dependence on the criminal classification of the imprudence of administrative cataloguing, a completely rejectable automaticism and a sybaritism of the criminal norm with respect to administrative. As a result, in the case of trafficking, in these cases, there is no slight imprudence, which is not compatible with the Civil Code, and in the case of liability, non-contractual or aquilian articles 1200, 1902 et seq., which would not happen in any other regulation of the Criminal Code, except in the case of trafficking, which we do not think is appropriate, since we must not forget that criminal law is the right of the last ratio, a right called to be applied when another branch of the legal system cannot respond to conflicts in society. Ladies and gentlemen, for all that has been said, it does not seem to us that these loopholes should be eliminated in the hands of the judges and courts - as is stated in the explanatory statement - and that the law leaves to the dawn of those who use it in a subjective and routine way, since it is part of an essential aspect of criminal law, as is the concept of recklessness and its different content throughout its different meanings in the very different penal reforms that have been in place since time immemorial. Finally - and I am finalizing, Madam President - we will not support the initiative either because, on such a complex issue, the lack of any kind of report or documentation supporting a change in the proposed timetable, beyond the brief statement of reasons, with assertions not always documented, makes it difficult for us to do so; especially when in the memories of the Office of the Prosecutor since the reform of Law 2/19, including the last one presented just two months ago, and as far as road safety is concerned, since it is an annual fixed section, nothing is proposed, at least so far, regarding the reform of Organic Law 2/19 and much less in the sense contained in the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u10	Thank you, President, Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The reform of the Penal Code before us fills a gap that has occurred in the Spanish penal system since 2015 within the concrete framework of reckless acts, with the result either of death, that is to say, reckless homicides, or of bodily injury or physical or mental health damage; that is, they objectively require for their health, in addition to a first optional assistance, surgical medical treatment that involves the loss or futility of a principal organ or member or a sense, impotence, sterility or serious deformity or somatic or psychic disease, that causes the loss or futility of a non-principal organ or member or its deformity. In that year, in 2015, the reform of the Criminal Code was approved by Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, which entailed decriminalization, i.e. the departure from the Criminal Code as specific types of criminal law order of offences. In fact, the third book was totally repealed, with all the offences constituting either minor offences, or acts that were directly brought before the civil court on the grounds that they were no longer of criminal relevance. Subsequently, through Organic Law 2/2019, the Criminal Code was reformed for these two relevant cases of homicide and injuries, caused by the use of motor vehicles or mopeds in the face of the great social demand for greater punishment for such acts, by increasing the number of fatalities or serious injuries in traffic accidents where there was imprudence in driving vehicles and mopeds. [[The lady]] This reform of 2019 sought to resolve the reduction in the defence of victims of traffic accidents by eliminating the decriminalization of the slight imprudence remaining in the civil sphere, i.e. at the disposal of the victim, obviously, but without the support and presence of the prosecutor's office alongside those victims of traffic accidents, who should start a civil judicial claim in case of personal injury due to a slight imprudence. This reform of 2019, therefore, ends with the legislative will of 2015 to have a minimum judicial guardianship that, in the criminal field, was provided to all victims of traffic accidents, including those of slight recklessness before 2015, by criminalizing the fault for slight recklessness that, after the reform of Organic Law 1/2015, was left without criminal coverage. Moreover, the 2019 reform left the investigating judge the decision to consider that a homicide or entity injury could be equally unpunished in the criminal field if he did not feel serious or less serious imprudence from the very beginning. This reform again penalizes recklessness of all kinds if the result is death or relevant injury, because it is no longer the decision of the investigating judge to observe whether the recklessness is serious or less serious or, if so, light, with what would remain outside the penal framework. With the reform, all recklessness will be objectively criminal, provided that we are faced with an infringement of those considered serious by the Road Safety Act. With this in mind, criminal liability is being pursued, the judge is given less scope when making a subjective decision, given that the application of the criminal type of articles 142, alleged homicide, and 152, entity injuries, in cases of imprudent driving a vehicle or a moped, are better and to a greater extent, and provided that we are faced with an offence classified as serious by traffic and road safety regulations. This reform is welcome because, at last, justice is returned to the victims of traffic accidents, who since the 2015 reform and despite the 2019 reform, saw how in the face of death or injury due to serious violations of traffic rules, the act was seen as a slight imprudence, and was criminally helpless in the face of offenders. This was also due to the possibility that the examining magistrates would determine the existence of a slight imprudence without carrying out minimal investigative work on the circumstances of the accident in order to determine the seriousness of the imprudence committed by the drivers. To resort to the civil route has forced many victims, beyond the trauma caused by the situation experienced, to resort to the costs of medical experts because they are unable to resort to the forensic doctor - who does act in the case of criminal investigation -, thus undermining the recognized right of the victims, also those of slight imprudence, in the Statute of the Victims of Crime approved by Law 4/2015. This corrects, in our view, a negative legal application of the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law which had become in practice, in the case of alleged deaths or injuries due to minor recklessness in traffic accidents, a real impunity. In short, the principle of legality and criminality is better respected with this reform, reducing the margin of judicial discretion on a subject as important as that of victims of trafficking. Ladies and gentlemen, we recently reformed the Road Safety Act and did so precisely so that safety on our roads would be greater, that there would be fewer and fewer victims, that there would be fewer crimes and fewer infections, especially the mild ones that often occur with the mopeds themselves. I believe that this reform - here we must congratulate the Socialist Party for having brought it to the plenary - is the one that is waiting for all the victims, it is a reform that stands on the side of the victims, something that we always had in mind that we were working on that road safety presentation a few weeks ago. Therefore, we understand that this probably closes the cycle of needs that are expressing all victims of traffic accidents and I think that perhaps we have put - I don't know if for the first time, but of course in this legislature we have done it a few times - ahead of the real interest of the victims and not other darker interests that some of your ladies and gentlemen might know. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u11	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u12	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we find this proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code in a matter that mixes the two worlds, the world of the Criminal Code and the world of road safety, whose origin - as has already been pointed out here and also in the explanatory statement - comes also from the analysis of the configuration of these criminal types in the reform of the Criminal Code carried out by Organic Law 1/2015, or Organic Law 2/2019, the last reformed law on this issue. The judgment of the Supreme Court, Judgment 2533/2020 of 22 July, in which it is true that it points to the need for this element of judicial valuation around imprudence, has also been previously pointed out. But it is also true that it points to the possibility that complaints of a traffic accident should continue to be criminally prosecuted until at least the extent of the injuries is contradicted. This reality, despite the configuration of these types in 2015 and 2019, has not occurred. [[The lady]] In fact, the Office of the Special Prosecutor for Road Safety did point to this issue, since its Opinion 1/2021 strongly criticized the decisions on free dismissal in this area and some of them, too, without any practice of any kind of diligence. At the very least, therefore, it is necessary to reconsider whether this legal configuration meets the real will to protect in the field of road safety in the field of these accidents. The legal reality that we are trying to begin to modify here would have to correspond to the commitments that we have all been making on road safety: road safety, accident prevention, care for victims and their families. In short, it is a question of responding to what is a genuine call to life and to a safer society with an education and means to make of these disasters - which we have assumed, practically, as normal of our day to day - as facts of the past and not of the future that we desire among all. That is why we welcome the initiative and will vote in favour of it, not without putting the table on the table - that is why we think it is interesting that the relevant parliamentary procedure should take place - some issues to consider. On the one hand, we have the feeling that direct attribution to the courts of instruction of this matter can end up resurrecting those so-called traffic fault judgments and, therefore, those that had been made earlier. On the other hand, we have doubts and want to examine in depth whether the victims are sufficiently guaranteed their defence with this expectation that they must appear without a lawyer and a prosecutor, if the defence of their interests is really guaranteed, since they do not compete before the courts with qualified professionals and who can ensure, better than anyone else, to defend their interests. Still, I just wanted to make you a final lawsuit. Many of the issues raised in the explanatory statement have their door to the legislative technique, no doubt. We are faced with a very concrete proposal for a law, with a very specific amendment and very focused on a specific area and articles, for which, without a doubt, an optimal legislative technique is required, but it is not the only requirement and this is the final demand that I wanted to put to you. Many of the issues raised in the explanatory statement, such as this reality of file books, from the outset, or this routine file, are due not only to the legal configuration given in the Criminal Code, but also to the reality of courts in which human, material and economic means are lacking in order to deal with matters with the rigour that is necessary. Therefore, although the content of the proposal for a law is somewhat elusive, I believe it is also rigorous to note that demand is not only to improve technically, but also to call for a genuine commitment of means for justice to actually work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I will be very brief, very brief in my speech. I have been relatively short in this House since 2018, and I have seen a few reforms of the Criminal Code. Our parliamentary group has said to the satisfaction that things cannot be solved by a coup d'état of reform of the Penal Code, first, because Spain has one of the most punitive penal codes in Europe, and second, because our legal system already tells us that the Spanish Penal Code is of the last ratio, that is, that it is ultimately applied. It is clear that we share the need to legislate with the aim of ending impunity when a driver involved in a traffic accident leaves the scene both if the victim has suffered injuries and if he has died. However, Esquerra Republicana is not going to miss again the opportunity to make a criticism of this way of legislativeizing, not because it is a proposal for a law, but because nobody escapes that we already have more than thirty amendments to the Penal Code of 1995, more and more resembles the old consolidated texts of the Penal Code and of all these reforms some have had some validity that have not reached a month. It is clear that someone could have realized that there had been this problem for a very long time, because social demand is not from now on, it is from many years ago. As some say, the Penal Code does not cease to be the negative Constitution. The Socialist Group has here argued to us the need to bring this reform because it has remained a void of the previous one, of 2019, and which is done at the request of the collectives, platforms, etc. But this parliamentary group does not have a request for the 2019 reform, nor does it have a clear record - as the Basque parliamentary group's colleague has said - of what percentage of court cases lead to civil proceedings. Therefore, we do not really know this situation, but what we do know is the need for more road education, as we have shown during the work of amending the Traffic Act, that our colleague Inés Granollers was able to defend so well, highlighting the importance of road knowledge from schools at all ages, as well as the training of teachers who deliver it, unlike the Socialist Party, since by agreeing with Citizens in the Senate, self-schools are almost loaded. What we must do is all we can, not to punish - which must also be done when necessary - but to prevent accidents. In short, we are not going to act as the Socialist Group, which has vetoed us against a lot of considerations and has not allowed many initiatives of the Republican Parliamentary Group to be debated in this House. We, by responsibility, will support this process and we will see what happens during the presentation, because our group has nothing clear that this initiative is really necessary. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u16	Thank you very much, President. The proposed organic law that we are dealing with here today is very brief but has a great social and legal significance. Firstly, because of the subject that it deals with, since road safety is not just any issue. When we talk about road safety, we're talking about saving lives. In Spain, we can be proud of the reforms that started more than fifteen years ago and that have also made us a European-level country, thanks also to the consensus of all the parliamentary groups when they refer to these debates. Before the implementation of the point card, in 2006 3367 people died in Spain and in 2020 the number of dead was 1370, the difference is enormous. Let us think of all the lives we can save with public road safety standards and policies. We are addressing a problem of enormous political significance. Road safety offences accounted for 66,648 judicial convictions in 2020, accounting for 31% of all offences. On the other hand, it is not a time to relax because the data of the deceased in 2020 are much worse than those of 2019. Some causes may logically be related to the completion of COVID measures. That is why it is important for this House to assume responsibility. We did so earlier this month by amending the Traffic, Motor Vehicle Circulation and Road Safety Act, and today we can also do so taking into consideration this bill. In this case, it is proposed to reform the Criminal Code. I think it is good to remember that in a democratic society the principles of minimum intervention and the ultimate ratio of criminal law must be respected. We are used to hearing too many politicians and opinionators say that complex problems are always solved by hardening the penalties. Therefore, in the face of punitive populism, we must affirm the need for the Criminal Code to intervene only when there is no more effective and reasonable solution; we must also defend all criminal and procedural guarantees, and we must make serious and rigorous analyses of every proposal that seeks to reform the Criminal Code. At the same time, all public authorities must have sensitivity and empathy with the victims, and especially with the victims of traffic accidents because they are most likely not to have the recognition they deserve. These collectives are made up of people who have suffered a great deal and who devote their time and effort to avoiding new tragedies and to ensuring the safety of all. That is why we must listen to them and attend to them at all times as they deserve. Of course, I also believe that as legislators we should listen to other expert voices, in particular those who are day-to-day applying the rules that we here adopt. In this sense, this proposal of law is very influenced - I would say - by what happens every day in judicial practice and in the considerations that the prosecutor has been transferring from Sala Coordinador de Seguridad Vial. The object of this proposal that we are discussing has already been explained here. What is involved with this reform is to provide legal certainty for trafficking offences committed on the basis of less serious negligence. By deleting the final paragraph of articles 142.2 and 152.2, what is achieved is to reduce judicial arbitrage and ensure the principle of typicality. For everyone to understand this, what this reform seeks is to avoid judicial interpretations that may result from the filing of cases that do deserve a criminal charge. To this end, it is clear that it is less serious negligence in general, something that all legal operators will appreciate because, I insist, what we are doing is providing legal certainty. This initiative is a demand from experts and also from groups of victims of traffic accidents. Of course, other challenges beyond the scope of this proposal remain. It remains to be made further progress in measures that protect cyclists and make bicycles a safe, sustainable and widespread means of transport, as has been claimed by ConBici or the Bicycle Defence Coordinator, among many other collectives. I'm finishing up. I ended up as I started, warning that public security rules and policies save lives and that today - I think there will be consensus - we all have to work together to give society, the experts, what they are demanding of us. Taking advantage of the fact that I have more than a minute left, I would also like to wish all your ladies and gentlemen a happy holiday and that the year 2022 will bring us at least more health, which is the most important thing for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u18	Thank you, President. Today who should be in this rostrum is my colleague and friend José Alcaraz, because for years he has denounced the impunity of the traffickers and fought for the defense of the victims. Thank you, José, for the defense of the victims, the real victims, the victims of reckless driving, the victims of ETA criminal terrorism, and for the defense of all those who ended up being victims of those who should be serving life imprisonment, but are released by a government committed - never better said - to liberating murderers, rapists and kamikazes. [[applause]] Thank you, Joseph, for dedicating your life with Mamen, your wife, to the struggle for dignity and justice. Not everything has been in vain, surprisingly the PSOE has echoed one of your demands and intends to partially remedy the lack of protection of victims of traffic accidents and the impunity of the offenders caused by the reform of the People's Party in 2015. A glorious year for you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for you signed the Sustainable Development Goals, which condemned Spain for the end of sovereignty; you failed to fulfil the promise to repeal the PSOE's abortion law; the Gürtel oral trial was opened, and you reformed the Criminal Code leading victims of trafficking offences to judicial cavalry. They looked, ladies and gentlemen. To correct now the mistake of the People's Party with the anchoring to the criminal track of some traffic offences is a step forward in terms of the agility of the process, but agility, ladies and gentlemen, is not synonymous with justice. [[Applauds]] It would be no more to reflect on whether the convictions of those offenders who, under the effects of alcohol and drugs, take the lives of others are just. Look at these creepy headlines. [[shows a press clipping]] A father commits suicide after knowing the mild sentence that condemns the kamikaze who killed his son to only eight years in prison. Can you imagine what that father felt to decide to take his life? Is there justice for that mother and that widow? Can you imagine how that woman feels? Can you imagine, ladies? I'm saying it because the rules that make this sentence come out of here, out of this room. So please make an effort and try to imagine. Two drugged pilots compete in the M30, one crashes and kills another driver. They were taking part in an illegal race, going 200 kilometers an hour. Can you imagine the pain of these families? Is it fair that these criminals are on the street? Just yesterday, three years after the death of a thirty-two-year-old neighbor of Barrado, province of Cáceres, was completed. The cyclist was run over by a driver who had used cannabis, amphetamines and cocaine. He was sentenced to three years and three months in prison. Can any of you assure me that I am not the one to meet this gentleman any Thursday when I return to Cáceres? Today, my parliamentary group, VOX, wants to make an appeal to common sense. You have to listen to the voices screaming outside these privileged walls. There is an infinite distance between the political will and the real needs of the Spaniards; there is an infinite distance between the manoeuvres of the Ministry of the Interior and the security to which the citizenry is entitled; there is an infinite distance between the respect that our security forces deserve and the continuous abuses that they are receiving, and there is an infinite distance between the reality and the perception of this Government. There is no justice that compensates victims of traffic accidents, there is no justice for family members following these insignificant or even non-existent convictions, too many victims feel doubly victimized: victims of tragedy and victims of injustice. The legislator must always take care of the interests of those to whom he administers, in order to guarantee constitutional rights, and not on the contrary, for welfare, and, above all, compensate, to the extent possible, persons who suffer physical and moral damage. That is how my parliamentary group works. At the time, we will present the appropriate amendments to this reform of the Criminal Code, but you have lost precious time. So far, only the debts of their repugnant pacts have been paid. It's about time to think about the victims who can't explode. So far, ladies and gentlemen, you have only made progress in ideological and sectarian laws, you have devoted yourselves to legislating on manoeuvres, on the mandates of an ideological agenda that goes against the needs of the Spanish. Traffic needs a worthy minister and not a minister obsessed with liberating criminals. Spain deserves people willing to give themselves fully to the pursuit of the common good and non-governing criminals. The street asks us to legislate by imagining that the killer or the kamikaze is with our relatives or with ourselves. That's how we do it, and that's why there's only VOX left. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Nevado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gamazo Micó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This reform does not go beyond what Mrs Nevado of the Socialist Group and Mrs Nevado of the VOX Group have told us. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are driving quietly - imagine yourself, Mr García, Mr Delgado, Mr Gutiérrez and Mrs Nevado - respecting all speed limits and suddenly hitting a person who leaves you recklessly in front of your vehicle and does not give you time to react. The person died and his vehicle has not passed ITV for days. If this PSOE proposal succeeds, the driver - you, Mrs García, Mrs Nevado - could be responsible for a crime of reckless homicide, because the imprudence of the pedestrian will not devalue the driver's less serious imprudence, a true barbarity that is what you are defending today. This example is sufficient to show that this initiative undermines all the guarantees of people who are involved in a traffic accident by creating genuine defencelessness among citizens. That is why we do not share the purpose of the proposition, which is nothing other than to turn the judge or court into slaves of a mere administrative cataloguing made by an ordinary law. To delete the paragraph referring to the need for the judge to appreciate the entity of imprudentness is to charge the guarantee that the application of administrative sanctions to criminal sanctions is not automated, an automation that is rejectable by the Supreme Court itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a proposal that is unnecessary, because today we have adequate criminal protection of road traffic. There is currently no need for a criminal policy to focus on these reckless behaviors when the 2019 reform has only been in effect for twenty-two months. These reckless behaviors modify a consensual reform that in 2019 received the support of more than 80% of this House, to which they voted against only the Lords of Podemos. By the way, Mr Delgado, they were then opposed to the excessive objective of less serious imprudentness, because this would mean returning to the overly simple imprudence by infringing regulations. But you, as good Marxists who are, have these principles and, if you don't like them, have others. It should be remembered that the Organic Law 2/2019 - it seems that the deputy of VOX has not found out; she should learn a little more about how it was worked -, which is the one that is intended to amend now, not that of 2015, was a law promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group, a moderate and prudent law that started from the principle of minimal intervention of criminal law, strengthening and increasing the criminal response in road traffic, a more adequate and firmer response to intolerable and censorable facts and behaviors, all to protect the life, integrity and dignity of the victims of road accidents. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, your proposal may be well-intentioned, but it is not the right answer to ensure the protection of the moral and economic rights of the victims. Searching the penal shelter exclusively for the speeding up of the proceedings is barbaric. That is why this proposal seeks to convert criminal instruments into instruments for speeding up proceedings. This preposition also denotes the failure of your Government, Mr Sánchez's Government, which, with three ministers of justice since arriving in Moncloa after the motion of censure 1299 days ago, has shown that it has no interest in formulating a solution for the handling of traffic accidents within the area of exclusively civil liability. It is a failure that the socialist bench tries to mask with this proposal of law that converts the courts of Instruction into automatic tools for the processing of claims. And if we talk about your explanatory statement, let me highlight your misguided and furious criticism of the judges for not defending the victims of road accident, according to your opinion. They say that judges file cases despite the fact that there are signs of crime and that they stop indiscriminately. What a clear lack of respect for justice, ladies and gentlemen. They have also criticized the 2015 reform, which the road safety prosecutor defended because the decision was correct under the principle of indeterminateness. It was an instrument to facilitate negotiations without compliance with punitive intervention, and the deputy prosecutor defended that reform of 2015. In the presentation we are also told about the office that the prosecutor referred to the traffic police, but forget this opinion that the prosecutor referred to all prosecutors, where he gave instructions on how to act and talked about the interpretation of the Supreme Court ruling 421/2020 of 22 July, on the unification of doctrine. [[shows it.]] It is a sentence that you ignore, just like this opinion, because, if not, it would be more than justified - you yourself will justify it - to vote against this consideration. This judgment, in its fifth legal basis, excludes an absolute dependence on the criminal classification of imprudence with regard to administrative cataloguing, which qualifies it as less precise and more as a fatty brush. It is a proposition, as I have told you, unnecessary, inaccurate and also unjust and dangerous, because it is obvious that situations of occurrence of guilt and recklessness can occur in the reckless crime, including sometimes that of the victim himself. The simple violation of administrative legislation and of the thirty-two conducts that are included as serious violations in the Traffic Act cannot in itself be sufficient, necessary and automatic condition for the application of the less serious imprudence, as the honourable Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group defend here today. I'm finishing up, President. In addition, the socialists seek to lower the penalty for the injuries in article 152, with the justification that the victim does not have to appoint a lawyer or prosecutor. Unheard of. It's already the top. Socialists do not trust judges or the guarantees of legal defence. Furthermore, I do not know whether they have learned that, however laudable it is to try to simplify the process, there is no point in reducing the penalties for hammering the matter into the type of procedure they are interested in. Nor do they change only the requirements in the road field, but change them, by lowering the penalties, in all areas, also in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time in the government and instead of introducing this bill, they should have drafted a bill that provides for a simplified civil procedure that gives satisfactory answers to the victims of road accidents, because we can all be victims and because, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that the moral and economic rights of the victims - we can all be victims - we all defend them, all Members, but we must never be confused with the criminal response. Our criminal law must be to help protect all people who use the road network, pedestrians, cyclists, skateboard users and drivers of motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u21	Mr. Gamazo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u22	Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Gamazo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the Agency for Force and Security Corps Returns, AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1986 OF 13 MARCH. [[File number 122/00151]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u24	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which is an organizational body responsible for the salaries of the Security Forces and Bodies, amending Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u25	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress today brings to debate the proposal for an organic law on the remuneration of security forces and bodies, amending Law 2/1986. There is a commitment by the People's Party to the forces and security forces to complete the process of wage equality initiated by the agreement signed on 12 March 2018 by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. The salary equalization agreement addressed the process of gradual equalization of the economic conditions of the National Police and Civil Guard officers over those enjoyed by the autonomous police. To this end, a three-year scenario was established, in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government party, we are tired of hearing you talk about the bubble in the drawer. This agreement was in the BOE, gentlemen of the PSOE, and in the General Budgets of the State that Rajoy approved in 2018, with 506 million euros, and which you have limited to executing and extending. That's why they have no choice but to fulfill it. But see if it was not in a drawer and that this agreement existed and that it is binding that only a few weeks ago the Supreme Court issued a due diligence by which AUGC's appeal against the inactivity of the State Administration for breach of clause 8 of the equalization agreement is allowed to proceed. It's like the bubble of the troops. But the data kills the story. Stop lying. According to their answers sent to us every week, theirs, today there are only 1303 more civilian guards than when they kicked us out of the government and 4026 more police, not 13,000. They continue to have the same replacement rate as the Government of Mariano Rajoy approved, without increasing it and without updating the catalogues. All they do is cheap propaganda. Today there are three clauses in the wage equalization agreement that are still not met. The first clause, in which the Secretariat of State was obliged to conduct an external consultancy to ensure total and absolute wage equality. And it was done, but it didn't like and it was discarded, and it was hidden even at the Congress of Deputies, where we have been waiting for three years to see the first audit that was made. Moreover, they denied having paid it, and now we know that it cost more than 100,000 euros and that they have paid it. Another clause that was not met is that EUR 300 million would be added to the pool of second-activity national police and reserve civilian guards, which has not yet been done. And, recently, in the PP's amendments to the State General Budgets we requested 100 million euros, and you voted no. The third non-compliance clause, the eighth clause, which establishes the obligation of the Ministry of the Interior to promote legislative measures that are necessary to ensure that in the future there can be no wage dysfunction with the rest of the police forces performing the same functions. Regrettably, the socialist government that emerged from the 2018 motion of censure and the subsequent communist social coalition have blocked compliance with the commitment to pass a pay bill that will implement an equal wage model for all police forces. This lack of compliance with the commitment set out in clause 8 is the fundamental reason to promote the legal amendment contained in this proposal of organic law, to promote the establishment of legal measures that prevent inequality in the retributive regime of security forces and bodies. The proposal for a law is made under article 149.129 (a) of the Constitution, which establishes as the exclusive competence of the State the security of citizens, in relation to article 104.1 of the Constitution, according to which an organic law will determine the functions, basic principles of action and statutes of the security forces and bodies. The fundamental reason that has allowed an unequal and unfair remuneration model among the different Spanish police officers has been the nullity of this essential aspect of the status of official personnel of the security forces and bodies. The Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies regulates practically all the essential aspects of its staff status, such as professional promotion, work arrangements, unions, incompatibilities, responsibility; however, and inconsistently with the rest of the text, one of the essential aspects of the staff status of any official, i.e. the remuneration model, was not regulated in this law. It is incomprehensible that, as well as the management of the autonomous police - Mossos d'Esquadra and Ertzaintza - is the responsibility of the autonomous governments, which incurs the costs of personnel, who pays, to say the least, the Ministry of the Interior, in the Basque case, discounting it from the quota and in the Catalan case through transfers. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that being the same payer and performing the same work cover differently. We ask no more or less, we ask the same thing. The system respects the competences of all administrations by establishing that they will participate in the retributive proposal of the Security Policy Council, as well as in the negotiation with all representatives of security forces and corps officials through the General Bureau of Public Administrations. The PSOE government, if today votes against the handling of this bill, will once again show us the nauseous handling of security policy, converted into a party instrument and a currency of exchange for negotiation with its partners in Bildu, Catalan independence and Podemos. Scratch a few votes: anything to follow in the Moncloa. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, they ally themselves with Podemos, who only defend the rights of those who think like them; the right to protest seems sacred to them, except when they protest against them, and now try to gag the State Security Forces and Bodies in Europe. But who do you think you are, gentlemen of Podemos, to grant that right that is set out in the Constitution? But who do you think you are to ban workers, police and civilian guards, to defend their legitimate rights? They will be able to do so in Venezuela or Cuba, but not in Spain; they will never ban anyone, whoever they are - police or civilian guards - from the right to manifest themselves. Make it clear to them. [[Applauds]] They can't and can't ever. As they attack the police and want to gag her, they ask for more agents for Galapagar's capplons or for Minister Garzón's holiday in Scotland. Be consistent, gentlemen of Podemos. If you don't want them, you all give up the escorts you have and, thus, we would save ourselves a lot of troops and a lot of money that we need for emptied Spain. Give them up, be consistent. [[Applauds]] And, gentlemen of the PSOE, don't tell me you're studying it in the Senate. You, when you don't want to do something, entertain yourselves by studying, and when you want to do something, well you're going to touch royal decree every week. Today we are only asking for the start of the procedure, and we are opening up to work on it with amendments from all sides. We do not want it to be just our initiative, we want it to be everyone's initiative. What will you say today, PSOE and Podemos spokespersons? What will you say? [[Show some photos]] They manifest - here, the spokesman of the PSOE - asking the same thing in 2017 that we ask today What are they going to say today? What lie are you gonna tell? Moreover, Mr. Delgado - I don't see you - are the same comrades that you had when you were spokesman for the Unified Association of the Civil Guard, but you should have forgotten your profession of Civil Guard the day you wore the deputy suit, Your Honor. We already know that these are not good days for the forces and security forces with you in the government. Last week, they allowed a coven of hatred in the Congress against the Police and the Civil Guard. They allow permanent hatred in Catalonia against them and their families, in exchange for the vows that Mr Rufián gives them every day. In exchange for the budgets, they are beginning to repeal the Law on Citizen Security in order to make it a law of citizen impunity, of impunity of criminals, which places criminals at the same level as the rest of Spanish society. If the police, ladies and gentlemen, don't work safely, they won't be able to protect anyone. And since Sánchez came to the government, with his policy of goodism and Podemos' attacks on the State Security Forces and Corpses, the assaults on the police and the Civil Guard have increased by 26%; on average, thirty officers are assaulted every day in Spain. If up until now hitting a policeman would come out cheap, with the repeal of the Citizen Security Act will come out free. Instead of reinforcing the consideration of authority, they break it. I give you the following example, ladies and gentlemen. If you slap any of you, the author can go to jail, because you, Members of Parliament, are authorities. Instead, if they give it to the cops who are protecting us here in Congress, that guilty man's slap is going to come free, because they're only agents of authority. When a government protects the criminals and leaves the police and the civilian guards behind and in this way attacks the security of all Spaniards, when it does not legislate to protect those who protect us, when it allows wage imbalances between different police forces, it no longer deserves time. That is why today you will be able to prevent this initiative from being carried out with your Bildu partners - I see you here - or with your Rufián partner - also here - but sooner rather than later we will make it a reality with President Pablo Casado. No matter how much they weigh, pay equity will be a reality. Remember, nationalists: it will be a reality. I conclude my last speech of the year by wishing all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and your families a Merry Christmas, and the thousands of police and civilian guards, because do not forget that they, with or without equal pay, together with the local police and the autonomous police, will not even cease to ensure the safety of all Spaniards in every corner of Spain. To everyone, to them and to you, Merry Christmas. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u27	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign two years ago, in November 2019, we said that the State Security Forces and Bodies needed the support of politicians and we committed ourselves to supporting any initiative in that direction, both in Congress and in the Senate, if we were elected; among other things, we committed ourselves to achieving equal pay for the police. We understood that the main demand posed by the group at the meetings we had was the equalization of wages of the Spanish police forces, because there was a lot of difference between the remuneration of the National Police and the autonomous police, acting in the same territory and with similar functions. This bill goes that way and we will therefore support it. But I want to take this opportunity to draw attention to something that is in the explanatory statement and that then has no development in the normative text, and it is the reference to local police, competence, basically, of the autonomous communities. It was precisely yesterday in Cantabria that the preliminary draft law on the coordination of local police in Cantabria was presented, a proposal that seeks to achieve unification and coordination, including sharing local police, between different municipalities, something fundamental in rural Spain. Also, in this case, we have found that an amendment to the Law on Security Forces and Bodies would be appropriate to facilitate such measures, because it is currently subject to prior authorization by the State Administration. Similarly, the decree regulating invalidity, death and survival benefits resulting from their inclusion in the social security system should also be amended so that local police personnel could be incorporated under the same conditions as other members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. It is clear that this Police has fundamental functions for citizen coexistence - I do not think it is necessary to list them - and is not sufficiently recognized. Previously cited rural Spain. Local police officers in small municipalities should be in government action, regardless of autonomous competence, and should take this into account to improve it. But I return to the issue of the remunerations of this bill. As we said in the election campaign, and today we have an opportunity to reaffirm, they are an essential public service and should be treated in this way, at least and at least with a minimum of justice and equity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u28	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is necessary to equate the salary of the National Police and the Civil Guard with the rest of the autonomous police, as they are all state security forces and bodies, all the police, both the Mossos and the Ertzaintza and the Navarra Foral Police. But the fault of this non-equal pay is not the fault of the Autonomous Communities, it is the fault of the Government of Spain. What the Spanish Government has to do is to equalize those police officers. If these security forces in the autonomous communities are better paid and better equipped, they must put in place the necessary means to ensure that these police, the National Police and the Civil Guard, are in the same condition. We understand that this is the way, equal pay, equal pay, because, of course, they do the same work. Nor is it strictly in line with reality to say that it is the Government of Spain that pays these autonomous police officers. Of course, we should talk a lot about it. In any case, we are in favour of equalizing the salary of the National Police and the Civil Guard with the autonomous police. But the first thing to do is to make a wage equalization is to respect and believe in the work they do, and that is where the problem lies. How are they going to equate the National Police and the Civil Guard with other cops if they don't believe in those bodies, if they don't value the work they do? If it is that in this same Congress the other day the work they do daily was questioned. If the same Government, the party that is part of the Government and the parties that support it, question the daily work they do. If they said it was okay to beat up, stone and kick the National Police and the Civil Guard. If they say that's okay, how are they gonna raise their salary? It seems appropriate to them, because they believe that it is a police party, that it is a part of the Chamber and do not believe that they are public officials who are at the service of all citizens doing a task entrusted to them by the Constitution. If they believe it. If they think we've named them. That no, that in the National Police and the Civil Guard, as it is palpable, there are people of all kinds, who vote what he wants and that all they do is fulfill the constitutional function they have assigned, according to their commands and what the law says. Therefore, you cannot question your work every day, and of course one way not to question is to pay them back properly. And how will that be done if today we have seen - today, without going any further - how was one of the leaders of the terrorist gang ETA who had the political objective of ending all that National Police and all that Civil Guard? Or if we saw the other day that a person who killed thirty-three people was fired with kisses and applause, almost all members of the State Security Forces and Corpses? [[Applauds]] They were not respected; instead, they wanted to be eliminated. Those are Sanchez's partners. That's impossible. We demand respect for the Civil Guard and the National Police, to put their work as it should be and, of course, not to say that it is right to beat them, and from there the salary increase. With this government and with these partners that is impossible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Madam President, thank you, Mr García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u30	Thank you very much, President. We are debating an initiative to equalize the salaries of the members of the Security Forces and Bodies, both state and autonomous, through the amendment of the Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies, to introduce into it an identical retributive regime for these security forces and bodies, under the protection, it is said, of the State competence on public security, as set out in article 149.129 (a) of the Constitution, and to the constitutional call for an organic law to establish the status of the different security forces and bodies; and, as a last resort, to re-establish - it is said - the wound caused to the constitutional principle of equality by the existence of partial inequalities in remuneration between the different security forces and bodies. We say partial pay inequalities because today there is already a homogeneous pay base for all civil servants, and not only for the police, through a basic pay system consisting of the basic salary, the seniority and the limits applicable to the growth of the salaries of staff in the service of the entire public sector, dictated by the State under its competence in the matter of the basic statutory regime of the civil servant,149.1.18.a, and the general economic balance, in relation to the containment of public expenditure on staff, 149.1.13.a, relating to the general management of the economy, and endorsed by the Constitutional Court in various jurisprudence. Ladies and gentlemen, we now want to go a step further and fully equalise the salaries of police officers, whether from the State or from the autonomous communities, wherever they have police forces, under the protection - as I said to them - of State competence in the field of security and the constitutional principle of equality. However, the fact that the civil servants' remuneration regime is not appropriate in the constitutional sphere of public security is an unthinkable issue in the light of the unanimous jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court since the eighties of the last century. This is a subsumable matter for the State in its competence on the basic aspects of the relations of functional services, article 149.1.18; its competence on the general management of the economy in relation to public expenditure, article 149.1.13, and in the coordination of autonomous finances with the general, article 156.1. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, as the Constitutional Court has also stated in judgment 37/2002, this basic regulation must, however, allow each autonomous community to introduce, in pursuit of its own interests, the particularities which it considers relevant within its competence, and the adoption by the State of the limitations of budgetary measures affecting autonomous powers, as is now intended, must have a direct relation to the economic policy objectives aimed at achieving and maintaining stability and economic balance through the containment of public expenditure, by judgments 63/1986 and 139/2015. For this reason, and without any fissure for the High Court, the initiative we are debating has no constitutional link and will therefore not have the support of our parliamentary group. And, ladies and gentlemen, from another perspective and which is said to violate the principle of equality by the existence of partial inequalities in remuneration between the Security Forces of the State and the various Autonomous Communities, I would like to remind you that this principle is not a measure of validity in order to prosecute the differences that may be observed between different legislative areas in legitimate exercise of their powers, such as the General Courts and the various Parliaments of the Autonomous Communities, as the Constitutional Court has also stated in its judgment 319/1993, while continuing to add in its Judgment 76/1986: If that were so, this principle of equality would lose its own identity, since it only acts within the same system and law and would result in a prosecution of the State's own regulatory diversity of autonomy with irreconcilable criteria with this same constitutional diversity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot invoke the constitutional principle of equality, as is done in the initiative we are discussing, in order to address the differences between different regimes between public employees beyond what has already been stated in the basic regulations under Article 149.1.18 or in the general management of the economy. The Constitutional Court has been reluctant to such a claim, because its own doctrine makes it difficult to establish comparisons between staff employed in different institutions and administrations, even depending on the same institution if they are not subject to the same legal status, as is the case with the National Police and the Civil Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The State has no jurisdiction, protected by its powers in the field of security or by the law referred to in article 104.2 of the Constitution or by the basis of the statutory regime of the official referred to in article 149.1.18 or by its powers on general economic equilibrium, article 141.1.13, or by invoking the principle of equality in order to eliminate the partial retributive diversity between the Forces and the Security Bodies of the State and those of the various autonomous communities, as intended in the initiative we are discussing, resulting from the same legal diversity as the State of self-government. And two final reflections, and I'm finishing. If the People's Party and other parliamentary groups in this House are so disturbed by the existence of differences between the legal regimes of different forces and bodies, they could begin without going into any other territory, proposing a merger between the Civil Guard and the National Police, as happened years ago in Belgium. And, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as I said in a similar debate in your day, and I told VOX, this whole construct that they now bring us is nothing more than a deliberate distortion of constitutional reality that manipulates beliefs and emotions...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u31	Mr. Legarda, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u32	The corporal. ... in order to influence public opinion and social and police sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u34	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. I think we should remember how this whole equalization thing started. We have to put things in context, because, if not, they are not going to get it right. And we know that this began thanks to the union of all the police and civilian guards, that is, thanks to the union of all the police unions, of all the professional associations of the Civil Guard and with the help of a platform called Just Apol. That union was the one that managed to bring to the debate the need for a fair wage equality between all the State Security Forces and Corpses, because until then, for almost forty years, neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party had done anything to solve this problem. And it's that this is not a problem that came out like a arrow in 2015 all of a sudden, this is a problem that was devastated, washed away for a very long time, because the two parties when I was ruling, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, did not want to know anything about it, they preferred to give the prebenda to the independence parties, to the nationalist parties, they preferred to give their share to give to those who give the most for society in exchange for not raising wages and not going to equal the salary with those autonomous polices that were created. This started this way, and from there the concept of just wage equality was created, and today I am curious to see those pictures and to see that in 2015 the demonstrations for wage equality were the lords of the Socialist Party and of the United Podemos and today the lords of the People's Party are and are not the others. Do you know which game he was always, in 2015 and 2020 and 2021? Citizens. Citizens were always there, because they always believed, from the beginning, in the equalization of wages, and they also left the skin as to this equalization. We were, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who managed to get you to begin to understand what equal pay was in Mr Rajoy's first budgets, when five hundred million euros were included to begin to alleviate this scourge. And I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that at the time you did not believe in equal pay, Minister Zoido never thought of making that equal pay. What I wanted was to improve the salaries - which, of course, is fine - of the Civil Guard and the Police, but at no time did I want to talk about wage equality, and so it was that you were not in the demonstrations of 2015 and 2016 with Just Apol and Citizens for wage equality. Therefore, do not come now to say that you have believed in this from the beginning. No, you never thought about it, and we already know that the People's Party is a specialist in promising from the position what it refuses to fulfil from the government, just like the Socialist Party. Even today, we also know that from a government it is unable to meet commitments with its partners. From lying we already know that you know a lot, but since yesterday you have raised this to chusco art. [[Protests]] It is consistent for the People's Party to deceive the National Police and the Civil Guard, because the PP betrays everyone who behaves well with them. [[Protests]] The gene of betrayal is a mutation that perhaps allows us to survive in politics. How long? Maybe until the citizenry gets sick of you. And, ladies and gentlemen, he assured you that this moment is closer than you think. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u36	Citizens will be fed up with their falsehood and that you always deceive the one who treats them well. But, of course, it also seems that the Socialist Party now wants to turn its back on the fair claims about the equalization of the National Police and the Civil Guard. And, ladies and gentlemen, we do not like this law as it is drafted very much, it does not seem to us to be the complete solution, but it is true that, if we do not make an effort like the one being made to try to equate wages, and, of course, we will not stop fighting for a real equality, for a fair equality, and we do not give a legal framework to that equality, inequalities will occur again in the future. That's why we already said in 2017 that it would take something similar to a law of wage caps so that these things would not happen again, because, if not, the imbalances will continue to add up and we may be back at the starting point twenty or thirty years after this with governments on one side and on the other without doing anything to solve this problem, because the Socialist Party and People's Party leaders betrayed the National Police and the Civil Guard. They have been betrayed for thirty years, thirty years in which you have ignored them and have looked elsewhere when trade unions and professional associations raised these complaints with them. Then it seems that it was not a problem, now it is, and it is simply used as a weapon to attack the Government on the contrary, which seems to me terrible, completely terrible. One must truly believe in the commitment to those who give everything, the most important thing they have, even to their life, to defend all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the covens you have made in this house, which is everyone's house, against national police and civil guards only convey shame, because it is shameful that you use this institution to harm precisely the National Police and the Civil Guard. Only by the dignity of all men and women belonging to the State Security Forces and Corpses, that Civil Guard and such National Police, should you understand that, although it is not the best law possible, it can be taken into consideration, to be adequately amended in the process of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, it's over. It is justice that is involved today, it is justice that is proposed today, but I am very afraid that again in this Chamber justice will shine again because of its absence, because neither one is able to claim what is justice in this case...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u37	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u38	It's over, President. ... which is equal pay between all the State Security Forces and Corpses. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u40	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez brings us today this proposal for a law, to which I am already making progress that we are not going to support, but, seeing the debate that has been raised so far, it makes more sense in terms of the Civil Guard and National Police than in what I am going to put to you now, because her proposal directly affects the issue to which I am going to refer, and it is that, as you know, in Catalonia we have our own police, the Mossos d'Esquadra. Irony of fate is that this comes out of a covenant of the nineties signed by Mr. José María Aznar. It was then that the statutory competition envisaged in the Statute of Catalonia in the field of citizen security materialized for the Mossos d'Esquadra to assume this matter of citizen security in a complete way, even with the transfer of the issue of traffic. In fact, it is precisely a Catalan law that determines those flanks that you pointed out are not regulated. But, before entering into this matter, I also do not want to stop putting on the table the reality of the body of the Mossos d ́Esquadra, a body whose birth dates around 1721 under the name of the Squadras of Armed Landscapes and which subsequently changes with the Republican Generalitat in 1932 to Mossos d ́Esquadra, which was reserved for public security of an extra and supra-Community character, leaving the other functions, all the internal functions, in the hands of the Generalitat, and therefore assuming these security competences. In terms of personnel, the law regulating the Mossos d ́Esquadra establishes that it is a staff of officials who occupy positions on different scales and who are officials of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And to the extent that they are officials of the Generalitat of Catalonia, the law in its article 40 regulates their salaries, the rights and duties of the officials of the Generalitat of Catalonia, in this case in the field of the Mossos d ́Esquadra, and the configuration of basic and complementary over-allocations, defining in detail in that flank that you consider that the Law on State Security Forces does not comply but is part of the legislative development that is being done in the field of Catalan legislation. Therefore, we are not going to support this proposal, which calls for standardization, which raises a question which directly affects the competences of Catalonia and which directly affects the Mossos d ́Esquadra. Very briefly, I will say that we are here precisely because of this item on the agenda, the equalization of the salaries of the different security forces, a point to which we are not going to give any support, because we do not understand that the State has to intervene in relation to the Squad Movements. But I want to take advantage of the solemnity of this rostrum to once again give the support of PeCAT to the Mossos d ́Esquadra, a group of staff, of public servants with a selfless job; a reference police in Catalonia that, together with the Urban Guard and the local police, guarantees order and security in Catalonia, sometimes in difficult circumstances, and that has all our recognition, the recognition of PeCAT, the recognition of the Democratic Party, as a modern and democratic police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u42	Mrs Vazquez, I am sincere about not going out, but we have felt concerned, especially me, because you have quoted me a couple of times, so I have taken some notes about what you have said. He has expressed funny things, but some very serious, especially one, about which I would like to answer him. The first thing I want to ask you is for a curiosity: Does Cuba and Venezuela still work for you? Are there people who buy it, that here is Fidel Castro and the Che? I wish! But does it work for them? [[A Member of the European Parliament: It is a social-communist dictatorship]] It's a social-communist dictatorship, I know that. He was curious. The second thing I want to point out is that you said that some of us are here trying - you said literally - to scratch votes to stay in Moncloa. Sure, because you're an NGO and you don't ask for votes, you ask for hugs, and when you rule in Moncloa you want to leave on the first day, don't you? [[Applauds]] Let's start with things a little more serious. You said that this initiative is not political, that it has nothing to do with politics, that the demonstrations of the police, of the police unions have nothing to do with politics, but it is a matter of decency. Juanpol, for example, is the main police union that advocates equal pay. Juanpol doesn't do political demonstrations, does he? But he's going to Barcelona. You have gone withJusapol to Barcelona to ask for equal pay. Where is the Ministry of the Interior? In Barcelona? Didn't he have any political connotations going to Barcelona? You have defended the civil guard's salary equalization, for example. Where did they go? The Altsasu. Didn't that have any kind of political connotation? Don't they do politics? Don't they make a political use of the police? You are not credible with this perverse use of the police, of public officials, do you know why? Because their defense of the improvement of civil servants' pay conditions is not general. You govern, for example, in Andalusia and have fired eight thousand health workers. Aren't medical officers also, like the police? Aren't they? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u44	You in Madrid govern and haven't renovated four thousand toilets. They open bars, but they close outpatient clinics. Is that defending public officials? [[Applauds.-Protests]] More serious things than you've said. He said that some of us and we agree with the signal and that they beat the police. You, the right and the right in this country, are doing a weak favor to democracy by defending lies in Catalonia, defending, for example, that it is harassing, that it is harassing children for speaking in the language I am speaking here now, which, as you know, is costing me enormously. [[protests]] They do it the same and the same who, being very generous, kept quiet, and some applauded him and even others were there and were harassing three children in a Galapagar house for months. And that harassment was true, and some of you participated. [[Applauds]] So lessons, the fair ones. And the most serious thing he has manifested: he has said that some of us and we have to leave the escort. I don't have an escort and I can assure you that there are people who want me to be very worried because I don't have an escort. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u46	But it seems to me a terribly irresponsible speech for people who obviously need the escort thanks to hate speech, when, also being very generous, at best, the People's Party imitates the far right simply to be able to compete electorally. If some of those who are here have been escorted is thanks to those hate speeches that you encourage, because I can assure you that what two, three or four years ago was a bad look now is something else. [[protests]] Two, three or four years ago, we were called hitters. You know what they call us now? Killers. Is that true? No, that's not true. Do you know why they do it? They know perfectly well. We're never going to endorse anyone being beaten, we don't agree with slaps, as you said here. In fact, the only slaps or sticks we saw were in October at polling stations to shame democracy in this country for years and years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is bringing to this session a legal amendment knowing that it is not legally feasible. And it is paradoxical that a party that calls itself a constitutionalist seems to be that it does not know the Constitution, and, if it knows it, it seems that it does not respect it, and especially Title VIII, that relating to the territorial organization of the State. Moreover, from a political point of view, it is also surprising that the People's Party brings this proposal to its consideration in Congress, when the Senate has already approved the creation of a study paper on the remuneration of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and, as you know, the Senate is the most appropriate place to discuss issues related to retributive harmonization in the different territories of the State. Entering into the subject in question, from Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos we have always defended the importance of the Police and Civil Guard having revenues similar to those of the autonomous security forces. With regard to this, progress has been made in this legislature as never before by means of increases in the last three years, which have led to improvements in incomes above 20%, which has not happened to any other body of the Civil Service in Spain; the largest wage increase in the last thirty years, and I repeat, the largest wage increase in the last thirty years. Why didn't they make a similar climb during the Aznar or M. Rajoy governments? Very simple, because for you officials have never been a priority. You have devoted yourselves to putting the common resources of the State at the service of your business friends, and this has been demonstrated up to three times by the National Court. On the other hand, and entering into technical aspects that you know well but still prefer to distort to manipulate the public opinion, the retributive matter on public security rather than the competence of the State is inserted in the power of the autonomous communities to organize their administration and the officials who serve it, with the only limit of the state bases provided for in article 149.1.18 of the Constitution. A regulation such as the one proposed today by the People's Party would imply a violation of the power of self-organisation of the autonomous communities, their powers in the field of public service and their powers in the field of local administration. That is why they are proposing this initiative now that they are in opposition. But why didn't they bring her into debate or, better yet, why didn't they implement it during the sixteen years they were in the state government? [[Applauds]] You know that applying the formula that you bring to this House today would violate the budgetary autonomy of the autonomous communities and their powers to regulate, through their annual budget laws, the expenses relating to their staff, within the framework of the bases approved by the State. Its intention is not to raise wages either to the police or to the Civil Guard. If that were their intention, they would have done it by now. The reality is that you have dedicated your money to other priorities that your ex-Secretary, Luis Bárcenas, knows well. The interest of the People's Party is and has never been in improving the system of civil servants and has never been in improving the salary conditions of the State Security Forces and Corpses. What we do know, and on this we will discuss in depth tomorrow in the Commission devoted to the conclusions of the Kitchen investigation, is that the People's Party has instrumentalized for partisan purposes both the dome of the Ministry of the Interior and the police dome and has dedicated these troops to destroying indictable evidence of fiscal offences affecting senior members of the People's Party, namely the former Minister of the Interior, Jorge Fernández Díaz, the former Secretary General, María Dolores de Cospedal, and the former President, Mr Rajoy. And about the current president of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, who was inspiring his ideas on November 20 at the Mass held in the Granada Cathedral dedicated to Franco, I have to say in this House something that has gone unnoticed in the media, and is that the nostalgics of fascism made in Spain, on November 20, celebrate a Mass dedicated not only to a fascist, but to two, José Antonio Primo de Rivera and Francisco Franco. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] One of the main tactics of Primo de Rivera's fascism, inspired by Pablo Casado, was to break the monopoly of the legitimate use of force. Its tactical objective to take power was to break the institutional and constitutional loyalty owed to the Republic by the State Security Forces and Bodies. José Antonio knew that if the Guardia de Asalto and Guardia Civil en bloc were loyal to the Republic, the coup d'état that prepared the military forces and fascist policies would not triumph. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u50	Saving distances, history repeats itself, and the heirs of fascism made in Spain seek to break the respect that the State Security Forces and Bodies maintain with the democratic and constitutional order. The People's Party instrumentalized the State Security Forces and Bodies when it was in the government - we'll talk about that tomorrow - and now they're still instrumentalizing them from the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you have said that we will vote against the handling of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u51	Thank you, Mr. Cortés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proposed law brought to us by the People's Party to reform Law 2/1986 on State Security Forces and Bodies tells us that there is a distortion in the police model, but that is not true, because the problem is not in the police model. The police model may be good or bad, but here the problem is the constitutional model that you embrace, applaud and support with real fervor. This constitutional model that has led to first and second Spaniards, and officials of first, second and third, who have used the National Police and the Civil Guard, the most loyal, the most sacrificed, the greatest professionals and who have treated as cheap labour. In Change, the autonomous governments in Catalonia, the Basque Country and Navarre, formed in their vast majority by separatists, have spoiled their autonomous police officers, perhaps in the hope that someday they will be the embryo of their national police of the Catalan countries or of their dream Euskal Herria, of course having annexed the poor and dear Navarre. And it is you who are now coming to tell us about dysfunctionalities and retributive inequalities! Gentlemen of the People's Party, you have ruled by absolute majority and the same as the Socialist Party has ever claimed that this exclusive competence of the state was turning the real public servants into the worst treaties, the worst paid. [[Applauds]] It is true that there was a so-called equalization agreement in 2018, but that was nothing more than an insufficient salary increase based on lies, such as the manipulation of the audit to calculate payment needs. I have to make a parenthesis and now refer to the spokesman who preceded me from the Citizens Party. Mr Gutiérrez, it is good that you hit him hard for a while in your speech to those of the People's Party - you deserve to always say one thing when you are in the opposition and always do the opposite when you are in the government, and vice versa - but the reality is that you and I - and I was joined by another Member of this Chamber, my colleague Pedro Fernández - we were at the first General Assembly where that movement that was called Just Apollo was managed, where for the first time it brought together the vast majority of national police and civilian guards. And we still remember with sorrow and with blight when you, Mr. Gutiérrez, came up to the rostrum and, looking at them in the eyes, said to the national police and civilian guards: Citizens' are clear that we will always be for the equality between the National Police and the Civil Guard. Of course, the sound of the room was: this one didn't know anything. He wants to equate the poor with the poor. [[Applauds]] Look, real equality is something else. This proposal which you are presenting - and which I am already telling you that we are going to support it because this is better than nothing - is insufficient because it does not regulate and does not guarantee equality in the second activity and in the reserve; it does not guarantee equality in the matter of retirement, in the matter of trial assistance, in the matter of overtime and, moreover, it is not credible, because you put two transitional provisions, the fifth and the sixth, where, in order to achieve unification nothing less than the nomenclature of the different professional categories, you put a period of two years. But like two years! But like two years! You'll have to say it's done now, that the police can't wait any longer. And, for example, when they say they want to unify wages, it also takes two years. You always throw balloons forward to see if when the time comes to apply it either, as you did not apply it when you were in Moncloa for many years. [[Applauds]] How much the National Police and the Civil Guard have had to endure! How they're holding up every day! How much discourse and how much demagogy and how little they have cared about each other when they are in government! I will finish but not congratulate him on the holidays, because for that there are the holidays of the people, but wishing all Spaniards a Merry Christmas so that the Child born in Bethlehem will bring that peace that some violent people want to take away from us, that it will bring us that unity that some separatists want to impose on us and that it will bring that freedom that some totalitarians have committed to rapture us. And so that the Rufians of this House, the friends of the CDRs, those who hate the National Police and the Civil Guard, those who rejoice when they kick them, can understand how we understand in VOX and the vast majority of Spaniards how we love, how we support and how we respect our dear National Police and our Civil Guard, what better than to listen to them from their own voice. [[Close the cell phone to the microphone and you begin to hear the anthem of the Civil Guard and the National Police.-Applause.-Pause]] You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u53	If you want to take the floor, we can hear it. The rostrum is not to play songs, Mr Ortega, it is to listen to you. [[Applauds]] You have the floor if you want to make use of it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u54	I hope no one asks that question: does anyone know what's ringing? For it is the anthem of the glorious Civil Guard and the National Police, which has arrested many of the friends who today support the Government. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the truth is that they do not fail to surprise us - I sincerely say - with the forms and substance of this proposal that they present. Let's start with the shape. Their need to want to manipulate the police and the Civil Guard leads them to want to present a proposal for unconstitutional law. But they also know; they know that the retributive situation they propose is contrary to law. The initiative is a simple and crude translation of the contents of the Employee's Basic Statute into the scope of the State Security Forces and Bodies, also showing extreme ignorance of the unconstitutionality of certain blocks and of the specific regulation of each body. When you cite articles 104 and 149.1.18.a of the Constitution to give constitutional coverage, you are ignoring the main one, which is article 149.1.18.a of the Constitution, which refers to the development powers of the public service bases, which, as you know, falls within the competence of the autonomous communities. They present this bill in such a legally unknowing way that it really seems a lie that they have been ruling. I'm telling you honestly. With this in mind, inter alia, Article 40 of Law 2/1986 or Article 4 of the Consolidated Statute of the Employee should be repealed. In addition, they should know that the State only sets the overall amount in the General Budgets of the State; it is article 22 of the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations that sets the salaries of officials, and the supplementary salaries shall be established by the corresponding laws of each public administration. Or are they gonna tell me they don't know? Not to mention the negotiating table that you propose, which you include in this proposal. It involves recognizing a trade union representation to the National Police - which does have it - but it is also recognizing it to the Civil Guard - which, as you know, does not - unless, in a collateral way, you want to use this bill to recognize it. But the worst of all, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is that Law 24/2014, of the Civil Guard Staff Regime, or the 9/2015, of the National Police Staff Regime, were rules approved by the People's Party, and now they leap into the void and violate the system of competition sharing. You, who call yourselves adalids of constitutionalism! Perhaps the answer is in the report of the private external consultant, hired by the People's Party, which is of course a genuine cog. [[Applauds]] A report contracted by an urgent procedure with very many irregularities that this Government found. To say it in a way, so that you understand me, if that report was an end-of-grade job - because it certainly does not come to the end of master's work - you will have a suspension in upper case, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in upper case. But I'm going too far, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. The Socialist Parliamentary Group was already aware of this concern and that is why last year, in particular on 28 February 2020, the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate submitted to the Internal Committee a motion on the creation of a special study paper on the implementation of the strategy of effective wage equality between the State Security Forces and the autonomous police. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you know what you voted for the same thing that you want to bring to debate in this House today? Do you know what you voted to set up this committee? They abstained, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they abstained. The same thing they brought here today. Therefore, I have to think that you do not intend to work for the improvement of the conditions of pay or work either of the National Police or of the Civil Guard. You want to continue to use these bodies politically in a strategy of wear and tear on this government. But I will tell you one thing: neither the National Police nor the Civil Guard are the property of anyone, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of anyone. [[Applauds]] And if in fact I refer to who has worked for the improvement of the working and wage conditions of the National Police and the Civil Guard, I have to remind you of some issues. The first, the one that was stored in a drawer - yes, Mrs Vázquez, you have made reference to it - a large drawer, because 807 million euros were missing, which was the commitment to pay the three equal pay instalments. An agreement that, when we arrived at the Government, there were no records of the meetings held, no budget document or payment schedule. And even with an extended budget, the first 560 million and the subsequent 247 million of the last tranche were sought, which meant an increase of 20% on average for each payroll for each police officer and for each civilian guard. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you know what it really is to work for the police and the Civil Guard? Do you know what true patriotism is? To present budgets such as those which we have approved, in spite of them, where the ministry increases its budget by 5% and has increased the remuneration conditions of public officials by 2%. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you know what your vote on the State General Budgets was calling for a 2% increase in civil servants? A 'no'. Do you know how you work, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, for the National Police and the Civil Guard? Approving public job offers that recover the 12,000 places lost from public servants at the government stage; a public job offer that for this year includes 4843 new staff, and a replacement rate that will be 125 %, 236 million euros for a staff of 198 000 places. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you know what should not be done with the police and the Civil Guard? Deceiving their unions and associations by saying that they were going to equalize wages and finally hide it. You shouldn't lose those 12,000 seats and look the other way. You can't give cheap patriotism breaststrokes and then put them in a 'piolin' for greater shame of all. It cannot be said that they must be protected, on the one hand, and, on the other, turn the dome of the Ministry of the Interior of the PP into the greatest case of political corruption, even questioning the veracity of the testimonies of honest and honest police officers. [[Applauds]] You can't keep lying to the citizen for so long. The results show that if anyone has been concerned and complies with the National Police and the Civil Guard that is the Socialist Party. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Araujo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u58	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on speeches of intolerance and discrimination against LGBTI people from Poland and Hungary. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Pedraja Sáinz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u59	Thank you very much, President. Today, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are presenting a non-legislative proposal against speeches of intolerance and discrimination against the people of the LGBTI collective, both in Poland and Hungary. In recent months we have seen how the Hungarian Parliament passed a law banning the promotion of homosexuality, simply understanding the fact of talking about it as a promotion. In addition, we have seen how in Poland close to a hundred municipalities and cities declare areas free of LGTBI ideology, resulting in a serious attack on this collective. From the Socialist Group we believe that the defence of the rights of the LGBT collective should be promoted throughout the European Union and we also believe that any speech of hatred or attack on that collective should be condemned by the European Union. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is curious, because since the rise of the far right throughout Europe, there has also been an increase in hate speech against the LGBT collective throughout the European Union. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken, this is not just a problem of the European Union, it is not even just a problem of Hungary or Poland. It's not. Here, in this House, there is also an ultra-right. [[Applauds]] In this House, in the House of National Sovereignty, in the House where all the citizens of this country are represented, in the House where all the people are represented, every day the ultra-right attacks them; it attacks whom it considers different: it attacks women, it attacks the immigrant, it attacks any person of the LGBT collective simply because they consider it not normal. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, here in this country, homosexuality has been decriminalised for forty-two years; they seem to be forgotten. [[Applauds]] Let us not deceive ourselves, here the ultra-right does no more because it cannot; the great difference between the ultra-right and the Spanish ultra-right is that the Spanish ultra-right has no power, because here, when they are given power - we were able to see it last week in the Madrid Assembly - the Spanish ultra-right is the same as the European ultra-right. Ladies and gentlemen, the attack that took place in the Madrid Assembly last week was brutal, a brutal attack, because VOX intended to repeal the LGTBI law of that community. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you gave them wings! You gave them wings! Today we are all left with us, but one day you will all be left with us and it will be too late. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am sure that you have family, friends, acquaintances and even fellow members of the LGBT collective. Do you really believe that these people deserve less rights than heterosexual people? Do you really believe that these people have no right to have legislation that makes life easier for them? Do you really believe that? It's just that I'm not talking to you about street citizens, I'm talking to you about your own people. Do you really think you don't have the right to have the same rights as the rest of you? Are you really willing to continue giving wings to hate speech against the LGBT collective? Are you really sure that simply by a vote, by scratching votes to VOX, it is worth continuing with this drift? Look, ladies and gentlemen, a vote is very important, a vote is the most important thing a citizen can give you, because it gives you the ability to legislate and direct your life for four years, but, ladies and gentlemen, a vote is worth nothing, absolutely nothing, if it is not used to improve the lives of those citizens. [[Applauds]] A vote, ladies and gentlemen, is worthless if it is not used to do good; if it is not used to do good, a vote is worthless. Think, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing, because Spain, this country in which we live, is a diverse, open, tolerant and respectful country, and that sometimes to the right is forgotten, because while the left fights for rights and respects, it seems that the right only tolerates citizens. I don't ask you to tolerate me, I ask you to respect me. [[Applauds]] All that ideological, sexual, family and cultural diversity that exists in this country, all that, is what makes Spain a great country and we owe it a respect to all that diversity, especially in this House, where national sovereignty lies, where all the citizens, whoever they are, are represented. From this party, from the Socialist Party we have presented this proposal because we believe in defending the rights of the LGBT collective; we have always believed it. Here, thanks to José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Law on Equal Marriage was passed and, thanks to the progressive government of Pedro Sánchez, the law for the real and effective equality of trans persons and for the guarantee of LGBT rights will be adopted. But not only that, we hope that the Zero Law will also be passed and we hope that the Family Diversity Law will also be agreed, as all this helps the LGTB collective. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this struggle is not a single struggle, we understand that this struggle is a joint struggle, and that is why we extend our hand to you to approve this non-law proposal. But not only that, we reach out to them to continue to fight hate speech against women, against immigrants and against the people of the LGTB collective, to continue to legislate to improve the lives of the citizens of this country, also the lives of the people of the LGTB collective. That is why we ask all the groups in this House to support this initiative and, above all, to point out that only together and together we will be able to stop the far right, only together and together from the dialectics we will be able to win a different speech. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pedraja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u61	Thank you very much, President. I begin by greeting the Chilean people for their strong victory over the homophobic and anti-poor right. [[Applauds]] Gabriel Boric Company, a hugged company! Poland and Hungary are a terrible example of what happens when it governs the far right. The governments of Warsaw and Budapest have an open crisis with the European Union for their authoritarian, homophobic and racist policies. In those countries, a number of laws have been adopted that are deeply detrimental to the rights of LGBTI people, in addition to the anti-trans amendments adopted last spring. They also made constitutional amendments without public consultation restricting the gender identity of children to their gender assigned at birth, demanding education based on Christian culture and institutionalizing a heteronormative definition of the family, their family, the family of the ultra-right. With the ultra-right in power there is a monopoly on state institutions, on public media and on the economic, political and cultural elites of states, ladies and gentlemen. That happens in Poland and Hungary, but it also happens in Bolsonaro Brazil, until next year, that we will remove it from there, we will get it out of there. Today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal concerning speeches of intolerance and discrimination against LGBTI people in Poland and Hungary, which the Socialist Party is proposing. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, for your initiative. So important to us that we have made an amendment and we propose the addition of a new paragraph which reads as follows: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government to accelerate the urgent adoption of the law for the real and effective equality of trans persons and for the guarantee of the rights of LGBTI persons, in order to curb the growing discourse of hatred, combat the rise of homophobic crimes and shield the rights of the LGBTI collective. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, because if you condemn the acts of intolerance and hatred carried out in countries such as Poland and Hungary - with which you are absolutely certain that the vast majority of this House, except the right and the extreme right, we agree - you must do so also in the Spanish State. Why do I say that? Because the government's lack of sensitivity about the delay and the obstruction in processing and passing the LGTBI law and the trans law is enormous; it's horrible! May you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, know that every day of delay and every obstacle you put to these laws pose a real and direct danger to the lives of millions of LGBTI people in that country - millions - and the threat posed by hate speech in a country where there are governments that depend on the far right. Yes, it is that rights cuts are being made from the LGTB collective, but resource cuts are also being made to historical entities. This must be stopped urgently, ladies and gentlemen. I ask: Or do you want more neo-Nazi demonstrations against LGBTI people like the one in Chueca, a'mani' of Nazis who went out hunting and who were allowed by the government delegate? Amazing! It is very nice to talk about Poland and Hungary, but you must now, as a matter of urgency, shield the human rights of LGBT people. Here I have the report of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which, at paragraph 51, speaks of Spain and says that the Government has to act. [[shows a document]] It's your turn, gentlemen of the government. I ended up with a quote from an activist from the Unit Against Feixism and Racism. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u62	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u63	[[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Pedraja Sáinz, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, proposes to re-edit in the Congress of Members of Parliament debates which have already taken place in the Community institutions on different measures taken in two Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, interference and interference in matters relating to other countries is a breach of due respect for their sovereignty. In addition, this non-legislative proposal replaces the functions and powers of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Europe, as it seeks to promote a condemnation of alleged acts which are the subject of attention and analysis by those entrusted with the responsibility of evaluating them. In any case, despite the unacceptable threats of severe sanctions on Poland and Hungary, which are of an authoritarian style that does not respond to the founding spirit of the European Union, rotating presidencies are taking place and, as of today, it remains unobvious that the principles of the community of countries to which they belong have been broken; and it is not clear because, in fact, discrimination against the LGBTBIQ+ people attributed to them is false. The only hate speech that tries to hold back those who promote parliamentary initiatives such as this of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is, once again, to demonize governments and political forces that are not left-wing and that do not swallow - we do not swallow - the globalist agendas that corner and destroy national identity, history, traditions, customs or beliefs and that do not go through any progress. You don't have to look that far to perceive the punctuation of false arguments with the LGTB IQ+ rights by means. In Spain, the Social-Communist Government has tried to make the opposition - that is to say, those who have an ideology that is not of its orbit - fall into responsibility for crimes and homophobic aggressions, irrational manifestations and intolerable behaviors. A cordon sanitaire has come to propose. We have seen it with the vile murder of young Samuel Luiz last September in La Coruña. One of the leading ideologists of the United Nations, Mr. Monedero, was unleashed with intolerable accusations towards the political right. We have seen it after the march of uncerebrated neo-Nazis by Chueca, which was linked from the official media to VOX although it had been a demonstration authorized by the Government Delegation of Madrid. We also saw it in the case of Malasaña, which the very Minister of the Interior attributed to the existence of a broth of cultivation generated by the opposition and, then, it was discovered that it had been a false homosexual aggression. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is today promoting the condemnation of Poland and Hungary because it says that they do not represent the spirit of agreement, recognition and respect for diversity and plurality in the European Union. However, what did Pedro Sánchez do with his Minister of Justice, who years earlier had referred very disrespectfully to the sexual condition of a partner with whom he would end up coinciding in the blue bank? Although that gross episode did not respond to the best portrait of respect for diversity and plurality, Mrs Delgado was promoted to the Attorney General of the State, and continues there. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not said in this socialist initiative that the legal changes made in defence of the rights of children and adolescents, in favour of the family and the best interests of Hungarian minors and in combating sexual abuse are the grounds for censorship. Here in Spain, speaking of human rights, where are those who assist minors under public guardianship who have been subjected to prostitution in the Balearic Islands? What will the parties and governments that have overshadowed these events and prevented their investigation if the European Parliament's mission determines, as it cannot otherwise be, the seriousness of what has happened? [[The lady]] I conclude, Madam President, because this afternoon, while one of the two parties of the government keeps us distracted with this peril by Hungary and Poland to end up attacking the Community of Madrid, here in Spain follows the climb of the shopping basket on Christmas Eve, the light in historical records, the fuels idem and the virus that Sánchez gave up eighteen months ago continues to cause damage. In any case, human rights are a requirement for everyone and everyone. Respect for the sovereignty of all nations as well. Vote against this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u67	Madam, Madam President. Get out of the way. The Socialist Parliamentary Group brings us to debate a non-legislative proposal concerning speeches of intolerance and discrimination against the LGBTI people of Poland and Hungary and which leads us to focus, in addition to these European countries, also in a closer environment, in the Spanish State itself; especially in those communities where the extreme right rule alongside the right, because they are sowing what their friends Viktor Orbán or Mateusz Morawiecki hanhecho, respectively, in their countries. The strategy that the far right is carrying out in the Spanish State is concrete in the reduction of rights and in the reduction of resources to historical entities as a way to silence their struggle. We do not stand idly by the discourses that promote hatred of the people who live and express their sexuality outside the canons marked by the patriarchal system and encourage us not to stand idly by and act courageously. This type of discourse cannot be welcomed under the umbrella of freedom of expression, nor can it act with the goodism of equidistance. Let's talk about human rights, let's talk about democracy. This is the dividing line between fascist attitudes and a society respectful of the rights of its citizens. In September of this year we denounce in this House that it is not enough to show good intentions in institutional declarations or to adopt norms and laws that propose the formation and development of sexual education in the different educational fields as a means of creating attitudes respectful of sexual diversity and, subsequently, decaffeinated as the school program in Navarre or not developing them. It is urgent to promote in the society in which we live transformative feminist policies and a vision of sexuality as an enriching dimension of all people, leaving aside the prohibitionist and normative approaches. In relation to the above, we have witnessed these weeks the Christmas bombing of images and messages of hypersexualized advertising that continues to reinforce year after year, with the same advertisements, models of a mercantilized and heteronormative sexuality. Is it not possible to limit in the media the day-to-day promotion of models contrary to sexual diversity? Finally, we see the need to protect existing legislation on the rights of LGBT people - such as that existing in the two communities of Euskal Herria - and to focus on it and expand it so that no one feels discriminated against for living their sexuality. We believe that the need for a law to develop and guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons is indisputable, as well as to eradicate situations of discrimination in order to ensure that the Spanish State can live the emotional, sexual and family diversity with full freedom. And this leads us to ask the Socialist Parliamentary Group: what is the reason why the bill for the real and effective equality of trans people and for the guarantee of LGBT rights, promoted by the Government itself, is currently blocked? It has been six months since the Council of Ministers approved its procedure and we do not know when we will have the opportunity to start its debate. We share that the rights of LGBTI people must be defended internationally and we also demand that the historical demands of the rich LGBTI associative fabric be met in the Spanish State. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, if you really believe in what you are defending in this GNP, you are moving from sayings to facts and pushing the process of this law now. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we have a non-law proposal against speeches of intolerance towards LGBT people in Poland and Hungary. The finding of this non-legislative proposal is real; it is a finding made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group through this non-legislative proposal, because we have the facts of the laws that have been passed in Hungary; and also in Poland with the exclusion zones or LGTB-free zones, as has been said, and even regional charters that have been approved in each of the different Polish regions. Our position is clear and strong. Nor am I going to repeat things that have already been said and which I assume will be said - although some will say the opposite - in favour of what is proposed in this non-law proposal for two reasons, which in substance derive from it, but which are basically two. The first is that the defence of human rights and freedom is the basis of any democracy, any coexistence, any union; it is the first, the fundamental. And automatically, as a result of this, the second is that they are the foundational foundations of the European Union, Article 2. Remember those who do not believe that this is appropriate - some have even mentioned interference - that I am clearly quoting Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Surely, some argue that each country - they have already done so - is sovereign to legislate internally without interference, etc., but we are talking about human rights, we are talking about freedoms and we are talking about positioning ourselves against totalitarian, anti-democratic positions and that they restrict people's freedom, because they must all enjoy the same rights in the European Union. Because what, if not, is belonging to the European Union? Don't have any tariffs? Covering funds and then doing what everyone wants? I do not understand in that way the Europeanist spirit which, at least, has guided my party for so many years in this life. The signing of the Union's agreements in this area is therefore clear; and it mentioned Article 2 of the Treaty itself, but there are a lot more documents which, in some way, recognise that fundamental defence which must be made as the basis and principle for working in this European Union. That is why, even if the initiative starts with goodwill and discretion, the European Union, its institutions and its leaders have already moved in this area. I therefore believe that it is right to bring such a proposal to this House, but, fortunately, this is already being discussed. Have the statements and petitions been strong enough? I have here varied documentation, including direct letters sent by important leaders of the European Union. Well, no, they haven't. Either they have not been enough or the receiving people have gone Olympically beyond what they have been told; and, of course, that must be pointed out somewhere. As serious as legislating with criteria like those of Hungary or Poland is supporting them from other countries or making them crazy or absent. There is a resolution from the European Parliament which was adopted this very harsh and sharp year against the laws adopted by Hungary. The position of VOX in the European Parliament and here, of course, we are not surprised; we would be surprised otherwise. But that of the People's Party? What's it like to stand aside? It is incredible, but twelve of its thirteen MEPs abstained. Except for González Pons, who consistently voted in favour, the remaining twelve abstained, arguing that what would be achieved if this were supported was that Hungarian citizens would suffer the consequences of European reprisals. Mrs. Montserrat didn't know how to explain what they were doing. What do you owe Orbán? Because I don't see any other explanation. Unfortunately, the way of ruling in these countries increasingly reminds us of past times, such as when homosexuals were tried in Spain at the Public Order Court. During the early years, the dictatorship was concerned to exterminate other things, other ideological dissents, but from 1949 - if I am not mistaken - with the reform of the Criminal Code began to condemn homosexual practices directly and in 1954 the Law on Vagus and Malantes was amended. We do not want to go back to these situations and I just want to say that it is a disgrace and a pity that societies such as Poland or Hungary, which know so much about persecutions, which have suffered so much dictatorships and totalitarianisms, are now governed by those who are and with these positions. We will support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u71	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal deals with human rights and the Spanish liberals will support it, because we are facing hatred, those who want to impose their prejudices on reality and those who want to pass the wheel of ideology ahead of people. To all of them we say loud and clear: No! It's not going to happen anywhere that rules Citizens. It has been shown that where Citizens are, not only is there not a step backwards in the area of LGBTI rights, but there is still progress. It is grace that it is the PSOE, the party that expelled us from the Pride, that is now lamenting that Citizens have left the Government of the Community of Madrid. There is no firmness in the defense of LGBT rights because Citizens are not there. And, gentlemen of the People's Party, at last, they just dissolved in an irresponsible, disloyal way and tracked down a functioning government. Because of the obsession of his leader, Mr Casado, as far as the victory of Ayuso is concerned, they have not only led the way with an exemplary government in the midst of the pandemic, but also with a government committed to the rights of LGBT people who can now be left in the hands of VOX, the partners of Le Pen and Salvini, who share a political group in the European Parliament with the anti-democratic governments of Hungary and Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the rights of LGBTI people, as part of equality between all citizens, are a red line for citizens. But I tell you more: they're a red line that we have tattooed, and they don't shake our legs when we defend equality or when VOX tells us how to form a family or when nationalists tell us how we need to talk. Freedom and equality are either fully defended or only prejudices disguised as a beautiful name are defended. Here I would like to appeal to the Socialist Party, to which they call themselves progressives. Does it make sense to defend the equality of LGBT people but to silence the obvious discrimination of constitutionalists in Catalonia? What has to happen to families like Canet? How much harassment do you have to suffer in order for you to denounce it with the same avidness that you defend other causes? I deeply reject homophobia in Hungary and Poland, but do you reject the hatred of the Spanish in Spain? With his proposal we must get wet about what kind of society we want: either an open, modern and respectful society with diversity, or a closed society in itself, full of fears and prejudices, ready to retreat and stifled by hatred among those who think differently. Citizens make it clear: how liberal, at the heart of our political action is respect for individual rights and freedoms. Liberalism has aspired and worked every day to ensure that all citizens are equal in rights and freedoms, regardless of their place of residence, race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion or ideology. That's how we work and vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, it is not worth defending equality in matters of language but not in matters of sexual orientation and identity. It is not worth defending the freedom to go to bars but not the freedom to love anyone you want and position yourself with a shy abstention when you want to repeal the LGTBI law in Madrid. That is not defending freedom, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. I say again to the Socialist Party that it seems to them that I hate what they preach from some governments like Hungary or Poland against homosexuals - I also think I hate and fight it, I hate it and we will do everything we can to keep this from happening - but why does it not seem to them that they hate what their nationalist partners in Catalonia propose against the Spanish-speaking people who refuse to be Catalans? It seems to them that it is hatred that motivates homophobic segregations-it seems to me too and I vote against it in two hands - but you vote conscientiously when you refuse to ban tributes to ages that led your hatred of Spanish democracy to crime. Isn't that hate? Why, ladies and gentlemen, are you not able to see hatred and fascism harassing a minor for asking to speak in Spanish? I want to call for accountability and an open look when we talk about equality and the fight against discrimination, but to condemn any kind of attack on equality; not just one, not just another, not just those that suit me at any given time. Let us be consistent with the struggle for the equality of all people. Citizens will vote in favour of this initiative, because we will always be on the side of equality without any nuance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, respect for the rights of the LGTB collective in Poland and Hungary must be demanded. It is a matter of defending human rights and the Galego Nationalist Block will always be in favour, it will always be at the forefront demanding respect for human rights. That is why we also want to ask the PSOE for consistency for two reasons. First, we think it is right to complain in Poland and Hungary, but what about other countries such as Saudi Arabia, to which the Spanish State sells weapons - weapons, by the way, which are used to bomb the civilian population in Yemen - and which do not respect the rights of the LGBTI population or the rights of women or the most basic human rights? What happens to Morocco, a preferred partner of the Spanish Government, which also uses the weapons sold to it to attack the Saharan population and which does not respect any human rights? [[Applauds]] Secondly, we believe that in the Spanish State itself we must ensure that the rights recognized can be exercised with determined policies that can stop this wave of homophobic aggression and avoid new cases such as Samuel Luiz's. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u75	Thank you very much, President. Two weeks ago Mr Abascal invited the Presidents of Poland and Hungary to a summit of European 'patriots'. In Poland, his Government promoted LGTBI-free zones. In Hungary it is forbidden to talk about sexual or gender diversity in educational establishments, because they consider that it is a deviation all that goes beyond their narrow conception of family. Mr Abascal, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros and many VOX deputies have sons and daughters, like me. What would one of these VOX deputies say to a daughter or a child of his or her own if he told them one day that he or she was LGBT? To hide? Shut up at school your condition? Going to a conversion, depuration or re-education therapy? What would you say if one day VOX forces PP to make Madrid a free zone of LGTBI? What would you tell your son? Getting out of your vests somewhere else? [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: We have them!- Rumours]] [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u76	It's been a minute and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u77	I know what I said to my daughter: All I care about is that you're very happy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am voting in favour of this initiative, because we in the PeCAT believe that the founding values of the Union have been in question for a long time and that the Orbán-Abascal tandem has a lot to do with this issue. We have long wanted to point out that freedom and equality are inventions of the progressives in Brussels, when in reality freedom and equality are the result of many liberal victories that have taken place in Brussels and elsewhere in Europe - also here - and that we must defend and preserve. I say this because one begins by saying that freedom and equality are progressive values that can be dispensed with and ends by saying that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is also a document that can be dispensed with. This, ladies and gentlemen, is dangerous and is worth alerting all European citizens we believe in defending human rights, freedoms and equality throughout Europe. That is why, as I said, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina said at the end of his last speech that he wished us all a Merry Christmas and that he wanted the child to come to bring us all the unity that the separatists want to take away, as if the unity of Spain were a sacred question collected in the sacred scriptures. I, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this trivialization and manipulation of the text, in the face of this attempt to turn around the issues that are important even at this time, at the doors of these Christmas holidays, I would tell you to take advantage of this holiday to read the Bible, if you have not done so, and to understand what is said in it, if you have not understood it. About the unity of Spain nothing is said in the Bible, but what is said in the Bible is that of 'love one another as I have loved you and in this you will all know that you are my disciples'. I say this because what you are defending, what you are proposing not only here, but elsewhere in Europe, is dangerous. It is very difficult, Your Honor, to hold Orbán with one hand and hold the Bible in the other, if you understand what the Bible is and what is said in it, with which I recommend to you, Your Honors, that you read the Bible, that you understand what is said in it and that we may also discuss in these terms - if you wish, Your Honor, that I will enjoy very much - what are the rights, what is freedom, what is love, what is compassion and what is empathy, that is what is spoken of in the Bible. Ladies and gentlemen, I end by wishing you a Merry Christmas, and above all to you, and to use that time to read it, so that we can discuss and have this debate when this season has passed. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Mr. Valentí. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Virgin of Czestochowa, the most venerated in Poland and, as you can see, has the rainbow flag, symbol of the LGTB collective, in its halo. [[shows an illustration]] The author is Elzbieta Podlesna, a Catholic, a believer and a prominent Polish human rights activist. In May 2019, the police searched her house when she was away, and found these kinds of works. She is now accused of offending religious beliefs and, if found guilty, could be sentenced to up to two years in prison. This is the cover of a storybook titled A Fairy Tale for All, which in Hungary has become a symbol of resistance for LGBT people. [[shows an illustration]] Its pages feature characters from traditional fairy tales, such as Cinderella. Cinderella here is not a girl, but a gypsy-ethnic boy who falls in love with someone else at a party, for example. This book has awakened the fury of Víktor Orbán, an ally of VOX, who already in 2018 suspended the roles of the musical Billy Elliot; a government that undertook its crusade against LGBT people years ago, with hate policies that have only been able to legitimize and increase the phobia of LGBT aggressions. We see that all attacks on sexual freedom, freedom of expression, LGBTI people by the most conservative sectors of the European Union are not left unanswered by civil society. Therefore, they cannot be left unanswered in the institutions, especially when trying to institutionalize the LGTBphobia in Poland, Hungary, but also here, without going further in those autonomous communities where the People's Party governs, such as Andalusia, Madrid or Murcia, supported by VOX; a cowardly People's Party, which is absolutely conditioned by the far right. The dizzying decline in rights and freedoms in European Union member countries such as Hungary and Poland should worry us, because it has the VOX endorsement. Moreover, VOX works - how little it works - to make it happen here too. And in front of that, the People's Party prefers to look the other way. This situation report, just out of the oven, on the extreme right and anti-feminism in Europe, explains very well that the demands of women and LGBTI people for them face the sensitive elements of the identity of some countries. [[shows a document]] This perspective subordinates women's rights to their role in a heteronormative family model, in which their status as mothers is decisive and, by placing the family in the centre and considering that LGBTI people are not fit to form the family, these people are delegitimized as subjects of rights. The People's Party is an accomplice to this strategy that challenges the democratic paradigm. In the meantime, UN We can defend human rights and the rule of law in the European Union without doubt, and will vote in favour of this initiative to continue resolutely along this path, as the Government of Spain is developing. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I will also take this opportunity to tell you that we fully agree with the amendment tabled by the Republican Left of Catalonia. The PNL is very good because, above all, the right is going to be portrayed, but there is a law being processed that has to be passed now, and the ministries involved cannot obstruct what the Ministry of Equality has proposed, which has been a victory for the rights of LGBT people. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, let it be very clear to you that there is a Spain that claims the streets with the dissident pride of continuing to exist despite everything, that it dares to imagine a future free of all kinds of discrimination, a future in which no one else has to feel ashamed or be raped because of existence, a future where hatred has no place, and that it is very clear what Silvia Riera expressed wonderfully: we have to be visible, we should not be ashamed of who we are, we have to show the world that we are numerous, that there are many people like us out there. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Do you know who treats people differently, depending on their sexual orientation? You guys. It is you and only you who are committed to classifying the Spaniards for their sexual tendency. We don't care. [[Applauds]] For us, human beings are not their sexuality, because sexuality is such a small part of life... You can't imagine how different the world looks when you look at people and not at sexual tendencies. How different and difficult it has to turn out to be progress and to have to classify people as heterosexual, homosexual, binary, non-binary, racialized, transgender. What a difficult world! Really, man's a lot, he's a lot more. We believe in man as a bearer of eternal values, with an intrinsic and irreplaceable dignity. We are in a hypersexualized world and yet we have never been treated with less respect and affection for the person and his sexuality. We don't care if someone's gay or straight. Just pretend to divide and categorize people. Just want to introduce ideology into every sphere of our lives. You have turned sex, bodies, interpersonal relationships and life itself into goods, into objects of consumption, obedient to economic globalism. You are perfect servants of the system who claim to fight. [[Applauds]] Ordinary people don't care about anyone's sexual tendency, they worry if the other one looks for the common good, if he's supportive, if he's honest, if he's polite, if he's a good neighbor. But for you it is important, and the most unfortunate of all that is important because it is profitable. Because you, and those who give you the orders, earn a lot by collectiveizing people for their sexual tendency, for their sex or for their race. We believe that no one should be legislated on the basis of their sexuality. The privacy of individuals should not be the subject of public judgment and we reject any legislation that confers privileges or pseudo-rights on the basis of the sex or sexual tendency of the person. [[Laughs.-A honourable Member: A little respect, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u85	And we also come to break a myth: the LGTB lobby has nothing to do with homosexual people. Mrs. de Esquerra has told the LGTB collective fifteen times. It's not a collective, they're people and they deserve individual respect. [[Applauds]] It is a lobby and here we have one of the examples of what the lobby does with homosexuals: a guide distributed in Spanish universities that tells homosexuals how they have to get high in sex sessions, financed by all of you, financed by the Ministry of Health and the Generalitat of Catalonia. [[shows a poster]] [[protests.-Laughter]] [[Show another sign.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u86	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u87	This is the caricature that the lobby does and that you make of homosexuals, ladies and gentlemen. [[showing another sign]] [[Applauds]] We are not going to accept moral lessons from anyone, we are not going to allow either us or the Spaniards voting for VOX to be stigmatized for not accepting the ideological impositions of the lobby. You say in your initiative that Hungarians and Poles are bad. They are not bad, they are free; they are free from lobbies and pressure groups; they are free because they are not going to condition their policies to a series of engineers who develop guides on how to get high and distribute them in universities. [[Protests.-Laughter.]] You are free, and that is what bothers you about Hungary and Poland. Do you know what places you're going to get to be free of homosexual people? Barcelona, Paris, Berlin or Stockholm, with their open border policies that seriously threaten the security of our nations. And it is that massively importing people from cultures where others are hanged because of their sexual tendency has consequences in our neighborhoods. Those who are condemning homosexuals are you, as are women victims of herds, girls victims of ablation or arranged marriages. A clarification for the parties in this House: anti-democratic is not what you do not like. You have tried to make the whole group of Spaniards believe that there were debates that were closed, that a majority of pointed Spaniards should be silent because their opinions do not correspond to those of this century. And this is over. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u88	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u89	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist Group brings us here today a non-legislative proposal against speeches of intolerance and discrimination against LGBTI people in Poland and Hungary, in which it urges the government - who are themselves - to promote in the European Union the defence of the rights and freedoms of LGBTI people. At least that's what we were supposed to be talking about. Hear it well, hear it well all the groups that have spoken before me: my parliamentary group, which is the People's Party, is against all, all the speeches of intolerance and discrimination, whether in Hungary, Poland, Catalonia or the Basque Country. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: Very well]] We are not only against the discourses of intolerance and discrimination, but also against the facts that lead, by action or omission, to such intolerance and discrimination being actually exercised. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to defend, in particular, all those who suffer from intolerance and discrimination because of their sexual choice in countries that are not the subject of concern by the Socialist Group, countries such as Cuba, Palestine or Iran, and even some other countries where the President of the Government is travelling and is unable to defend what you are asking of us here today. [[Applauds]] That is why it is a crook, a malicious crook, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that you bring this GNP today with a petitum in which you urge the government, which you are yourselves, to do and promote something in the European Union that is already fulfilled. I understand you don't read the things your president does, but keep an eye on yourself, because this way you're going to realize to him that you do. It was at the European Council on 24 June - it is true that in that Council you did not applaud him, perhaps that is why - where Sánchez signed a letter, with seventeen other heads of State, saying: Faced with the threats within the European Union against fundamental rights and, in particular, the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation - they have it on the website of La Moncloa, if they do not find it - so the first point that you present in this GNP is already fulfilled. But it is also that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, a member of our political family, has opened a sanctioning file to Hungary and Poland for violating the rights of LGBT people. That is to say, the second point of your GNP is also fulfilled. So you want to tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what do you intend to do by presenting a debate where there is no such debate? You are constantly trying to turn around on the same issues with the intention of fully polarising the debates in this House, and then blaming others, as you have been doing all afternoon, for doing so. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, in addition to being very shameful, because you are playing with subjects that are very sensitive and that affect the essentials of people, in this case sexual orientation, is dangerous, because it causes exactly the opposite that you claim to defend: lack of respect, radicalisation, polarisation and, finally, hatred. And all this for not talking about the price of light, which is what really matters to all Spaniards today. [[Applauds]] My group believes that equality, respect and dignity of human rights are fundamental values of the European Union, so we are against and denounce and condemn the intolerance and discrimination of LGBTI people in Hungary, Poland and the rest of the world. But we are also against, denounce and condemn the intolerance and discrimination of Catalan children who want to study in Spanish in Catalonia and you, the Government of Spain, do not defend them. And we are also against and denounce and condemn the sexual exploitation of minors, especially those who are protected by the social services of the Government, as has happened in the Balearic Islands. Do yourself a favor and stop looking for straw in the eye of others, look a little bit and dare to feel shame. Give a solution to what is happening in Spain, which here can not only do so, but must do so and it is, no more or less, their obligation. Condemn the attacks suffered by young people of the People's Party in the Basque Country, condemn and put an end to the terrible discrimination being suffered by Catalan families who want their children to study in the official languages, condemn and investigate the case of sexually exploited minors in the Balearic Islands. It is not so much to ask, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it is not so much to ask. It is the same thing that you ask and, if not, reread your petitum with eyes - which are these - which today are already those of the great majority of Spaniards. Thank you very much; I also wish you very happy Christmas. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Ferro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I ask Mrs Pedraja Sáinz whether she accepts her group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u91	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pedraja. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO STRENGTHENING IBEROSPHERE THROUGH THE CONSIGURATION AND ARTICULATION OF A MULTINATIONAL AREA OF COUNTRIES OF SPANISH LANGUAGES AND PORTUGUESE OF ALL CONTINUES. [[File number 162/000792]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u93	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group aimed at strengthening the iberosphere through the configuration and articulation of a multinational space of Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries of all continents. Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u94	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right now, in these times of constant and systematic persecution and harassment of Spanish in our own nation, just now when in Catalonia, the Basque Country and the Balearic Islands, but also in Galicia ruled for decades by the People's Party, it is not possible to study, win opposition or address the Administration using the official language of the State, the own and common language of all Spaniards; just now when the social communists who have governed us for just a year have agreed with all those who want to break Spain's exit from the Spanish classrooms to take forward the budgets; just now when those who should do so renounce to defend a five-year-old child and his family against the harassment of the Generalitat of Catalonia, it is right now that we consider it most important and urgent in VOX to claim the common and defend it. Spain is not an invention of yesterday, ours is one of the oldest nations in the world, and it is also one of the countries that has historically contributed most to intensifying relations among the peoples of all continents. Spain was the one who made the first globalization, reminds us of the extraordinary documentary by José Luis López Linares, recently released. The adventure of facing the limit of the unknown and reaching the new world was a dream come true thanks to the Spanish kings. Spanish was Juan Sebastián Elcano, the first to turn the world around. It was Spain that carried the best of itself beyond its geographical limits, which founded the first universities outside Spain, which started what we call a mestizaje today, and which laid the foundations for what human rights are today. But Spain, in addition, has a shared past with many peoples of the world, of which, against black legends, historical revisionisms and systematic attacks, we have to be very proud; in VOX we are and, in addition, we are aware of the duty to transfer it to our children. But Spain also has a present and a future that find in Hispanicity one of our great shared strengths; the footprint of what our ancestors did remains very present in a very important number of nations close to Spain in historical, affective and cultural terms, particularly linked by language. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are bringing to this House today tells us about healthy ambition, openness, the future, supporting what unites us and opening us up to more than 30 countries with which we share a great deal. The reality of an increasingly globalized, interdependent and interconnected world; the convergences and affinities between the Ibero-American community, that of Portuguese-speaking countries and that of the countries of the Iberian languages in general justify this proposal. More than eight hundred million people and about thirty countries in the world share the two main Iberian languages, Spanish and Portuguese, sister languages; languages that, together with many deep and numerous elements of cultural, historical, geopolitical and cooperation nature, form the basis of a shared multinational space that we call the Iberian sphere. Articulating and developing this space of cooperation is, moreover, a constitutional mandate whose fullness we seek with this GNP. The Magna Charter in its preamble sets out the fundamental foundations for Spain's openness to the international community, and article 56 underlines the close links that our country has with the nations of its historic community. After more than thirty years of productive Ibero-American summits, which are the highest political-diplomatic and multilateral expression of the ties that bind us, and after the identification of priority countries for Spanish cooperation outside the strict Ibero-American space, and the establishment of initiatives such as successive Africa plans, it is necessary to take another step. It is high time to recognize that the historical community of Spain and all countries of the cyberosphere is broader and reaches all continents, encompassing countries such as Angola, the Philippines, Equatorial Guinea, East Timor, Cape Verde and the Sephardic communities. Strengthening this space will help to give greater visibility and international influence to the countries we share in Spanish and Portuguese, to promote international and triangular cooperation between States of America, Europe, Asia and Africa. And that is what we propose to you with this non-law proposal; an ambitious, well-founded proposal that highlights the unity factor that constitutes Spanish together with Portuguese, and that refers us to a substantial past on which to build a future of great potential and alliance between nations, strongly linked by language and culture. However, in this Parliament it is very difficult for many of you to understand the scope of the proposal we are debating today, occupied as they are in destroying Spain. It is very difficult for them to understand this, given the contempt with which they treat Spanish within our borders, and it is enough to refer to recent events in Catalonia. There it has been shown that the value of unity that Spanish has, no longer among the most diverse nations in the world, but among the different regions of Spain, is not only despised by the governments of all the autonomous communities where there is a co-official language, but also by the Government of the nation itself, which, by its omission, allows the systematic attack on Spanish to be promoted as the main weapon of destruction of national unity. It is that the unity of which we speak has nothing to do with that united society of which the Government speaks, which consists in that more than half of the population in Catalonia cannot use their language, nor with that consensus that consists in keeping the population silent, gagged and quiet. [[Applauds]] And it is that to understand this proposition one must have height of sight, love for our roots, our history and all those values which, proudly, have shaped our identity and our nation and which have been preserved in our language. A pride of belonging is what would have to sprout from hearts grateful for the legacy we have inherited. Too bad some people give up something so big. But, we are here to remind you and all Spaniards of the greatness we are called to regain and enhance our own, starting with our common language, Spanish, and which should be the greatest factor of unity and peaceful coexistence among all of us. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Trias Gil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados spoke in defence of the amendments put forward by her groups, first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group brings to debate and vote a non-legislative proposal aimed at highlighting the concept of iberosphere, coined by the extreme right-wing party itself. According to his proposal and the echoes of his related media that have been made of it, the Iberosphere would be the equivalent of the Commonwealth of Nations for the United Kingdom or the French-speaking France, but applied to Spain and Portugal. That is, it would be the community of countries that speak Spanish and Portuguese or have a great historical legacy, a result of the colonial presence of Spain or Portugal. In fact, VOX has even taken this concept to a medium of communication that has driven: The Gaceta of the Ibero Sphere. From Citizens we have always defended that Spain is an average power with a global vocation, and that it has the appropriate instruments to enforce that status throughout the world. However, in recent years our country has lacked vocation and political will to make that vocation a reality. While the government of Felipe González had the decisive impulse to bring our country between the powers of the European Union and that of José María Aznar did the same in the transatlantic space, the last governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been a failure for Spanish foreign action. The government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero ended our position in Latin America by positioning us closer to authoritarian regimes of the extreme left than to defenders of democracy and the rule of law. For its part, Mariano Rajoy's government was unable to defend and promote our interests in the European Union, especially when Spain was at the worst of the economic crisis of 2012 and 2013. For us the problem is that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have had a misguided view of what a modern Spain can do in the globalized world of the twenty-first century. In the meantime, the left is afraid to enhance the role that our country can play in the world, weakening itself, and therefore, when it comes to asserting the interests of the Spaniards, it deals more with identity issues than with emphasizing what differentiates us and not what unites us. On the other hand, conservatives continue to see Spain with black and white glasses, filled with nostalgia for the past than with optimism for the future, pretending that we continue to live a world more similar to the Golden Age than in the globalized and connected world in which we live today. So, with such misdiagnosis of geopolitics in the international relations of the twenty-first century, how are the left and conservatives going to get the solutions right? Citizens have tabled amendments to this non-legislative proposal because we believe that, although the objective could be good, it does not prove what our country really needs. That is why our amendment proposes to focus on the effort in the Ibero-American Community of Nations, the main instrument of cooperation that we have between Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking countries. We need to be efficient with the use of public resources and, therefore, we believe that existing bodies need to be improved, making them more effective and giving them more competence to meet these objectives in the light of cost-effectiveness. We also believe that we should enhance the existing figure in the Ibero-American Community of Nations of the Associated State so that other Spanish-speaking or Lusophone countries or countries with important Spanish-speaking communities can join the Ibero-American summits that are held every two years. On the other hand, we also believe that it is necessary to facilitate the participation of Spanish-speaking or Lusophone communities whose States have not expressed their willingness to join this community, either by geographical dispersion such as the Sephardic community, or by their linguistic minority status, such as the Spanish-speaking community of the United States or other English-speaking Caribbean countries. Finally, we believe it is necessary to accompany these measures of economic resources. Citizens have already raised in the handling of the General State Budgets for 2021 and 2022 the need to provide budgetary support for a programme to defend Spanish and Hispanic heritage in the world, although the Government has refused to accept it on both occasions. As I say, if VOX does not accept our amendment, we will have to vote against this non-legislative proposal. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez Granados. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u98	Thank you, Madam President. We are faced with the paradox that it is the Spanish ultra-right, which permanently attacks our languages and cultures, which presents an initiative to intensify it in collaboration with the Portuguese-speaking countries. Paradox Only apparent because behind his proposal and the pompous term iberosphere it is not possible to disguise the supremacist and assimilationist tufo of all time, a kind of neocolonialism to which he would like to place under the command stick of his dream and expiration imperial Madrid all the countries in which Spanish or Portuguese are official. [[Applauds]] They have no credibility to seriously defend a sincere collaboration, none, with the Portuguese, in view of their hostile attitude with the Galician, because Galician and Portuguese, even if they can use different regulations, are the same language or variant of the same language, as the whole Romanesque linguistics believes. You, who provoke an algarabia every time I speak here in Galician, do you pretend that we believe you want a cordial and respectful relationship with the Portuguese? Let me get this straight. [[Continue your intervention in Galician]] Look how respectful they are, who say in their initiative that countries like Angola or Mozambique are of Iberian cultural roots, nothing more and nothing less, or that even after meeting with the Portuguese fascist party Arri, they published a map of the Peninsula as if it were Spain, Portugal included. No one more interested than Galicia in deepening relations with the Lusophone countries. In fact, the Galician Parliament unanimously approved in October 2018 a request for Galicia to be incorporated into the Portuguese-speaking community. But, of course, this is not what VOX is thinking. Abascal meets André Ventura and annexes Portugal on the map; he goes to Brazil to visit the genocidal and fascist Bolsonaro and returns talking about the iberosphere, always from a perspective of Spanish supremacism. In any case, as a Galician, a Democrat and an internationalist... [[Finish your speech in Galician.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u99	Thank you, Mr. Rego Candaimil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u100	Thank you very much, President. I have read and listened carefully to your proposal. And you know what it smells like? To that phalangist song entitled Snowy Mountains, which forced us to learn those of the OJE in the Francoist camps, which said that of going by imperial routes walking towards God. They speak in this proposition - which is rancid and old, with a nostalgic tuft of lost imperialism, a Franco mustache - of fighting against the homogenizing cosmovisions of globalization. You! You who want us to be unilingual, who promote wretched wars against the languages that we have spoken for centuries millions of people who have been born here and who live here. You prefer to promote Portuguese rather than a language here, a language spoken in Catalonia, in Euskadi, in the Valencià Country, in Aragon, in Asturias, in Galicia, in Navarre. If you could, you would forbid us to speak the language we have spoken for centuries and centuries. You want a small, boring and exclusive country. They won't make it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u102	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Look, Mrs. Trias, if I'm a little ill-conceived, I thought you'd forgotten to put something from Catalan on your initiative and I'd correct it here. But not only has it not been corrected, but it has made it worse, because you know in how many different states Catalan is spoken, for example? Do you know? In four. I say this because it would also be interesting to propose an alliance similar to that proposed by you, if you defended Catalan as you defend Spanish, for the Catalan language, or for the Basque language, or for any of the other languages spoken in this territory. Because Catalan, which is a language that we speak independentists and not independentists although it weighs on them, although we cannot use it in this House or in many spaces, where in theory the language we speak should be defended and protected, needs its support as well. You mentioned Catalan only at a moment in your speech and it was to criticize - as you said - the contempt of the governments in the territories where there is a co-official language. Do you know what your problem is, Mrs. Trias? That any defense that is made of a tongue other than the Castilian, for you, is an attack on the Castilian. Far from that, Your Honor, the wealth and diversity we have in the territories that we have one or more co-official languages is something that you should defend and protect and not see as an attack on any language, because, Your Honor, it is not. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u103	Thank you, Mr. Miquel and Valenti. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Since June 2018 Spanish foreign policy has lacked direction and direction: four ministers in three years, with permanent changes at all levels of government. Today we have the last, that of the Secretary of State for the European Union, a particularly relevant and sensitive position because Europe is our main area of external action and we are at the door of a Presidency of the European Union. With that cessation, Mr Álvarez gives a new bandage, showing that with the Sánchez government the worst is always to come. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] If today's European funds are rotted in the drawers because of their inability to manage it, this ceases to anticipate that the European Presidency is only intended to be an electoral campaign without any political content for the future of Europe, nothing at all. Lack of ideas, confetti and serpentines. Yours, Mr de Podemos and the Socialist Group, is a government that also forgets that our role in the European Union is gaining weight by our Ibero-American dimension. The glamorous situation of the European Union-Mercosur Agreement is a good reflection of the lack of interest and forgetfulness of the Sánchez government for Latin America. To fight for Latin America is to achieve concrete benefits, such as withdrawing visas for Peruvians and Colombians. The fact that for some time the Secretariat of State for Ibero-America had even been suppressed reflects the total lack of a State policy for a region with which we have strong historical and cultural ties and not a few economic interests. Meanwhile, they have encouraged and supported the activities of Puebla Group. In fact, Sánchez's real foreign minister for the region has been former President Zapatero, an expert in whitening all kinds of dictatorships, especially Venezuelan. During his presidency, he stole the Venezuelan people from his own embassy and now shields the dictatorship and seeks to enslave his ministers in Barajas, humiliating those who claim freedom. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the Foreign Committee of the United States Senate its chairman, Democrat Bob Menéndez, said that the Sánchez government takes views that are outside of democracy and the human rights provisions that we expect from a NATO ally. The new American ambassador to Spain also recognized the mediocre policy towards Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua of the Spanish Government. You can't be surprised that Biden only gave 30 seconds in a hallway to Mr. Sanchez. This is how they see them today in the world's first democracy: as defenders of dictatorships. Spain has two very powerful instruments for its policy towards Ibero-America. The first, his status as an observer member of the Pacific Alliance, to which he acceded thanks to the Government of the People's Party in 2012, but, above all, the mechanism of the Ibero-American summits; summits that were launched in 1991 in Guadalajara, Mexico. That first summit has been one of the major milestones of our foreign policy and is another reason to recognize the exceptional figure of King Don Juan Carlos, the true driving force behind this historic achievement; a system of summits that has since evolved, expanded its capacity for action and, among other reforms, has been endowed with a permanent secretariat. I am convinced that the new Secretary General of the Segib, the so far foreign minister of Chile, Andrés Allamand, one of the most prestigious politicians in the region, will be able to give him the impetus he needs, especially at the time of polarization that the region lives with populisms of both signs that try to break their societies. Therefore, in view of the amalgamation of ideas that includes the proposal that we are debating today, the People's Party proposes that they focus on Segib, empower and give the new Secretary-General scope to expand and strengthen his field of action, also geographical, from there. There is no need for new institutions, but for strong support for existing ones. It is not necessary to invent new terms to describe the consequences of the first globalization that Spain and Portugal promoted five centuries ago, but to realize what identifies us all. That is why the People's Party proposes to them to continue to support what has worked very well for thirty years. In these times, when we question what we have done since the transition, let us all commit ourselves to all that we have done well together and that we can be proud of. That's what it's like to believe in Spain. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Hispan. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a good initiative, of which we point out high, because it rightly puts in value the great possibilities of the so-called Ibero-speaking countries, which there are on the five continents, although we are often forgotten, and all this to form and amplify a multinational geopolitical lever, a trampoline that, among other things, can serve as a counterweight to the threats to freedom and the perverse effects of globalization that invades, corneres and, ultimately, it is a question of subjecting to guidelines in which the enormous potential of territories united by a common history and the link of the Spanish and Portuguese languages, spoken by eight hundred million people, is diluted. And all this, without forgetting that globalism relegates, when it does not destroy, a vast cultural legacy and centuries-old traditions of common roots forged in a shared history. The broad content and detail of the explanatory statement justifies the need for this non-legislative proposal, which effectively addresses the content of the constitutional text and promotes, as Mrs Trias Gil has pointed out, the rapprochement, greater knowledge and cooperation in all the Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking peoples and countries of all continents. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the growing contempt in some places, even from official quarters, for the historical legacy spread throughout the world over centuries, starting with common languages that bring together so many millions of Iberophonic speakers and the contempt for a culture that civilized there where there was only savagery, a policy that puts it in value becomes indispensable and irrefutable. Today, far from cultivating it and taking advantage of its potential, this heritage is the object of attacks and denigrating external campaigns, also internal ones, right here without going any further. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, part of what is reflected in this non-legislative proposal is not new. In fact, the great novelty would be for the Spanish Government to get to work and promote greater knowledge and cooperation between all the Spanish-speaking and Lusophone peoples and countries of the five continents, which is one of the proposals urged by this initiative that has been called Iberosphere, an international space capable of generating influence in order to complete socio-economic cooperation and concertation tasks that promote freedom and human rights by confronting the tyranny and totalitarianisms that seriously threaten them. It is also a great opportunity to take advantage of the gradual accession of Ibero-speaking countries to international and supranational organizations, which has been a constant since the last decade. Just review the incorporation as observers from Lusophone and Iberophone countries to different organizations. Other initiatives have been added to the Ibero-American Community of Nations and its summits, such as the Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science and Culture, in which, together with Spain, where it is based here in Madrid, there are twenty-two other Member States and seven other observers, five of them with Iberian cultural roots on the continent of Africa and one in Asia. The Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries has also joined as observers Spanish-speaking and Iberophone countries such as Uruguay, Argentina, Chile and Andorra with Equatorial Guinea, the only Spanish-speaking State in Africa, which is precisely the only non-Luxophone country that is a full member of that community of countries. I would like to quote the Ibero-American Organization for Social Security, also based here in Spain, created in the middle of the last century, from which a dozen countries promote the economic and social well-being linked by the Spanish and Portuguese language through the coordination, exchange and use of their mutual experiences in Social Security and in general in the field of social protection. In short, beyond these and other examples, the capacity for competing interests and the existence of an international bloc of enormous demographic, linguistic and geographical relevance, which forms an iberosphere, in whose development it is crucial that the Spanish Government is involved in its expansion and development, has been demonstrated. That is why I voted in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u108	Thank you, President. Eskerrik asko. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. 'After his highness has subjected to barbaric peoples and nations of various languages, with conquest there will come the need to accept the laws that the conqueror imposes on the conquered, and among them our language; with this work of mine, they will be able to learn it, just as we learn Latin through Latin grammar.' These words of Antonio de Nebrija were addressed to the Queen of Spain on the occasion of her Grammar, the first in Spanish, and were published in 1492, that year which is so satisfying to celebrate some and which is synonymous with destruction and pain for the descendants of the peoples of Latin America. Nebrija was very aware of the power of the language to facilitate the process of colonization of the new lands, and was not mistaken, she adopted the language as a weapon of conquest. A unified language would maintain the imposition of the crown among the peoples conquered for a long time. Yes, Nebrija was perfectly aware of the process of legitimizing authority through language, because she knew that converting a language into the prevailing media invalidated legal or political expressions made in other languages, in other languages or even in other dialects. This non-VOX law proposition demonstrates many things, but above all it shows that the ladies and gentlemen of VOX are lost in a century that is not ours. It is also visible that they have problems of space and time, and as they have problems of space and temporality, that is why they live in that imaginary territory, that of the iberosphere; a strange galaxy in which the term iberosphere is not very clear either, because, in the end, we do not know whether they advocate putting Spain as a sort of exoplanet, where the other countries are satellites of their gravitational force, or if it is only a delusion of greatness, possibly everything in the same nebula. I have come to read in the text an allusion to the Iberophonic space saying that it will constitute the world's first linguistic space and even measure it, to translate it into surface measures saying that it would be equivalent to one fifth of the planet's surface. What a grandeur, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative sounds like the tropism of the bad, they try to express the Hispanic grandeur as Trump did with the greatness of the United States, they try the conceptual implementation of the Spanish empire and, therefore, of national linguistic supremacy and thus re-found the dream of the old empire and they invent concepts, because apparently they are not enough with the terminology of Hispanic prepotence. They once again coin fire flags on their former slaves - Hispanoamerica, Iberoamerica, the motherland, and now iberosphere - which, in addition to regaining the essential concept of Spanish colonialism, beyond what is conceivable, aims to expand and collect with it the forces of authoritarianism, of dictatorships sown in Latin America. The linguistic issue is not neutral, obviously, and in this initiative seeks to press for ways of feeling and thinking, elements that are configured by the language from a supposed culture that, to further aggravate, was imposed on blood and fire. Ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday in Chile, in the second round of elections, a crucial battle was fought. A victory of the far right candidate would not only have been a disaster for Chile, but would also have decisively boosted the influence of the far right throughout the area. Braking Kast won't stand alone to face the extreme right-wing phenomenon in Latin America, but Boric's victory and Kast's defeat do serve to face a 2022 challenge in the battle against the reactionary wave that strikes Latin America and Europe. He loses Kast and loses Abascal, loses Uribe and loses Macri, loses Bolsonaro and Fujimori, and loses this iberosphere whose operating control space is in Madrid. It is good news, because the worst of his policy of hatred and inventions, of his dreams of greatness, in that his iberosphere, his galaxy of cultural imperialism is that humanity's worst nightmares return to the order of the day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u110	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, intervene from the seat because I won't be more than a minute and a half. I held this non-legislative proposition 'The Nostalgia of the Empire'. What times did those who lived where the sun never set, right, gentlemen of VOX? Reading his proposal, I have just been about to add an amendment that the Treaty of Tordesillas should be re-edited, or at least updated, or that of San Ildefonso, which was after El Pardo, the next one that updated the Treaty of Tordesillas. It is a Eurocentric vision of the world, but in the background it is Hispanic, and they put the Portuguese to conceal, that we do not know what they think of all these dreams of theirs, since historically they have not been much for the work of sharing adventures with the Spaniards. In any case, you refer to those issues that are so ours, but I would say they are yours, because they are not mine. They use the hook of culture and language, but in the background there is a tufilo and a background of imperialist nostalgia of that Spain - which was not such, because it was not Spain, but you don't care - of Philip II and of the glorious deeds of Flanders and America. We live in the 21st century and, even more importantly, we live in the European Union, and you want to raise this issue as a sort of alternative to the European Union, because I know that you do not like the European Union, you do not dislike the idea of Europe or the founding values or what the European Union is today, and that is why you have to look for another alternative. In their dilettante and dreamy proposition of law, in which they come up and mix everything, they end up searching for origins and Hispanic heritage everywhere; they lack to claim the Kingdom of Naples or that of the two Sicilias, and they can even search for Spanish traces in Abu Dhabi, surely. His imperialist dreams, clad in linguistic and cultural goodness, recall a certain desire for colonialist renewal. A week ago, staging a telenovela performance, the Spanishman was in danger of extinction, and now turns out to be the world champion, almost the second most important language in transmission and knowledge, with six hundred million speakers. Are there six hundred million speakers and are in danger of extinction? For not one thing or the other; all in its right measure. On the subject of this question, rather than raising global epics, why do they not care about their environment, the environment they have closest, and care for and respect what they have in their own State? I have never heard them, not even make a small gesture, for the protection, promotion and officiality of the Basque, Catalan or Galician, which, by the way, are not co-officials, are official; learn it, are official. It is clear that his Spanish vision is so closed and so old that it has no place either in societies or in modern or European minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u112	Thank you, President. I imagine that when VOX presented this initiative to strengthen the ties of this imaginary territory of the iberosphere, he thought that this very week could celebrate a victory of his allies, to whom, by the way, they consider his subjects, in Latin America, specifically in Chile. I don't think your think tanks are right. Chile has put an end to the inherited regime of pinochetism and begins a new stage of social justice and the return of power to the people at the hand of Gabriel Boric Font. Congratulations to the people of Xile. [[Applauds]] Let us look for a moment at this initiative that is being presented to us, which in essence aims to return back to the year 1884, and to hold a new Berlin Conference in which a few powers divide the territories outside Europe. It would be very interesting to know where this machine of time comes from to somehow be born two centuries before the rest of society. The extreme right of VOX today proposes to extend the scope of action of the Iberian sphere. Most Members and Members and listeners will probably wonder what exactly this is about the iberosphere. This is the same question that we have asked ourselves in our parliamentary group. Turns out it's a word that doesn't exist, invented by themselves. Apparently, apart from self considered architects, they now consider themselves academics of the language. This concept is supposed to include those territories where some of the languages of the Iberian Peninsula are spoken, i.e., it is a concept which arises from the Spanish and Portuguese States and which aims to be imposed on the rest of the territories where the same languages are spoken. It is VOX's sympathetic way of asserting that they need to return to the times of the Spanish empire. But, besides, they do it too far. As they are still incapable of asserting such barbarity, they now propose to create a sort of Iberian commonwealth, of which they assume that the Spanish State would be the potential leader, without realizing that they should be imposed on Brazil and Mexico, which demographically and geographically have a predominant force. Maybe, just maybe, they didn't even think about it, because they also consider themselves settlers. It is an alliance that includes all the territories with languages spoken on the Iberian Peninsula, but note that they forget the French State, where Catalan, Basque and Occitan are spoken, and the Italian State, where Catalan is spoken, but which they do not forget is Andorra. But they are equally surprised if they discover that the only official language in Andorra is Catalan. They are even able to say that in Andorra Spanish is oppressed. And in this commonwealth, the Spanish-speaking territories are joined together with the Portuguese-speaking territories, as if the Portuguese for VOX were the badly spoken Spanish. And they do so for a reason, in order to be able to work together with the fascist president of Brazil, Jail Bolsonaro, someone who makes death threats his way of doing politics. These are your references. Let me end by referring to those parties that are considering voting in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Behind so much imagination is the VOX think tank that publishes articles against gay and elaborate marriage. To vote in favour of this initiative also means promoting these ideas. Don't give them more speakers than they already have. By the way, a service information. Its think tank, which we do not deserve to advertise, is called exactly the same as an association of neo-fascist students that existed at the end of the 1980s and during the 1990s in Madrid and which was grouped into the Autonomous Bases platform. Let no one forget where these supposedly invented concepts come from. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u113	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u114	Thank you, President. Nor do I want to start without sending from here, from Madrid, a hug to those millions of young people, women and men who from Chile have opened the great alarms for a free humanity to pass to build a better world. [[Applauds]] With Salvador Allende and Victor Jara in the heart, we greet that people of Chile who have raised the flag of hope, of social and environmental justice, of plurinationality, of a new Constitution and who have made Gabriel Boric the youngest president in the history of their country. [[shows a photo of Salvador Allende]] It seems to me that Chile, which has overcome fear, is the best response to this far right that is trying to get behind us today, under the horrific word of iberosphere, an international reactionary, classist, misogynistic and neo-colonial that does not solve any of the problems that the world has right now. And it is that this international race is, in fact, nothing more than an attempt by our local tropism to resurrect the imaginary, colonial and imperial caspian FranciscoFranco liked so much. Its proposal is not addressed to the Hispanic peoples, the Iberian peoples, the American peoples or the African peoples. His proposal is aimed at a small elite of all these territories, with a very simple aim: to prevent us from getting out of this tremendous emergency situation with moderately redistributive policies. That is the Iberian spherical program that VOX defends and that the People's Party submissively follows: build a transoceanic network, yes, but so that the richest 1% does not pay taxes; build a transoceanic alliance of friends of Panama Papers and Pandora Papers; build an alliance for public services to be privatized, for working people to lose rights and for water, lithium, mineral resources or jungles to be devastated and exploited, if any, by a few multinationals. That is their programme, which is actually a disaster for 99% of the population on that side of the ocean and this side of the ocean. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as Steve Bannon taught them, they must accompany him with lies and must accompany him with hate campaigns, which they seek to confront the poor against the poor, to promote homophobia, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism and to incite violence against social activists, against human rights defenders. Despite all that, I want to tell you that this reactionary international, which is also an attempt to go back five centuries to rehabilitate the old party of the commissions, the inquisitors, the great renters friends of easy money, will not prevail. You've already made a mistake, ladies and gentlemen, and you've already made a mockery in Mexico thinking with neo-colonial arrogance that you could give lessons as a conqueror to a people that in 1910 made one of the most important peasant and indigenous revolutions of the entire century and that came to have a great Zapoteca president as was Benito Juárez. They've done the ridiculous thing now in Chile, trying to resurrect Pinochet and Videla under the figure of Kast, and sending Vargas Llosa there to support him, which is the sure guarantee that no president can win an election in his life. His iberosphere, Your Honor, is left with millions of Americans and Africans and millions of Spaniards, Catalans, Basques, and Galicians who do not want to be part of this project. This was clearly seen by Bartholomew in the Houses when, in fact, he denounced the outbursts of conquest and called for native peoples to be protected in their rights. It was also seen by the lucid liberal generation of Mariana Pineda, of Florez Estrada, of Rafael del Riego, who refused to embark on America to repress the emancipatory movements that existed there. It was also seen by the Republican generation of Pi i Margall, who defended Cuba and Puerto Rico as autonomous states within a federal Spain. He was also seen by Margarita Nelken, Max Aub and León Felipe, who thanked the Mexican Republic of Lazarus Cárdenas not only for having received them after the Franco coup, but also for condemning Nazism and fascism in the League of Nations. The Monarchist Hispanoamericanism that you come to defend here has nothing to do with the generous and respectful iberism of Unamuno and Fernando Pessoa; nor does it have to do with that of the Portuguese José Saramago, who always conceived it as a plurinational and plurilingual space, nor does it have to do with the solidarity internationalism of my admired Pilar del Río, Xose Manuel Beiras or Joan Garcés. That is why this international of hatred, furious neoliberalism and great capital that promotes the far right world, so docile with the powerful and so abusive with the weak, is destined to fail. Yesterday in Chile he could not with women like Fabiola Campillay, who lost his eyes during the repression of 2019, but who never stopped fighting. Nor will it be able against Human Colombia, determined to leave behind the time of death installed by Uribe. And neither will he be able with Brazil, where Bolsonaro will lose and President Lula will return, and with him the memory of Chico Mendes, Marielle Franco and so many more. That America, which we also feel, that America to which you, ladies and gentlemen, have contributed to offending and humiliating, that America will overcome. It will win, it will be beautiful and it will improve the world in which we live. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u116	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by reminding Joaquín Navarro, a survivor of the Atocha massacre, executed by former members of the New Force, a party that knows very well some of the deputies of VOX, of which they were members. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you have no credibility with this proposal. They tell us about the iberosphere, but more than iberosphere they are about the Iberian dictatorship of Salazar and Franco, and they hide behind this proposal to hide their true face, which is none other than that of contempt towards the different, the one who lives different, the one who thinks different, the one who loves different, the one who speaks different, the one whose vision does not conform to that of one, large and free, like that of Franco. But, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are no longer in time for the dictatorships of Salazar in Portugal or Franco in Spain. Remember that in front of the dictators were always the defeated, those who resist, those who did not bend their knees, those who survived by swallowing their past. We won't bend our knees or swallow our past. [[Applauds]] We socialists were defeated by weapons, but we won with democracy. They don't understand Spain. The Spain of the far right is so old and so small that it is only in its head; it is a caspian and enemy Spain of the 1978 democratic Constitution. They live off the mess. The ultra-right wants to generate a conflict with the constitutional languages, because they live on it, because without confusion there are no votes. In Catalonia, we speak in Spanish and Catalan when we feel like it, despite the fanatic who weighs him. [[Applauds]] They sow hatred because they live to generate division among the Spaniards. [[Mrs. Trias Gil makes negative gestures with her hand]] There's nothing more anti-patriot than dividing your nation by languages. Languages are not a danger, they are a wealth. The only real danger for Spain is its lies. They're hypocrites. VOX criticizes the chiringuitos, but their leader has lived their whole lives. They say they want to fight corruption while they support the Punica and Gürtel. They say they're defending women while denying sexist violence. They say they defend the workers while they propose to end their rights. They say they're defending LGBT people while they're trying to repeal laws that protect them from homophobes like you. [[Applauds]] They claim to defend democracy, but refuse to condemn the Franco dictatorship. They claim to defend Spain while trampling on the Spanish languages. You are ashamed of Spain, but while you are ashamed we are proud of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we are the vote and you are the veto. I veto the institutional declaration to condemn the Chueca neo-Nazi march. I veto the institutional declaration against racism. [[Applauds]] I veto the institutional declaration of support for the work of teachers. I veto the institutional declaration of International Day of Ageing. I veto the institutional declaration on the fight against hunger. I veto the institutional declaration on children's rights. I veto the institutional declaration against macho violence. I veto the institutional declaration on the fight against AIDS. I veto any institutional declaration to combat climate change. [[Applauds]] I veto March 8th, no matter what year it is. I veto an institutional declaration in support of health care. I veto the press. You're just gonna need to veto yourselves, and that yes, that's what we'll applaud. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, children in Catalonia pee and carry books, not stones in their backpacks. [[laughs]] Books! But didn't they say they didn't want to be like VOX? [[Applauds]] Soon they'll forget. Do you forget when Married said: Mr.Abascal, isn't it that we are cowards, what happens is that we don't want to be like you? Do you remember? I do. Later, his speeches seem to be written by Ortega Smith or Macarena Olona. [[Rumors.-Protests]] They want to forget about the corruption that accompanies them, but justice does not leave them. They forget that under the mandate of José María Aznar the Congress of Deputies unanimously ratified the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, committing itself to ensuring immersion in all autonomous communities with official languages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u118	The corporal. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you came to the elections saying that you were going to defeat corruption and cacichism, and when corruption and cacichism were defeated in Murcia or Madrid you saved them. Now the PP pays for their services by buying them in Murcia and selling them in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, in front of the far right there is only the unity of the Democrats and the Spanish Constitution. Summaries. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u119	Thank you, Mr Zaragoza. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil, do you accept any of the proposed amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u120	We're preparing a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u122	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress so that the Government can explain the arbitrariness in the allocation of certain items of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, as well as the delay in the actual execution of these European funds. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. A preview. I hope that this will not be institutionalized from going out to this stand desperately to scream when you are not right; Mr Elorza did so and today Mr Zaragoza has done so, who is trying to convince all of Spain that the child of Canet can speak Spanish. [[Applauds]] But, Mr Zaragoza, things are as they are. You've shown something strange here today. For a person with the veteran you have, it's written. You have not listened to Mr Hispan, who opposes the VOX initiative, and puts us on the boil when we have simply not said anything at all. But continue to do merit, which also repeats in the seat, because it is evident that it does not give you for much more. Ladies and gentlemen, we tabled a motion that comes from an inquiry into European funds in which the People's Parliamentary Group questioned the management and accounts of this government, and we had a reprimand and insult from Minister Calviño. It is true that this country will receive 140 billion to get us out of the pit of incompetence in which this government has plunged us with public accounts. There has been COVID throughout Europe, but Spain is the worst economy in Europe. The data do not deceive - I am talking about data, ladies and gentlemen -: Spain is the country with the most deficit, the third largest debt in Europe, the country with the most unemployment, the country where GDP has fallen the most, the country with the worst recovery and the country with the highest inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this government will have something to do with these figures, which are regrettable. [[Applauds]] I listened to Mr. Pisarello. And you know why? Because social communism has not worked anywhere in the world, let alone in Spain, ladies and gentlemen. We have received resources, and many, but we are fundamentally concerned that, as the Council of State warned on 21 December 2020, there is a huge lack of control and opacity. So, what we're asking for is this. First, monthly information is sent to the Finance and Public Service Commission on the information prepared on IGAE on public funds. Secondly, let the minister appear every month to explain how public funds go. Thirdly, when there is any doubt about a specific and determined project, it is the AIReF that audits it, subject to approval by the Commission. We ask for the obvious, which is transparency and information. But in these strange times that have touched us to live, and remembering Bertolt Brecht, we must claim the obvious, because it is evident that we are in a democratic involution with this government, where fundamentally what shines through its absence is transparency. I would like to remind all honourable Members that the motion of censure fundamentally revolves around two issues. One was the issue of corruption. The other was that Pedro Sánchez sent himself to this rostrum saying he was going to be the most transparent government in history. Come on, the most transparent government in history! And he repeated again in this last investiture speech that he was going to make a clear exercise of transparency to combat disaffection and that there was no excuse for not being transparent. Well, I give you data, ladies and gentlemen, because you have again deceived all citizens. There was a committee of experts, and we still don't know who. We haven't seen his reports. We have not seen the reports supporting health contracts, nor have we seen the justification for what has happened. Today, we have learned, ladies and gentlemen, that the audit for equal pay is known to the groups that support the government, and we have been asking for it for three years and have not yet been given to us. Nor do we know the cost of the Falcon or the cost of the President's vacation. We don't know what happened to Delcy. We do not know why Gali came in, which I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, which is a genocidal one, because it is apparently in this rostrum this afternoon to defend rights. We do not know, ladies and gentlemen, what aid or why a company has received to pay the rent of a property that is owned by the president's parents. This is becoming more and more like a banana republic. [[Applauds]] Sánchez has failed to comply 100 times with the transparency resolutions; two are the Rajoy Government. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are concerned that of the 24 billion that were to come this year only 8000 have come, but it has meant a fall in gross GDP; half, ladies and gentlemen. But we don't know what projects; we only know four. Stay with this: 1 million euros for 100 authors to think artistically; 4 million euros to advertise pensions; 100 million euros for trade union seats, with what we have discovered today in Madrid; again a union, the UGT, and employment funds distributed sectarianly. And then, ladies and gentlemen, I miss you that the People's Party is asking for explanations about the funds. Look, what is entrepreneurial is how you are spending the funds and, above all, the lack of transparency. If you really believe that the economic model will be changed with this system, ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem with those who support the Government. Look, we warned in the vote on the decree on European funds, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. We warned you that you were doing this country a weak favor, and you have met the worst expectations, lack of transparency, opacity and bottlenecks, because Moncloa has undertaken to manage absolutely everything. The other day, in this rostrum, President Sánchez wondered whether we could believe that European funds could be spent without control. And I say yes: Plus Ultra, 54 million, and we know absolutely nothing of anything. I'm done, Madam President. Since some of the groups claim so much compliance with the Constitution, I remind them that article 23 speaks of the right to information of political representatives. Let's see if you're going to apply it, ladies and gentlemen, because, believe me, we are very concerned about how you are spending European funds. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u124	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u125	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about budget implementation frequently in the last plenary and in the committees too, because it is really one of the outstanding subjects of this government. Today's motion relates to this, although it relates to European funds. In this connection, I would like to recall that in the budget debate on 25 November I had the opportunity to speak about this and, referring specifically to the territorial policy section, I asked the Minister about the delays in this ministry, in particular with regard to component 11, which was that of the modernization of the public administration, its employment and digitisation. He was urged to convene the sectoral conference urgently, and he did so. Sometimes you want to think that what we say here to the government even has some effect, and in this case I even have the illusion that it did so thanks to that inquiry. But it must also be said that after that conference the ball remains on the roof of the ministry and, although the distributions with the autonomous communities have been clarified, the transfer of funds for the 2021 financial year, which is still pending, remains unfulfilled; the year ends in a few days. That is why the Government must be called upon to coordinate more closely among ministries. Justice, for example, is doing very well, has done many meetings, has paid its funds, in contrast to what I have said about the Ministry of Territorial Policy, that is, that each goes at its own pace. It must be said that Minister Calviño in Europe is doing very well. We are the first European country to receive the first remittances, and that must be applauded. It is also true, and I would like to see colleagues in the groups supporting the Government insist that it has to demand greater coordination between the ministries, to be above them in order to spend it efficiently, because I am very afraid that, if not, we will have to return enough money to the European Union. We must also say that the worst is going to happen to other countries, because we need to know the bureaucracy of many other countries in Europe, which is to start shaking. And that's why I'm not surprised that Spain was the first to receive the first remittances. I mean, we don't have to be defeatists about our management because they cook beans everywhere. And this is a novel procedure; we have managed many European funds, but never these MRR funds. It must also be stressed that the PERTE is not fully defined and that all the autonomous communities are demanding the Government to know the fate of these central government funds. Nor does it mean today that the autonomous communities will not have difficulty spending their own funds on each, because we have already seen the problems that some of the COVID funds have. But, reading the PP motion, the truth is that it gives the impression that it is not going to serve anything nor does it intend to do so. What it seems is that they only want to erode the Government, even incur in its day-to-day manner, because to ask the Minister of Finance to appear every month to report on how the implementation of the budget lines is going, the only thing that entails is that it cannot be devoted or that less is devoted to all the work it has to do. And that doesn't mean that this Congress doesn't have to control the government, because it can control it and it must control it, but I think there are other more efficient mechanisms. And I do not think it is necessary to do so with the intention that it seems to be intended when one reads what is raised in this motion. We disarrange ourselves in this way of making opposition. We prefer to be critical, but we also want to be constructive. Finally, like the other previous speakers, I would also like to congratulate you all. Merry Christmas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u127	Thank you, President. Get out of the way. The truth is to us this motion surprises us a little, because from the Basque Group we have already tabled a motion on transparency, good management and accountability in the Joint Commission with regard to European funds in order to concretely and deepen them; a mechanism of aid, of course, unprecedented, which has a political, social and economic significance and importance that we have all recognized and underlined in order to promote economic transformation and towards sustainability and digitalisation. The Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, on measures for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, provides in its article 22 that the Government shall report quarterly to the Joint Commission on the progress and progress of the recovery plan, which is necessary, although, in our view, lacks precision or concreteness. It is true that the first Vice-President appears in that Commission and, of course, offers an overview of the state of the matter. However, we believe that there are often issues that can remain in the air, as they may be resident in other ministries, and that is why in this motion we request a attendance every two months to report on the areas of relevance of the plan: digitization, green transformation, execution; a attendance that we left open, at the choice of the Government, depending on the subject. The approved motion also requested the Government to forward to the Joint Committee the official information and documents related to the Plan and the Mechanism for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, as it is neither appropriate nor operational for the groups to have to search the web or in information bulletins of the Councils of Ministers. We believe that more accurate and regular information is necessary in order to be able to exercise not only control but also to promote and improve the actions of the Government. And what we are asking for in the motion is nothing more and nothing less than a faithful reflection of what the Community regulation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Mechanism provides for the European Parliament in its political work of control and drive. It cannot be said that the Government is not reporting on the plan, but we believe that many improvement measures can be introduced, and that is what we wanted, because there is a lot at stake and what is at stake is to do it right, to execute those money in a way that would be and effectively and, ultimately, to ensure the proper use of the funds. And that also goes through transparency and control measures, not with the simple spirit of monitoring and controlling to make noise, but to improve, and always from a constructive perspective to ensure the proper use of these funds, which is where you can move from, from construction. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we have not just understood the introduction of a new motion which partly requests what has already been approved in the motion tabled by this group in the Joint Committee, which also had its vote in favour, since it meant doubling that control and appearances unnecessarily. Nor do we believe that a procedure is in place to ensure that, at the request of any group that has doubts as to the suitability of an award or investment, the Finance Committee puts to the vote the commission of an independent assessment to the AIReF, because these doubts often do not follow objective criteria, but rather subjective ones, or, in other words, they do not follow technical criteria already best carries an additional workload, which in many cases we believe unnecessary by obeying more subjective than technical criteria. For my group, transparency, access to public information and standards of good governance must, of course, be at the heart of any political action, and that has already been reflected in the motion adopted in the Joint Committee which we hope the Government will take up, and we will not support this new motion today, which is in the same direction as that adopted in the Joint Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u129	Thank you, President. Again we speak from this rostrum of European funds: the opportunity of our life, our life-savings as a country, the opportunity of the next generations that has become a real headache for many because it is not reaching the beneficiaries, because it is stuck in a bureaucratic mess, because it lacks objective criteria for their distribution and also transparency. We are talking about that EUR 140 billion will be put on the table, and we have already heard some previous spokesman say that beans are cooked in all the houses and that, if you don't know how to do it right, nothing happens. It has been very difficult to approve this aid package, Mr Mazón. We know what we are talking about, because the role of European liberals was fundamental and key in the negotiations. These 140 billion are in the hands of a government that is addicted to political spending and discretion and which, to the best of it, does not like parliamentary control or transparency in this regard. Of course this initiative is relevant, as was our amendment to the entire Royal Decree-Law 36/2020. We have great doubts that the government will use and use all the money well. Who assures us that the case of Plus Ultra or another PlanE such as Zapatero will not be repeated? We, my group and I, personally, have already been made clear yesterday after listening to the first Vice-President, Mrs Calviño, that asking this government for explanations and transparency about the management of European funds is an offence for this government and an example of anti-patriotism. But to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it must also be clear to you that the Liberals take the Next Generation funds very seriously and that we will continue to demand accountability and structural reforms that our country has been facing for forty years, forty years in which neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party, even with governments of absolute majority, have been able to do so. I have lost track of the times we have proposed to follow the model of other countries, a model in which it is an independent agency, led by a well-known personality or committee, that studies the strengths and weaknesses of our economy and proposes appropriate strategic projects, publishes projects and conditions for access to funding, receives applications and evaluates according to the technical subjective criteria, provides technical and logistical support to small and medium-sized enterprises in order to be able to participate in those applications and to monitor and evaluate the investments and results achieved. All these times the Government has voted against, and some of these times even VOX, incomprehensiblely, has joined the Government. Get out of your offices, walk down the street, go into bars and shops, talk to the autonomous communities, talk to the municipalities, listen to authorized voices, which are also outside the government, even if it is hard for you to believe it. The aid already approved is not reaching its beneficiaries and what you sell as structural reforms is just patches to cover the file, such as your pension reform to solve or address the problem of the sustainability of the system. It is a real mistake, ladies and gentlemen, that in Spain there are good ideas for digitisation, sustainability and economic growth and that, having money from European funds to be able to develop them, you give them up out of frustration or keep them, sleeping the dream of the righteous. Do you know what the general impression is about European funds and their management? The empire of arbitrariness and political opportunism. We will support this initiative for the duty of democratic regeneration that we carry in our DNA and because we will not allow Sánchez to make the most expensive election campaign in history while companies break and pay the bill for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u131	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. They know that in our group and myself on more than one occasion we have shown concern about the ability of the efficient implementation of the Next Generation funds, just as we have had the opportunity to talk about other European funds on other occasions. And it is true that the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, which regulates the implementation of these funds, was approved thanks to the vote of VOX and that my group did not support it, although it did ask for its parliamentary processing. And it is true that, after almost a year, the parliamentary process of this royal decree-law, which is where some control measures should be implemented, has not yet begun. Having said that, the truth is that the People's Party's policy of constant hyperbole, exaggeration and characterization of some of the problems leads nowhere. If you take in detail the motion formulated as a result of questioning, sincerely, do you believe that what you are proposing is operative? Do you think it leads somewhere that all the reports of the IGAE are sent to the members of the Commission, that this work is done monthly, that the Minister of Finance will come and report on these reports? This doesn't lead to anything. It serves them to make a political arena here and try to convey what they are not doing. But, even if this was a serious proposal with the House's backing, the People's Party is currently having a problem, because it is already possible for its Members to try to make initiatives that are serious and rigorous and that, while its leader, its president, is constantly doing press briefings in which he lies, cheats and lacks the truth, the People's Party will never be an alternative to government. What they are doing with Catalonia and with the language is absolutely entrepreneurship, as entrepreneurship was what they did with the Statue. But you'll know how profitable it is. It gives them a profitability in order to scratch five, six, seven deputies to VOX, but it does not give them the profitability of being credible, of being a credible alternative in the whole Spanish state, of course in Catalonia and also in Europe. If you worry about what Europe thinks and how it executes the funds, if you come here and see what the opposition is doing in relation to the funds run and do not stop until you are in Sevastopol. Really, the situation is almost comical. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing the session, Christmas is coming and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all of you, to wish you a happy Christmas and a prosperous new year, a new year in which we leave behind some of the challenges. And if I may, I would like to wish, for us - I would use a plural majestic - that the Magi Kings - and for those who do not believe in the Magi Kings, Santa Claus, although I am more of the Magi Kings - to bring us all a lot of serenity, a lot of tranquility, a lot of patience, a lot of empathy, a lot of understanding with the rest of our comrades in this House, even though we are political opponents, a lot of dialogue capacity, a lot of agreement capacity, because the citizens will thank us. [[applause]] Try it, because, you know what's best? That we're all going to be much happier. Thank you so much. Merry Christmas! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. Mr. CAPDEVILA I ESTEVE: Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It is difficult to overcome Mr Bel's requests. I'll join them and I'll try and get the guy in my house to bring him to us. With Christmas around the corner, it seems that the People's Party... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u134	...the spirit of Christmas has not been infected with an apex. Rather, we have seen the ghost of Christmas spent in the light of the tone of the motion, where - I will be allowed - two editors are intuited: a Tertullian in argumentation and a connoisseur of the parliamentary role of control of the Government in the proposal. What are you asking for? More transparency in the implementation of European funds. How? For example, information needed to monitor the implementation of the funds should be transmitted to the Courts. It would be fine if it were not redundant, as Mrs Sagastizabal has already pointed out. I am not revealing the Coca-Cola formula if I tell you that we are far from sharing the current management of the European recovery funds that the Spanish Government is exercising and every time we have had the opportunity to ask the Minister and Vice-President about this issue we have made it quite clear. In fact, it smiles, in general, how the PSOE of the Government mistreats and manipulates the separation of powers and how the PSOE of these Courts, with the complicity of United Podemos, breaks into such a ugliness. And that's not the way it is. We say no because memory supports us, because we believe that genuinely decentralized management is the best guarantee to achieve the change of productive model, because we believe that if management is carried out from the territory itself, which is the one that knows its own characteristics, the return of these millions of euros can be more efficient. And don't tell me what's missing if, for example, what we want is to leave behind once and for all a polluting, expensive and inefficient energy model. You see what a revolutionary idea subsidiarity is. We say no because, gentlemen of the PP, you invoke a transparency and a subjection to control that you never exercised when you ruled. Therefore, if we do not vote in favour of his motion, it is not precisely because we endorse the Spanish Government's management of the European funds. We are not voting in favour of his motion because we do not believe a millimeter in the formula proposed to us by the People's Party, because we do not believe that the People's Party of Gürtel is a guarantor of anything, and less so in matters of transparency. And that's why he proposes a frankly inoperative mechanism. Furthermore, if I may, because we do not share this language between the Tabernary and Tertullian that you use for the justification of your motion with finesse that you will stick a trip with all paid. You must miss a lot of finezza for a separatist red to warn you. And that is how they discredit any political initiative, because, while we might share in part the objective, we certainly do not share the forms. Thank you very much. Good Nadal. Zorionak. Bo Nadal. Cheers to you and your families. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I had prepared a speech on the debate that took place last week between Mrs Rodríguez and the Minister, Mrs Calviño, who, moreover, seemed to me to be the most rescuer of what we are facing. I say this because, frankly, the quality of the motion that has been tabled today by the PP is far from reaching the approved one, in terms of institute; it seems to me to be of poor quality, as has already been said by some other speakers. I thought that Mr Suárez's speech could give a bit of brilliance to that dark, opaque text, but, Mr Suárez, you are trying to oppose everything and, in the end, I do not know what you were talking about, because you have spoken a little bit about European funds. So, given this perspective and this panorama, let me argue on the basis of last week's debate, which, as I say, had some girl, some jundia. At the time, Mrs Rodríguez based her argument mainly on two pillars: on the one hand, on the alleged incompetence and lack of implementation of the plans committed on behalf of the European funds and, on the other, on the alleged lack of mechanisms to control the government over them. On the first, it must certainly be a matter of concern on the part of the whole House that a mediocre implementation of these funds could not only compromise the future of our country and the necessary structural reforms that are pending, but would be a real loser for future generations. On the other hand, we have always been aware of the complexity of efficiently channelling an unknown volume of resources to date in record time and from a State whose management and allocation mechanisms have been seriously undermined by the previous Government. Of course, from here we enter into a dynamic to determine the degree of implementation of these resources. Last week Mrs Rodríguez spoke of 33.5% and Minister Calviño responded with 73% of the budget authorised and 65% committed. Finally, I would say that this referendum does not make much sense until the final execution is verified on 31 December. But it is also a pity, if I may say so, that the ultimate objective pursued is above all qualitative, namely the transformation of the country's productive matrix towards digitisation and in a more respectful direction with social rights and the environment, although the lack of implementation could be a determining factor for the failure of the approved plans. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the point is that there is no such failure, unless in the eyes of the European Union. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, reminded them well a few days ago that on 3 December the President of the Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, transmitted a positive preliminary assessment of the Spanish plans. Perhaps it is because Spain obtained the highest rating in ten of the eleven variables assessed and covered by the regulation or perhaps it was another reason, but the case is that no one in Europe shares a diagnosis of Spain as pessimistic as yours, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, and it will not be because you have not tried; indeed, some lobby in Brussels to spread this kind of ideas seems to have done so. Mrs Rodríguez's second line of argument had to do with an alleged lack of transparency mechanisms. He even hinted that such opacity would have been used to favor those autonomous governments closest to the central executive. And, even more, he said that he would also have facilitated the adoption of an ideological agenda. On the subject of educational investment, she then proclaimed Mrs. Rodríguez that the Government operates with officials or nothing. Wow, so ideological is his counterproposal: either with my friends stuck to the State's boob or nothing, just that this, besides ideological, is indecent. On the other hand, the minister reminded him that for the moment it is Andalusia, followed by Catalonia and Madrid, which accumulates a greater volume of these resources, and it seems that this completely discredits the accusations of favoritism. Finally, a description is given of the most appropriate picture of a banana republic than of a Member State of the European Union, Mr Suárez. It is true that we are close to a republic, but it will not deny me that it is you who put the bananas, because you really don't have the ordinary mechanisms that our institutions are equipped with, and you also despise the mechanisms of distribution and control that are put in place ad hoc for the Resilience Mechanism. It seems that dozens of sectoral conferences, regular meetings with social partners have never existed. Finally, the Vice-President's quarterly appearances before the Joint Commission for the European Union would be the result of some delirium; a delirium, by the way, very recent, because I would swear that yesterday the Vice-President went to these places to attend to these ends. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us conclude that everything in life is better, also the implementation and control of European funds. Now, from there to the dystopic fantasy you describe opens an ocean. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From the motion that brings us to debate the People's Parliamentary Group we want to draw what is really important, which are the doubts that arise about European funds in two respects: the arbitrariness and discretion in the allocation of certain items of the Recovery Mechanism and the delay in the actual execution of funds. With regard to the first, if the Government wished to clear up this incognito, it would simply have to respond to the truth, be transparent and clear to the questions that we Members have raised from the right given to us by Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. And it is that, for the best performance of our parliamentary functions, Members will have the power to collect from the public administrations the data, reports or documents that they have in their possession. The reality is that, to the hundreds and hundreds of questions or requests for reports that we make to the Government in relation to tenders or awards financed by the Recovery Mechanism and that have not been published on the relevant web site, the Government does not respond simply and simply that it has no obligation to publish it on the web; and this is a real fact. However, the members of the Government in their appearances - such as, for example, Mrs Calviño - are saying that there is already a web page enabled for the purpose in which all tenders will be published, not only from the State, but also from the autonomous communities, and are lying. In view of this obscurantism, both in the design of the plan and in the information that hides us, imagine our astonishment, knowing also that a few days ago we have known that the European Commission has decided to initiate an infringement procedure against Spain in relation to the conformity of our national legislation with the European Union rules on public procurement. What we are aware of, for example, is a contract to integrate the gender cross-cutting of EUR 2.5 million - while SMEs are bleeding out - or an internal and institutional outreach and communication campaign of the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security, of the staggering sum of EUR 3.5 million, which, moreover, is not explained to which component or reform this tender corresponds or is published, as I have already told you, on the website of the Recovery Plan. With regard to the implementation of the funds, yesterday, Vice-President Calviño, in the Joint Committee on Relations with the European Union, brought us a pamphlet of fiction policy full of propaganda of what they are going to do, of the momentum the funds will remain to the economy, but we are in December and, according to the General Intervention of the State Administration, the money that has arrived in the real economy is the same as it had arrived in August. According to that report of the IGAE, the State would have executed until the end of August 4902 million euros, around 20% of the budgeted expenditure as final credit. However, virtually all of this expenditure, as stated in that report, is transferred to agencies of the General Administration of the State and to autonomous communities to carry out its execution directly or, in turn, transfer it to other administrations. And only 104 million had been registered that have reached their specific and concrete end. Well, look, the IGAE, in the September and October reports, doesn't bring anything new about that amount. Why? Because there is nothing new to include; that is, there is no more finalist spending executed. That is the reality and the Government does not want to admit the evolution of its failure. [[Applauds]] According to an estimate by Funcas, Spain has calls for only 21% of the recovery funds and among SMEs this conviction has been established that the aid is not for them. Only 14% of SMEs say they believe that they access these European funds because of problems such as bureaucracy, lack of capacity to co-finance projects or operational difficulties. The reality for SMEs is that they have been taxed and marginalized from receiving direct aid. SMEs, which make up 99% of our business fabric. Therefore, if this is not a SME and autonomous plan, it can never be called a recovery plan for the Spanish economy. Faced with the difficulty of presenting large transformative projects in a short time to execute all this European money, small plans of faster preparation have emerged, but worryingly similar to those of the failed Plan E of Zapatero of 2009. Where is the 2% promised GDP growth by 2021 associated with the implementation of recovery funds? He's neither expected nor expected. Where are those more than 800,000 new jobs associated with the implementation of recovery funds? They meant 800 or 1000. Of course, the reality, what we do have, is inflation above 5%, unemployment at 15%, debt above 120% of GDP, the bill of light rising, announced mobilizations from all sectors of the economy, supply problems in the supply chain and contagions, such as taxes, rising. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services. For the Socialist Group, Mr Taibo Monelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today you have not been particularly fortunate with this motion, precisely on the day we just learned that the Economic and Financial Committee of the Union The European Union has just released another EUR 10 billion for Spain. [[Applauds]] Something good will be done by the Government of Spain when it was four weeks old and it has dictated it in just eighteen days! It was not enough for them to speak ill of Spain in Europe so that we would not receive a euro from the European funds. They didn't settle for it. They asked for cuts from the working classes and spoke badly of our entrepreneurs and self-employed, accusing them of being bought by the Government of Spain. What a shame! Look, we have told you times and times - both this Member who speaks to you and each of my colleagues in the Socialist bench - to return to centrality, to work to solve the lives of the Spaniards, but you are still settled in the radicality to which Mr Casado has led you in that competition for the space of the ultra-right and, if it were not very little, you continue to disturb the atmosphere of this House and are more concerned to remove a health adviser and call elections in the middle of a sixth wave, becoming, moreover, comrades of the V.O., who will be your original version, to which your voters will come, increasingly far away from you. I, in fact, am not going to ask you again for a sense of state. At least, while Mr. Casado remains installed in his radicality and accounting for the calculator instead of thinking about Spain and the Spanish. It's M. Rajoy's 'worst, best'. Precisely because of their desire for the economy not to be positive they bring us these kinds of motions. You know that the European funds granted to Spain through the Mechanism for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience are our Marshall Plan, which will enable us to push for necessary reforms in our strategic sectors. They bring us a motion full of falsehoods in which they speak of arbitrariness in the distribution of European funds. But do you think the Spaniards are fools? The Spanish know perfectly well that this is a responsible government, which is designing a new model under the criteria established by the European Union. In Regulation 2021/241, agreed with the European Commission and evaluated, Spain obtained the highest rating in ten of the eleven variables. They omit that, of course. Since then, the various public bodies under the General Administration of the State, autonomous communities and municipalities have been publishing competitions and grants under the Public Sector Contracts Act and the General Grants Act, and public-private partnerships have been established under the Public Sector Legal Regime Act. Indeed, the selection of projects is carried out on the basis of technical criteria set out in the calls and it is the recruitment tables and the technical and administrative committees that complete and carry out the selection of those projects to be financed. Already the Royal Decree 36/2020 is aimed at ensuring effective control, through audit, of the funds. The recovery commission is established; the technical committee; the monitoring unit; the responsible authority, which is assigned to the General Secretariat of Funds of the Ministry of Finance, and the supervisory authority of the mechanism, which falls under the General Intervention of the State. On the other hand, comprehensive control of the information system has also been put in place to prevent fraud, corruption, conflict of interest and double funding. I understand that perhaps the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party are somewhat reticent about these issues of double funding and the fight against corruption. Finally, there are also quarterly appearances on the progress and progress of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, I am not going to ask you to regain moderation and centrality or to stop being radicals who are trying to blow up all the good that this Government is bringing, but know that this is a country that wants to progress, that wants to improve. So at least refrain from putting sticks on the wheels, assume that we are facing the most important challenges that Spain is overcoming - and already at cruising speed - and that we have to continue building Spain with these European funds, working for a new greener production system and to reduce inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are moving forward with European funds and with government action, even if you do not stop going back. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Taibo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the agreement to deal directly and in one reading with the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. Firstly, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u143	Thank you, President. The truth is that we did not intend to intervene because the debate on the bill is going to take place on Thursday in this House and because we understand that the handling of this agreement does not give rise to any doubt, although it seems that this is not the case because of the number of speeches that have been requested on this point. Until 2017 this procedure was voted by assent, there was no debate because there was no doubt about the procedure by the parliamentary groups. A procedure that is very clear, direct and read-only, because the very essence of the forality - the pact - requires that there be an agreement between governments and that agreement that is voted on, a bilateral and agreed agreement that the Courts can only ratify or'return but that cannot be unilaterally amended or modified. A procedure that is being followed in this House for the adoption of international treaties as well. The procedure envisaged is therefore the correct one and the only legally possible one in this area. Its processing is in accordance with the Law on Economic Concert, the Constitution and the judgements of the Constitutional Court 76/1988, 208/2012 and 179/1989. A Constitutional Court which has ratified the thesis according to which the justification for the application of the single reading procedure lies in the negotiated and agreed nature of the texts processed under this procedural variant. The pacified character is, in terms of the constitutional doctrine, the identifiable core of the institution. If this pacified content does not exist, the forality that protects and respects the first additional provision of the Constitution disappears; a unique reading procedure that is firmly legally established in the constitutional reality and leaves no room for discussion. I believe that there will be groups that today are opposed to this unique reading procedure envisaged for the modification of the concert. In fact, the amendment registered by Citizens does so. They are contrary to this unique reading procedure when both the Rules of Congress and the various laws not only allow but also establish it. Therefore, I would like to ask you a question: if you would tell me, when week after week you go up to this rostrum to demand compliance with the laws, the Constitution, the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, what should be done? Because the truth is, it's not clear to me. What must be done? What depends on compliance with a law? What are their convictions, their conditions, the geographical scope in question, the political opportunity they have at a given time? That is why we tell them that they list those laws and sentences that must be complied with and which ones must not, more than anything, make it clear to us to political groups and also to society. Because with these manifestations all I know you do or say is that the laws are to be enforced, but only when it suits you, standing up as judges of good and evil. You reached an agreement with the People's Party to attend the Basque elections in which you pledged to defend the Basque Economic Concert. What's left of all this? Because the truth is that they have a very peculiar way of defending the concert, recording an amendment to the whole and with continuous criticism of the system. Defending the concert also involves defending the processing procedure. We're told the deal is opaque. It's so opaque, they just have to read it, because it's in the project annex. Maybe they haven't read it or they don't understand it or, what's worse, they don't want to understand it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u145	Thank you, President. I'm speaking from the seat. We, as the president has asked, are going to focus on the form, but in this case the form is as important as the background. The PNV deputy asked me: What laws have to be enforced? And I have to tell you that they all have to be fulfilled. What laws can you talk about, Mrs PNV? Can we talk about the Basque quota law or can we not talk about it because you've already talked about it between you and that's it? Can't we talk, it has to be done by one reading because you say it and the others can't say anything and we have to shut up? It is a real shame what the PSOE and also the People's Party want to do, when they have always agreed in the single reading to approve the Basque quota law, to process without debate and in three minutes the law regulating the taxes given, in this case by Sánchez, to the Basque Nationalist Party. A measure which affects not only the citizens of the Basque Country, but also the forty-seven million Spaniards - whom I understand you give absolutely the same - and the Members of this House, who we represent all those forty-seven million, including the Basques, are being robbed of the debate in Parliament. They also say that this is an emergency procedure provided for in the regulation, but what urgency does it mean? To the urgency that Mr Sánchez has with the PNV, because to agree on autonomous financing has been years and they have not made any progress at all. They also refer to the Rules of Procedure and the simplicity required to approve the single reading procedure, but the Basque quota has everything you want less simplicity and an absolutely indescribable method of calculation, which comes from a gift from the PP and the PSOE to the Basque Nationalist Party, which we would like to be able to discuss with the rest of the Members. And the worst is that argument that, besides, this has always been done this way, which is the favorite argument of bipartisanism. I guess like the pacts to divide the judges or the defendants don't resign, because it's always been that way. Count, if you will, on the People's Party to whitewash this outrage, but not on Citizens. We will continue to say this very clearly, because this is a gift to the nationalists at the cost of forty-seven million Spaniards, and what we want is, at least, to be able to say it and discuss it in this House, something you certainly do not want, precisely because it is quite dark, opaque and shameful. The People's Party and the Socialist Party have always been and will be the crutches of nationalism, and every day they make it clearer with procedures like this so that the rest of us can't discuss what interests and affects forty-seven million Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u147	From the seat, I just want to say that, as it cannot be otherwise, we agree with the one-reading direct processing.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u148	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are now discussing an agreement to deal directly and in one reading with the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Basque Autonomous Community. As the lords of the PNV muttered well, here we do not talk about the quota, we talk about the concert; it is true, but they also lie on other issues. You say that this has to be done by direct and one-reading agreement, but it is not; it can be done, but it can not be done, and the proof is that today we are voting if popular sovereignty, that is, the Spanish people, wants or does not want this modification of the Economic Concert to be done by one-reading. Then they do not lie, nor false, nor speak false truths, for they are not. It is important that the Spanish understand what is being discussed here, because it is a law that modifies the Basque Economic Concert. What is Economic Concert? The Economic Concert is a financial regime that has the three Basque provinces and that basically assumes that they collect practically all taxes and then an account is made - quite opaque, by the way; say what they say, it is quite opaque - that it is calculated how much these three provinces have to pay to the State, to Spain, for all the services that the rest of Spain provides in these three provinces. The concert is basically that. The reality is that the concert is a political weapon. It is a mixed commission between the Basque administration - not among the Basque taxpayers - that for all purposes is the PNV, because they have been ruling there all their life, and in a dark and opaque agreement they conclude how much money the three provinces have to pay to the rest of Spain for those taxes they collect and even charge, sometimes; this is absolutely opaque. [[applause]] And that it is done in a single reading, so that all Spaniards understand it, assumes that this law cannot be amended, which in turn modifies the concert. Therefore, they claim to have popular sovereignty manipulated, and that is what the People's Party, which has always done, and the Socialist Party, which has always done. [[Applauds]] And it's curious why they collaborate with the PNV. Why? Obviously, because the PNV is the key to approving budgets. So much so, that right now the processing of the budgets is going to return to Congress, that is, they have not yet been approved, among other things, by a stick that has put on the wheel the Basque Nationalist Party, which is not going to withdraw, obviously, until this new version of the Basque quota is approved. In short, let's vote no. We want to debate and we want light where you want darkness. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Figaredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u151	Good night, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are primarily for all the Spaniards who are suffering today, not only for our colleagues who cannot take the seats today, but for all the Spaniards who minute by minute are falling as a result of this bloody pandemic that is beating us all. Therefore, we all owe ourselves as public representatives that we are. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr Bel has made that boonist plea to dialogue and empathy, which is so good for you. I also invite you and I will invoke the joy of dialogue, of dialogue with the Constitution, of dialogue with legality, of compliance with the legal norms, of the return to political centrality, of the return to the constituent foundations of this country, of the return to bury definitively the dynamics of winners and losers; to that I also invite you, that is the best dialogue that this country can have, and not to that hollow and absolutely abstruse goodism that leads only to this permanent confrontation between each other. That's what I invite, that's what I call them, that's what he encouraged, and we'll see if they're able to get to him or not. Obviously, the People's Party will vote in favour of the procedure; of course it will vote in favour. And he will vote in favour for many reasons: because the concert is part of the constitutional root; because it is part of the peace spirit, because it is part of the spirit of the pact; because, by the way, it was a conservative, Cánovas del Castillo, who approved in a Council of Ministers presided over by him the first concert with the Basque Country, however much the official historiography of Basque nationalism has wanted to systematically hide it. As it was a liberal minister in 1910 who tried to repeal, but it was - and I say to the liberals - a father of the Constitution, who was liberal, who permanently defended the concert as well. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] And as there was also a finance minister, Indalecio Prieto, at the time of the Republic, who also defended the concert. So, that is a dialogue with history, it is a dialogue with our traditions, but we also don't have to forget that the Basque Nationalist Party didn't like the concert in 1930; they remember, right? Only the outlawist parties wanted it, not the Basque Nationalist Party, because I thought it was a chuletite that came in... [[Rumors]] Yes sir, yes, yes; we will have time on Thursday to explain the historical roots of how the Basque Nationalist Party behaved. Or that famous phrase from Garaicoechea to President Suárez in 1980: If you want to come to the Basque Country, it comes with concerts, and otherwise, it does not come. They remember, don't they? We will remember on Thursday the statements that were made at the time of Garaicoechea and Arzallus... What a time! What a time when the concert was used as an element of permanent extortion of the turn government. But of course we'll be there. Now, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, I beg your pardon, and on Thursday we will speak for God and for the old law really what you think of the concert. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services of the House. For the Socialist Group, Mr Senderos Oraá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u153	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be a very brief speech. Economic Concert is a unique system that regulates tax and financial relations between the State and the Basque Country, based on a commitment of loyalty between the two parties. This is very important in this matter and in the general tax structure of the State. Therefore, if in Spain as a whole our tax system has been modified - changes in value added tax, introduction of financial transaction tax and digital services tax - the conclusion is that the impact of these changes on the Economic Concert must be taken into account; nothing more and nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. This is unamendable, some changes are not adapted yes and others are not, and all the modifications that have taken place in recent times should be transferred to the concert. That's why it's a one-time reading process. Why? Because either we agree on what is and means the economic concert or it is against; without further ado, ladies and gentlemen. And that will, by the way, be the debate we will have on Thursday, not today. That is why the Socialist Group will support the agreement to deal directly with this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Oraá Trails. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the deadline for the issue of the vote by the telematics procedure concerning the consideration of proposals for legislation and the direct and read-only agreement, proceed to state the outcome of the votes. First, it takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic amendment to the Criminal Code on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 250; against, 95; abstentions, 1. Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the Agency for Force and Security Corps Returns, AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1986 OF 13 MARCH. [[File number 122/00151]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u156	Takes into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is an organizational body responsible for the salaries of the Security Forces and Bodies, as amended by Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March. Votes cast, 345; in favour, 155; against, 190. Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-21-CD211221.u157	This is followed by a direct and read-only agreement on the draft law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Votes cast, 346; in favour, 284; against, 61; abstentions, 1. Accordingly, direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the above-mentioned bill is agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
