ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate on taking into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I ask you for a little silence to start the first debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u2	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I remember as if it was yesterday that day when he rioted me in the Basque Country, the day I stood on the wall and said I wasn't leaving. June 2017. I had been serving as a lawyer for the Chief State for four years, I sent an email to whom we were then our General State Counsel - who, of course, I am holding for good - and explained to him the serious damage that my march would cause as a result of the serious cases of corruption that I had personally promoted and investigated and that in some cases, by the way, they were going to be prosecuted within a matter of days. The next thing I got was a call from Madrid. I wasn't the state attorney general, but I did get a call from him, and the message was very clear: staying is not an option. I had ten days to go out and what I did in those ten days, I confess, was to judicialize all I could at that time, because if something shows me the experience is that politicians especially struggle to back off with illegal orders when matters are already judicialized. [[Applauds]] By the way, you do not know how sorry I am that Mr Aitor Esteban is not here during the sitting, because I assure you that among the many cases that I have tried in those ten days is an appeal of more than one centolius, which later ended with a conviction to high-ranking officials of the Basque Nationalist Party for one of the serious cases of corruption affecting a plant of purines in Carranza. I have to tell you that I cried months later, when I was already in Madrid, I received the call to inform me that this remedy had been estimated, because at that time the state had won despite the state. I remember as if it was yesterday that I arrived at my new destination in Madrid, a public society of the State that only two months before had been registered by the UCO, by our glorious Civil Guard, and ceased all its previous leadership as a result of the judicial investigation in the National Court of serious facts related to the payment of bites abroad in exchange for the award of public contracts, by the way, during the last fifteen years, in the period 2000 to 2017. I remember as if yesterday was the first day on which, as secretary general of the aforementioned public society, I was the one who received the UCO in that new entry and registration that they were going to undertake by mandate of the National Audience and how I received it in front of a staff of almost a hundred workers: welcome to your home, these are your computers, in which we can help you. If the General Secretariat referred in these terms to the UCO, I can assure you that the entire staff had made it very clear that the new directive had a strong commitment to the fight against corruption. And go if we had it and go if we were firm, because of a writing per month addressed to the National Audience, where I realized the progress of the internal investigations that I was carrying out; advance that I came to qualify as an authentic film of terror: interrogations to employees, analysis of the emails, trip to Panama to requisition the computers and bring them to the National Audience... We're up to the last carpet. I remember as if it were yesterday, December 26, 2017, the day that Manuel, Mercasa's civil guard and security officer, called me to inform me that they had entered the company's headquarters in the middle of Christmas, bursting to the last security measure - and I assure you that we had them very firm and very strong - from the official headquarters of a public society of the state, all mocked. When we discovered that what the assailants had taken was precisely my personal computer, I assured them that I had made it very clear that the course of my investigations was going very well if we had been able to get so nervous if it wasn't for the ones investigated, for the next defendants. What I did the next day was to provide the National Court with a copy of the complaint I filed with the National Police, informing the defendants that the information they were looking for was neither in my office nor in my private home, in case they intended to come to my house later. Coming from the north, I assured them that I had the security measures very internalized and that the information, as demonstrated, was well received; by the way, also in front of SEPI. I remember as if it was yesterday the day that Mercasa's new president, in October 2018, called me to his office to inform me that he was proceeding to my fulminant cease-fire; a cease-fire without any logic, as if it were not to avoid my statement before the National Audience, which was pointed out only forty-eight hours later. They brought two state lawyers and a notary to the board of directors' meeting, where I had to formally agree to leave, more than six hours of the session. And they didn't, because I was suspended as secretary general of the public company, but she appeared before the National High Court. If there was evidence of the usefulness and relevance of my statement, it is because I have been declaring the outcome of my internal investigation for a month on intermittent days in front of fifteen lawyers. Despite his empty attempts to silence my voice, we managed that the objective reality that we had investigated over the past fifteen months pop up where it had to pop up, which was before the National Audience. I could tell you how in a trial in the Basque Country I ended up with tax agents locating a key witness they were keeping hidden in Mount Igueldo and how I went to the various homes where I had news that he could be hidden, shielded in hand, to the voice of'state lawyer, open the door' until I met him and we got that he appeared to testify in a very serious case of corruption that affected high offices of the Vasco Nationalist Party. I could tell you about the calvary he had to go to the D.A. to report the cost overrun in a state port. I could tell it to you and I could tell it to you my colleague Edmundo Bal, because I remember, as if it were yesterday, all these cases that I have told you, and I can assure you that if I bring it written, it is because I measure my words very much and because the most valuable thing is the silence that he kept. I remember as if yesterday it was the grave loneliness I felt in every one of the battles I undertook to fight corruption; loneliness only appeased by brave, particular voices, Edmundo, who in some case dared to try to fight for truth and decency to prevail. But I can assure you that if I was faster, if I was more resilient, if I achieved my goals, despite an extraordinary personal, professional and family cost, it is because I was just lucky. There is no merit on my part, because when you confront the intelligence services of Angola, a former President of the Government, a high office of Telefónica, all you aspire to is that the blow you receive is not at a vital point. And I'm here, so I can only say that, luckily, I didn't get the blows in point vital and, believe me, when I talk about surviving I'm referring to the literal term of the word. Today I have the honour to raise my voice, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, to defend and present to you a proposal for a law that I must confess is very special to me, not only because I have drafted it, but because it closes a circle. I could not do more than what I did in those other cases of corruption whistleblowers on whose side I was, to the extent of my possibilities; I could not do more in the defense of the public era, but when Santiago Abascal, our president, allowed me the privilege of being part of this family it was because, precisely, all those cases that I have told you and that, I repeat, the most interesting thing I keep for myself, had been published in the media and if VOX precisely looked at me it was because of that trajectory in the fight against corruption. Santiago Abascal was consistent with this firm desire that the fight against corruption be VOX DNA at the time when it allowed me to draw up and register this bill that took place, listen to me well, ladies and gentlemen, in June 2019; that is, in the XIII Legislature. It is a law that provides a comprehensive statute for the protection of whistleblowers of corruption, including their protection as sources of media information, because it is essential to preserve their important role in investigative work. It is a law that keeps them free from any kind of reprisal that can be followed in the family or professional order, also personal. It is a law that gives an independent body, to the model that has been followed in the Valencian law of 2018, that I will confess to you that it has been my reference to elaborate this law and whose director at the head I have to put in value for the extraordinary work that it is doing in the field of the fight against corruption. And it is a law that takes a step further because it not only has a full statute of protection that includes a sanctioning regime by the director-general of the independent agency, which includes the imposition of sanctions of up to €400,000 for those who commit any kind of reprisal against the complainants of corruption, but, to a greater extent, includes a prize of 10% of the amount actually collected for those who fulfil their civic obligation, with their civic duty to fight corruption, making complaints. And if in itself the defense of this law would already be of interest - and I hope that your ladies have read it carefully so that they do not vote with biased information - are no less interesting and topical the six final provisions that we include in June 2018 - I conclude, Madam President - where we reform the Law of 1870 of pardons to, precisely, prohibit pardons in cases as serious as the crimes of sedition and rebellion. Today a coup d'état has been carried out in Spain from the very institutions of the State. VOX fights and will fight to preserve our rule of law. We have done it, we do it and we will do it, and the only thing we can assure the Spaniards is that VOX fulfills his word. Thank you, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hope, Mrs Choclán, that your loneliness, your sacrifice and your affection will be transformed by taking into account this proposal for a law on the comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption, which I will support with my vote. [[Applauds]] This represents a magnificent opportunity to equip Spain with measures against the greatest of the scourges of our democratic system - which, moreover, has direct effects on society and the well-being of citizens - which weakens credit and citizen confidence in the institutions and their public representatives. Your contained emotion, your testimony, Mrs Olona, acknowledge the need to establish a comprehensive framework for the protection of whistleblowers of corruption through the regulatory recognition of their rights and the correlative obligation of public administrations to ensure their effectiveness. It is also essential to create an independent authority for the protection of whistleblowers of corruption, which is a guarantee of full compensation for all those who, in fulfilment of a civic duty, can be guaranteed the effectiveness of their rights. And it is necessary and timely, rather than opportunistic, its final provisions to reform the Law of 1870, of rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon, in order not to proceed its total or partial concession in certain criminal cases against Spain, its constitutional order and its institutions; that is, exactly the opposite of what has just been perpetrated this very morning, black, very black, the Council of Ministers in one of the most regrettable decisions in the recent history of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law on VOX also covers a major legislative vacuum. In this regard, it should be recalled that, on the initiative of Citizens, this House adopted four years and four months ago, during the XII Legislature, an initiative which generally proposed a similar direction to the one we are debating. In fact, it was then approved with very high support of favorable votes, but its processing expired two years later with the dissolution of the Chambers in February 2019, sending to the archive and the oblivion the parliamentary work that was being reported within the Constitutional Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, in support of this initiative, I reiterate the arguments with which I supported that other initiative, because the fight against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers continues to specify the legislative tools set out in this text, since Spain, unlike most of the Member States of the European Union, lacks specific and up-to-date legislation to provide guarantees of protection to the whistleblower of corruption that include safeguarding his privacy, anonymity and privacy, as well as his physical integrity, his legal defence and, ultimately, all the necessary measures to develop and extend through a national rule the protection of witnesses. I consider it relevant and peremptory to have a comprehensive law such as that proposed here, because Spain needs to incorporate into its legislative framework its international commitments, signed within the framework of the United Nations Convention, of which our country is also a signatory, with the provision of effective protection measures, by providing them with an independent authority in public integrity, which is ultimately a recommendation of the Council of Europe that is fulfilling its obligations without Spain having devoted itself to this indispensable figure in the fight against corruption. We are faced with a subject which, unfortunately and throughout this twenty-first century, is, together with unemployment, one of the main and constant concerns of the Spaniards, which has been reflected in the different programmes of the political parties and their ethical codes. However, we have been unable to make legislative progress, and hence the absolute relevance of this bill. In fact, this XIV Legislature began with the debate of investiture and in the course of it the candidate Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon committed in his speech to this House the adoption of a comprehensive law against corruption and a status of the complainant that reinforces this essential figure to combat this scourge so intolerable to society. That commitment by now President Sánchez, clearly reflected in the Diario de Sesiones on 4 January 2020, remains unfulfilled year and a half after, without it appearing that in Moncloa they have much interest in activating it despite the fact that Spain has a great deal to make progress in this area. This shows that the fight against corruption and the protection of the complainant has been relegated to government action and a year and a half after the start of the mandate remains excluded from the legislative process. Of this exclusion, Vice-President Calvo and the Minister of Justice, Mr Campo, already pointed out ways that in their respective appearances before the Constitutional Commission and the Justice Commission they avoided talking about the matter. Then came the pandemic and so we continue, in the legislative drought of a government that has beaten historical records in the elaboration of real decree-laws that remove the main role of the General Courts, but that has not found time to legislate against corruption, although in the last GRECO report, published just a few months ago, of the Group of States against Corruption, dependent on the Council of Europe, the compliance of Spain with anti-corruption standards is considered unsatisfactory. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the convenience of this proposed law of VOX, which would also make it impossible for pardons in favour of recalcitrant secessionism, because the drama for Spain is that the current government has conditioned its political action in the support that allowed in 2020 the investiture of its president. Today the priorities of this maniatado executive pass by to remain in power without much noticing that separatist, independent, unconstitutional and anti-system forces mark the agenda of Pedro Sánchez, as it has seen this morning in the Council of Ministers with the granting of pardons to the heads of the territorial disintegration of Spain, despite the demolition reports of the Supreme; reports and convictions issued by the Supreme. And I can predict that, as will be seen at the end of this session, when this bill is voted on, precisely because it is signed by an opposition group and despite the fact that it also affects the fight against corruption, it will be repudiated. In short, I shall vote in favour. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u6	Thank you very much, President. The VOX Parliamentary Group is presenting a proposal for a law that we will not support for reasons, to a large extent, similar to those that led us not to support a year ago another initiative of Citizens which is fed by what we are now discussing, which we consider certainly not a good start, even because of the criticism that is socially linked to plagiarism. That initiative was rejected by a large part of the Chamber of Opportunists, which must also be so. It capitalizes on agreed initiatives to debate within certain subcommittees and anticipates conclusions; this is not the first time VOX has done so. We also continue to believe that the beginning of the legislative process of a matter on which the transposition of a Union directive is based should not be by means of a proposal for a law, but through the initiative of the Government, of a draft law. Otherwise it means depriving this House of the administrative file, the pre-legislator, the consultations, the public information, the reports - in particular, the Fiscal Council, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State - and the options chosen and their motivation. These are options that give rise to the same Directive 2019/1937 by establishing common minimum standards that can be developed and extended by the States Parties of the Union for the prevention and discovery of infringements of Union law. And whether it is protected with equal or different scope and with the same procedures and standards of protection for complainants of protection against domestic law as is done under Union law. These are issues that need to be raised and justified, in addition to seeking opinions and reports from both legality and opportunity, something that the proposed law does not do, nor does it even distinguish in which area of internal law or of the Union we move when this is required. In any event, it fails to comply with the Directive as regards the transposition of its scope or purpose when it excludes as a possible cause of infringement of Union law to the private sector and, in addition, requires that there must always be damage to the public sector, which is not essential for the Directive if its material scope, Article 2 and Annexes are to be observed. On the other hand, VOX's initiative, by making an opportunistic and exaggerated use of the concept of corruption, degrades it to such an extent that if everything is corruption, nothing will be achieved. It cannot be said that it is corruption any violation of administrative or criminal law that may result in harm to the public sector and only when it occurs in the public sector. This is simply a mishap. The directive is much more objective and is aimed at discovering and preventing infringements of Union law in certain material areas through the establishment of a system of complaint and protection of complainants against reprisals, thus protecting and protecting the welfare of society without fireworks, without hyperboles to the problem and without excluding anyone, public or private. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out aspects for which it is advisable to wait for the draft law being prepared by the Government to transpose the above directive, which expires before 17 December and 17 December 2023 for the private sector between 50 and 249 workers. We know that the Codification Commission has been entrusted with this task and will have to analyse and motivate many other alternatives or options, among others, whether it is reasonable to exempt in any circumstances the use of internal channels in the first instance of private sector employees or whether there will be a complaint system or several depending on the law breached or what the external channels of complaint should be, given that the directive provides as possible for the judicial authority, for regulatory and supervisory bodies in specific areas, for bodies with more general powers to comply with the rule of law, for public defenders, etc. Also as an option, which entities are exempted from having internal channels or if a generic status of the complainant is established or specific laws are reformed or how the powers of administrative authorities and the judiciary are articulated under the obligations contained in articles 259 and 264 of the Criminal Procedure Act with regard to acts intended to be criminal offences. Ladies and gentlemen, these are open questions that advise the consideration of the pre-legislator and that discourage the consideration of the VOX initiative, an unfavourable criterion that is reinforced in our opinion by the content of the final clauses, authentic Pisuerga clauses, as our colleague Alonso-Cuevillas used to call them. We do not share the recovery of articles of the Criminal Code to penalize the convening and participation in non-binding democratic consultations to test public opinion on matters of public interest or to amend an article of the Criminal Procedure Act recently amended by this House, nor do we share the amendment of the General Organic Penitentiary Act to break the territorial principle of the enforcement of sentences with a straphalic, anti-democratic wording and contrary to the non-activist spirit of the Constitution and the purpose of the sentences, nor do we share the amendment of the Pardon Act so that those convicted of certain offences may not apply the pardon, which we do not share, since the pardon does not take as a reference, except for constitutional exceptions, neither the unlawful commission nor the lawful conviction but the realization in the convicted person, if the Government considers it so, of the principle of material justice, equity or concrete manifestation of the general interest. Finished. Ladies and gentlemen, all the reasons put forward lead us not to support the initiative and this without entering into competition issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u8	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today is June 22, 2021. Today the government has pardoned some convicted thugs, but not on my behalf, never on my behalf! [[Applauds]] We are here to see the proposed law on VOX, which deals with two interesting issues: on the one hand, the protection of the whistleblower or whistleblower and, on the other hand, the issue of pardons, precisely, a topic of great topicality. The truths that I am curious today to know what the speeches of the United Podemos and the Socialist Party are going to be, because obviously they will not agree to reform the pardons that allow them to remain seated in those seats and Mr Sánchez to remain in power by pardoning dangerous criminals who are in jail, but I also do not know whether they care about the protection of the complainant. I imagine that at this point neither the Socialist Party nor the United We can care a bit about the protection of the complainant, less the United We can, with those criminal troubles he has with his own complainants. Indeed, the complainant must be protected. Macarena - I am not going to call you Mrs. Olona - has told many of those adventures in which we have both been involved, fighting corruption, she as a lawyer of the state and I as head of the penal department, curiously, in the end the two ceases. The truth is that one has to endure many things when dealing with the powerful. We have quoted with this of pardons many times the hemeroteca, but today thanks to the hemeroteca, of the Journal of Sessions of Congress - the truth is that it is curious - we can use the words of a socialist here to defend the bill that presents VOX or to defend the one that will then be presented by the People's Party. The Socialist Party said in the XII Legislature that it will not grant full or partial pardon for crimes committed by an authority in the exercise of its public function or office. Junqueras, Romeva... at last, all those who have been pardoned today. [[Applauds]] This was said by the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party said: I would like to point out that corruption and gender-based violence call for screams to be excluded from such a measure of grace. The proposed reform is a manifestation and expression of what we say so many times of zero tolerance against corruption and gender-based violence. Avoiding pardon from convicted persons is a manifestation of that total rejection that inspires such behavior. The time has come to veto its possibility in those assumptions that generate real revulsion in our citizenship. [[Applauds]] Mr Campo, Minister of Justice, in this House. Mr. Campo! Mr. Tardà supported this option of restricting pardons from the Republican Left of Catalonia. Boy, how do you change your mind when it suits you! Today Mr Campo tells us that pardons must be considered naturally; he practically tells us that denying them is an attack on the rule of law. But of course, deny those of the powerful, those of the imprisoned politicians; those of the people of the street, those who tell you your fellow lawyer of a gentleman who is in prison for drug trafficking and who never give him parole or probation, those not, those who remain in prison. There's always been classes, gentlemen. For the pardons there are the poor and then there are the powerful. It must be said, Macarena, that this proposal is a magnificent work. It adapts to perfection - what Mr Legarda is going to do, of course, which also supports the Government, rather than removing the defects - the European Union directive establishes an integral framework for the protection of whistleblowers, establishes internal and external channels of complaint, establishes guarantees, establishes the creation of an independent authority for the protection of whistleblowers, establishes the possible application to private companies of more than fifty workers or who are in danger of being involved in money laundering, because whistleblowers deserve it, because, as the statement of reasons for this proposed law says, they are heroes, because they are people who face the powerful, because they are people who are having a very bad time. I saw him in Gürtel, which was started precisely by the denunciation of a brave person who is now in prison and who is called Peñas. It is a moral obligation to protect whistleblowers, yes, it is a moral obligation, because they make our democracy stronger, because they do the right thing, because they should keep us all behind protecting themselves. There are two things about this law that I don't like - we will of course vote in favour of its consideration -. One of them is the 10% prize for the complainant. I believe that that heroism, that care for the general interests is in conflict with the fact that you can receive a prize for your denunciation. I believe that, as the text of the law says, the complainant's absolute, financial and moral compensation should be guaranteed with the compensation that may be provided, but not the prize. I am concerned that this country will become a country of police, a country of balcony police, a country in which the old profession of bounty hunters will be rehabilitated. Secondly, I miss a more detailed regulation of the complainant's protection, with the obligation of confidentiality that lawyers and other professions have in our relations with the client, but, of course, it seems to me to be a good law. I do not accept arguments such as Mr. Legarda's just made, arguments that say that this law necessarily has to come from the hand of a government bill. So what are the parliamentary groups here for with our bill proposals initiative when the government does not present its bills, when the government does not earn the salary, when it comes to telling us that it has prepared the bill and we do not yet know it and we do not know anything about it? [[applause]] They are not even sitting here, they do not even come to hear the proposals of law from the rest of the parliamentary groups. A real shame. When the Government does not work, the others have to fill the shortcomings of the Government and work and present these proposals for legislation, because they deserve it from the complainants. We understand that, according also to the very project that Citizens presented and to which the spokesman of Foro Asturias has kindly referred - there is a full coincidence with the postulates that on this matter Citizens - the number of crimes that are exempt from pardon is short; we will expand it. Finally, and I finish, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u9	Yes, Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u10	... I would really ask you Socialists to have a little dignity and not to swallow this from the pardons. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u12	Thank you very much, President. I am a little perplexed, Mrs Olona, but I am glad; I am glad that your source of inspiration is the Valencian law, made by a Counsellor of Compromís. Anyway, I'm glad. Maybe we're not so bad, maybe what you say about us one day and another doesn't feel sorry for your source of inspiration being a law that has made Compromise. Anyway, it's fine. It is our Law 11/2016, of 28 November, of the Agency for the Prevention and Fight against Fraud and Corruption in the Valencian Community, made primarily to fight against the corruption of its partners, of its only partners - because they do not have others, its partner is always the PP; they are needed -, made basically to combat this corruption. Fifteen deputies from Compromís, More Country and Esquerra Republicana registered on December 11, 2019, at the initiative of the Xnet platform, our bill for the comprehensive protection of alerters, to transpose this Directive 2019/1937 for the protection of persons reporting violations of European Union law. Frankly, I say this to the Government and to the parties of the Government: it is a shame that VOX has to come to take their colors out on a fundamental issue like this. I'd be a little ashamed of myself, on this subject and on others. Frankly, I would have liked this Government to have been more diligent in this area and in many others where we are going more slowly. In any case, since Compromís, I would like to say to you that, although there are things we can agree on, we will wait for the bill that the Government will present and we will make our amendments, which I am sure we will have to do, because we do not share those extravagances, those animals that are said with regard to pardons and popular consultations. Evidently, there we are in the antipodes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u14	Thank you, President. Mrs Olona, the truth is that you have spent much of your time exposing some of your activities as a State lawyer in your professional career - I tell you honestly - that respect, respect and consideration. We cannot say the same about his political career, with which we absolutely disagree. What they present here today is a bill, with a title - comprehensive protection for the complainant of corruption - and a statement of reasons that does not even lie about the final provisions that are substantial. In your speech, you have devoted thirty seconds to one of the final provisions, but we will review them. Second provision: amendment of the law on pardons. You have said here that because today the Government has approved the pardons a coup d'état has been perpetrated. Mrs. Olona, you're a state attorney. A coup d'état is when a gentleman comes up here with a gun and starts shooting. [[Rumors]] That's a coup d'état. That's what they did with the coup d'état. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yeah, yeah, and they were quiet. I don't know if I was preparing opposition or a state attorney, but they were quiet. Second final provision that you amend: amendment of the General Prison Law. With names and surnames. Hey, with names and surnames. Those who have a crime of terrorism, of sedition, of rebellion shall not be held in prison by the autonomous community where their political formation or their associates have parliamentary representation. This, taken to the extreme, is: some political party with parliamentary representation in all the autonomous communities has a condemned one of these characteristics and you send him to serve the sentence to the prisons of Turkey, which are his democratic partners, as was observed yesterday in the Council of Europe. Third final provision that you amend: modification of the Lecrim, of Article 324, article that we recently modified in this House at the initiative of my colleague Jaume AlonsoCuevillas - from here I send you an affectionate reminder and I say to you: calm, Jaume, because this, fortunately, will not prosper - taking a step back without marking any kind of limitation or any kind of deadline in the investigation of judicial proceedings. This is also in line with what most democratic and developed countries have in Europe and the rest of the world. The fifth final provision, which you propose, is the amendment of the Penal Code to incorporate in it not only the holding of a referendum but also the mere consultations that may be made by some mayors or some other public authorities. I'm not telling you to call a general election anymore, imagine. Therefore, if they are so substantial, if these final provisions are so important, why not explain them in the explanatory statement? They are amending four fundamental laws as if nothing happened and then hiding it under the framework simply of the comprehensive protection of the complainant of corruption. No, no; this legislative initiative is not about this, it is about the four aspects that we have explained to you. So, obviously, they're going to count on our vote against. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u16	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, talking about fighting corruption is something that the Republican Parliamentary Group likes very much, but that the extreme neo-rancist right brings us today a proposal for a comprehensive protection law for corruption whistleblowers really seems surreal. We will obviously vote no to that bill for various reasons, starting with the plagiarism of the previous Citizens' initiative, which we also vote no to. There are too many loopholes; it has already been said here by the people who have preceded me. There are also traps in the protection of alerting persons: it leaves many unprotected; it does not consider retaliation lawsuits; it forces alerters, ill-called whistleblowers, to cross paths to protect themselves, and it does not cover only what the mandatory transposition directive calls for. In short, they want to leave unprotected citizens who uncover systemic abuses of corruption, including the private sector, as has also been said here. I have an idea why this is done by the extreme neo-ranquist right. At best, he does so in order to like the tax agency in Andalusia, which attributed to his former leader and former autonomous deputy in Andalusia the condition of cause in the concealment and transmission of the liquid assets of the company he headed. They also, perhaps, do so in order to create an honest account following the complaint made to them by the Civic Alliance before the Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Auditors for illegal financing and which collected possible evidence from former members of the ultra-right-wing formation. They want to win the PP in terms of corruption. Keep it up, you guys, you're on the right track. Where there is extreme right there is fascism, there is corruption, as in the Franco era. For example, the extreme Austrian right sprinkled with corruption; Le Pen's party in France created a fraudulent system to divert European funds. According to an official investigation, Bolsonaro, the neo-Nazi facha, is being investigated in Brazil, and not only him, but his children and the entire system of purser trapping; he will go to Bolsonaro prison. Here in Spain racist haters, sexists and Franco lovers are the same, they do the same and they come here today with a proposal to legitimize themselves, to create an aura of honesty. Having said all this, I have to say that we owe a lot, a lot to the struggle of civil society organized by the mandatory transposition of the European directive to protect alerters from abuse by the factual powers. We highlight - comrade Baldoví just did - the immense work of the Xnet Platform, which managed to elaborate the first version of the transposition in Europe. It was the first bill to be registered here between More Country, Compromís, BNG and Esquerra Republicana in 2019. We agree with the concern of the Xnet platform that a biased interpretation of the directive would not only transform its transposition into a mojadisimo paper into Spanish law, but could also lead to an even worse situation for whistleblowers of corruption and abuse, so our 2019 bill incorporated the more rigorous experiences of other countries. On the other hand, it also adapts the elements of the European directive, deepening the aspects that depend on its national transposition. It must therefore serve as a reference for maintaining the highest degree of protection for all people who want or have to face the asymmetry of power and for the common good. The protection of whistleblowers must, of course, have its own law, but not this one that is being debated this afternoon, because it is a skilful operation to deactivate the directive and continue to leave reprisals to those who dare to bring out the abuses. The deadline for transposition of the directive is this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, please, what a shame, as Mr Baldoví has just said: what a shame. We demand, from the Republican Group, haste, and, please, that we collect all the proposed part of our 2019 law proposal, from Xnet, to make a most secure transposition possible, to flee from what presents the extreme neo-ranquist right. Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, to fascism, to the extreme right-wing neo-ranquist, no water! They want us in the gutters, they want us drowned in the sea, they want us trapped in the CIEs, they want us inside the closet, they want us deported, they want us obedient, squeaky, quiet. We'll vote no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor. [[Rumors.-Mrs.Carvalho Dantas, on the stairs, next to Mrs.Olona Choclán's seat: I say it up again so everyone can hear it: I'm sick of it! I can't take this anymore. I'm gonna record everything this extreme right tells me.]] Quiet, please. Mrs Carvalho, you do not have the floor. Please take your seat. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas, on the stairs, next to Mrs. Olona Choclán's seat: I will not accept it, Madam President! They've done it with Serigne Mbaye, but they won't do it with me here. I don't accept this! Fascist!-Applause.- Mrs Olona Choclán asks for the floor.- Rumors.-Protests.- Mrs Olona Choclán again asks for the floor.]] Mr. Honrubia. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, my support and solidarity with my partner, Maria Dantas, for any kind of xenophobic, racist insults I have received from the usual. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the second time that one of the members of the Trio de Colón has brought to our attention a proposal for a law which seeks to deal with the transposition of Directive 2019/1937, and this is the second time that it is done wrongly, incompletely and with a much less ambitious content than what it proposes as the minimum content of that directive. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal for a law you address a number of issues that affect the contents that are specific to the competences or legislative frameworks corresponding to the areas of action of different ministries - Finance, Territorial Policy and Public Service, Internal Affairs, Labour, Justice, etc. - and in all cases you do so in large technical and legal shortcomings, even in some of them with content of doubtful constitutional character. Some of the issues, as Mr Legarda and Mrs Dantas have already said, have to do with the definition and purpose of the concept of corruption and have to do with how you face protection against reprisals by the plaintiffs. We wanted to add some more that have not yet been mentioned. For example, Mrs Olona's famous 10% prize for applicants in her speech is a remnant of a Francoist law, of the General Tax Act 1963, which was repealed in 1986 precisely because it proved ineffective and impossible to comply. For example, you, with some of the approaches you make, usurp functions that are legally and constitutionally the responsibility of the prosecutor's office when you suggest that the independent authority for the protection of the plaintiff can be personified as a particular charge in the cases. And, of course, the issue that I think is most serious is that in the famous final provisions, without cutting a hair and crazy, you intend to amend organic laws, the Penal Code or the General Penitentiary Law, by means of a draft ordinary law. Final provisions, of course, as has also been said here, in which you try to take advantage of an issue as serious as the protection of applicants for corruption in order to collate a number of issues which have nothing to do with the purpose of the proposed rule and which do have to do with, and much to do with, your phobias and obsessions with what has happened politically in recent years in Catalonia, demonstrating the real importance you attach to what is supposed to be the main object of your proposals, that is, none. On the other hand, we are also not surprised that in the fight against corruption and specifically in the defence and protection of whistleblowers from cases of corruption, you do not have the slightest credibility. The first is clearly demonstrated by the convenience you have with the most corrupt party in Europe, whose headquarters are no longer known if they have it in Genoa or Sicily. The second is further demonstrated by the treatment that you have given to Mr Rubén Sánchez, a complainant of the case that has affected Mr Serrano, who has already been mentioned here, who was his candidate in Andalusia. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not denounce or pursue cases of corruption by the People's Party and do not hesitate to support it where it is possible for you to do so to maintain it by the governments, especially where the cases of corruption you have had have been more serious and more aberrant, for example in the Madrid Community. In return - that's why he was talking about the convenience relationship - the PP serves you to normalize, to whiten in your speeches and in your practices of hatred, racists, homophobes, xenophobes, sexists and misogynists. Your Honor, don't fool anyone. You have existed as a political party since 2013. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u20	Since then, there have been numerous corruption scandals in the People's Party. You, who are so given to characterise yourself as a popular accusation in certain causes, how many causes of corruption are you in the People's Party? Have you been identified as a particular charge in the Kitchen case, as you announced you were studying to do? Well, that's it. Not to mention the treatment you give to the corruption scandals of the monarchy. Have you ever denounced the corruption of the monarchy? Have you ever persecuted the Emeritus King and asked him to be judged by his countless corruption scandals? Well, that's it. However, since this is serious, the treatment you have given Mr. Rubén Sánchez seems to us to be far more serious. Since it seems that the thing is going to tell personal stories I'm going to tell you the story of a corruption whistleblower in a case that directly affected his party. Already in 2017, just because this person dared to suggest that perhaps it was necessary to investigate his funding as a party, you - in words of which she is now his deputy for Seville, Reyes Romero - threatened to have him guarded, with which it implies a threat that comes from a party like his. - To me, personally, I'd be very afraid. And these attacks have multiplied since Mr. Sánchez filed the complaint that gave rise to the investigation against Mr. Serrano. You know, investigated and prosecuted for falsifying data from a company to collect more than 2 million euros in grants; moreover, he then used that money for other purposes other than those to which the grant was intended, and still today does not return the money illegally collected, despite the requirements made by the Treasury. Since then, since this person denounced this case, you have launched all kinds of hoaxes and insinuations about alleged irregularities in the management of public subsidies against Ruben and Facula, which have proved to be totally unfounded, in a typical case, absolutely typical, of threats and reprisals against a plaintiff of corruption: thief, mobster, member of a band of stalkers, evil beast, subsidized ignorant, etc., etc. These are some of the many comments that different members of his party have made about Rubén Sánchez since then, in a campaign that lasts until today and that has posed a real harassment against the affected and against the consumer organization to which he belongs. So, finally, ladies and gentlemen. This government is committed to transposing the directive; it is in the coalition agreement, it has been said by the Minister of Justice in the Commission, etc., and we will do so in time and form. We will do so, among other things, so that no one else will have to suffer the campaign of harassment, threats and reprisals that Mr Rubén Sánchez has suffered for daring to denounce them in his cases of corruption. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u22	Thank you, Madam President. After what I have heard I will tell you two things that the People's Party is not going to do today, and less being the day it is. The first is to scream and the second is to insult. [[Applauds]] I will allow myself to begin my speech by giving him a hug on behalf of all the Members of the Group of the People's Party to Angel, a member of the IPU, who has been forced to retire for forty-five years because of the stone he received in his head on 1 October. A hug, Angel. [[Applauds]] I say this because there are two objectives with these types of initiatives, and I thank Mrs Olona for having fulfilled the first of them, which is as simple as transposing a Community directive, such as protecting the complainant from corruption, as in the end, combating corruption. There is a second objective that others, notably Mr Honrubia, have tried to achieve, which is to use only part of corruption politically. - Mr. Echenique just left, by the way, in case you haven't seen him. Look, today we are talking about transposing a Community directive - another Community directive - which the government, just a few months after the deadline, has been unable to transpose. They will tell us later, of course - I suppose as always when we talk about these issues with a Member of the Socialist Party of Andalusia - that the government is on it, but the reality is that the government is not on it yet. And I say that it is not yet because in October of last year, in October of 2020, it was the Socialist Party itself that registered a non-legislative proposal in the Commission to ask its government to do what we are saying today that they have to do, that the Community directive has been transposed; a Community directive that ultimately tells us to fight in another way to protect whistleblowers of corruption. I wanted to tell you, Mrs Olona, that there are different points that do not finish convincing us, despite which, as I have already said, we agree with the initiative. I assume that Mr Honrubia will not agree with the part which concerns the false complaint; neither Mr Honrubia nor Mrs Castañón, of course, were the ones who denounced Mr Calvente for harassment, among others, although I will talk about that later. Obviously, it seems to us very appropriate that the false complaint is a serious infringement of the proposal, but we are concerned and we find it questionable, at least, Mrs Olona, about the regulation of the anonymous complaint. We are very concerned, and citizens have also said so in this regard. We are even more concerned about the economic autonomy and financial and functional autonomy of the Independent Authority. I'm telling you this because we saw it with the AIReF. Her president complains, every time she attends this Congress of Deputies, that she has no financial autonomy, that she is being drowned. It will agree with me that if the Independent Authority is going to depend on the Minister of Justice, seeing what Mr Sánchez himself has done with the State Attorney General's Office, we will end up seeing either of the ministers, Marlaska himself, at the head of the Independent Authority, as president or president of the Independent Authority. And this is something that, I'm sure you'll share, we're worried about. We are concerned about the eligibility requirements of the Presidency of the Independent Authority and we are concerned about the functions. I will give you an example of why we are concerned about functions. We are very concerned that the functions of this independent authority are mixed up, interfering with those of the judiciary, something many have mentioned, Mr Baldoví among others. But he has forgotten to say that the Valencian Anti-Fraud Agency has been called to order for interfering in a judicial investigation, casually of a corrupt cartel that affects the president of the Valencian Generalitat, Mr Ximo Puig - now says nothing -. We are therefore very concerned about the functions of these bodies and, above all, what may interfere with the judiciary. I say this from the point of view of the facts, because the Valencian Agency has been mentioned, but what has not been mentioned is what happened here in the X Legislature, what a People's Party Government did when it passed the Transparency and Good Government Act, approving the High Office Act and approving the Law on the Control of the Financing of Political Parties. In short, they want it or not, acting like no government in the history of Spanish democracy against corruption. And I'm going to tell you more, I came from where I came from, something that, of course, you can't all say. [[Applauds]] Mr Honrubia, I suppose you all know that in this Congress of Deputies there is the Committee of Democratic Quality which is studying, among other things, the protection of the complainant of corruption. And the People's Party has asked Mr Calvente and Mrs Carmona to appear, denouncers of the biggest corruption case - by the way, the UDEF has just accused Podemos of justifying Nerona's work with duplicate passports and illegal workers; they don't cut a hair -. The People's Group has asked Mr Calvente to appear here, and you know what Mr Honrubia and the PSOE said, by the way? No, they vetoed it. Therefore, do you really want to protect the complainant from corruption, Mr. Honrubia? Really, gentlemen of Podemos, do you want to fight all corruption? Because the facts do not support them, precisely as much as you sit right now. That's not true. The People's Group wanted the largest whistleblower of the largest case of corruption in Podemos in the history of its party to appear in the courts and you vetoed it. Do you know what the People's Party says when some group, which shouts a lot, by the way, asked Mr. Rat to appear here? We didn't say anything, because we're willing to bring anyone in. Instead, you, when it comes to the corruption of your party, systematically veto it. Of course they veto it - by the way, incurring false complaints, as has been shown - exactly the same as they are doing with Minister Díaz's false masters. Just like they're doing with Minister Diaz's fake masters. [[Applauds]] Look, of course we will support the initiative, of course we will support all initiatives, come from wherever they come from, fight corruption and protect whistleblowers from corruption with all legal guarantees, but we will do so without double standards of measurement, without that according to which some only see corruption when it's from the political adversary, but deny and hide corruption when it's their own. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u23	Thank you, Mr. Navarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ramón Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u24	Thank you, President. This proposal for a law, as contained in her explanatory statement - although after hearing Mrs Olona's autobiographical account I have some doubt - in theory aims at the enactment of a law transposing and failing to comply with Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament, on the protection of whistleblowers of corruption. The first thing I want to highlight is that this Government is strongly committed to the fight against corruption. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] I do not have to remember - it was those laughs - the motion of censure that led against corruption, succeeding in bringing together different political groups to form a new government away from the climate of corruption that was splattering the government of the People's Party. I'm blushing to hear about corruption this afternoon here. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.]] I want to recall some more recent examples. In our electoral programme for the 2019 elections we envisaged that the government would adopt a plan on democratic regeneration including a comprehensive law on the fight against corruption. The agreement reached between the PSOE and the United Nations We can form a progressive coalition government envisages this commitment. And the President of the Government of Spain himself, in his investiture debate, also picked up these commitments. There are also a number of parliamentary precedents, and I would like to highlight, among other things, the non-legislative proposal of my group, adopted on 20 October last, calling on the Government to initiate the processing of a law transposing this directive on the establishment of a system of protection for whistleblowers and whistleblowers in cases of corruption and fraud, through a process of participation and deliberation. As stated in the Minister of Justice's own appearance on 19 May, work was under way on this subject and he also made specific mention that the deadline is due by the end of this year. With regard to the analysis of the proposal, I would like to point out some aspects. It devotes, its second title, 22 articles, to the creation and regulation of the independent authority for the protection of whistleblowers of corruption. I would like to point out that the above-mentioned UN resolution does not, in fact, establish an obligation to create this body, but rather to ensure the existence of a body or bodies, as appropriate, responsible for preventing corruption. The second final provision provides for the amendment of the Act of 18 June 1870 for the exercise of pardon, in order to establish the obligation to give reasons for granting pardons and to exclude certain offences from granting pardons. - Then it will focus on this issue. Third, the fourth final provision amends the Criminal Prosecution Act. And Fourthly, the content of the fifth final provision, which amends the Criminal Code approved by organic law - I insist, organic law - is of particular relevance, to introduce the criminalization of the illegal call for elections or'referendum. This is not a literal transposition of the directive, but rather a rather innovative adaptation and may pose problems in providing insufficient regulation in relation to the framework established by European Union legislation. For example, it sets out an area of protection for whistleblowers exclusively of corruption and the directive, as you well know, concerns the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. As you know, the Government is currently in the process of drafting the preliminary draft law transposing this directive on the protection of persons reporting on infringements of Union law. It should be noted that the public consultation, carried out within the framework of the work of the transposition, ended on 27 January. My group is going to vote against this bill, and it is going to do so for a number of reasons. Firstly, because, as I have pointed out, the Government is already well advanced in its work, but also because from my group we believe that this initiative has not been taken seriously by the proposing group itself. The true intention of the VOX Parliamentary Group is not to protect the complainant, but to regulate pardons and the situation of prisoners and to reform the Criminal Code in respect of referendums in a law that is not organic, which, as you well know, is not possible, and is therefore inadmissible from a constitutional perspective. All these matters that raise nothing have to do with the complainant's protection. It's an excuse. You have wanted to take advantage of this bill to talk about the subject of the week, which is pardons, which indicates that it is rather a political initiative without any legal system. This rule is not intended to reform the Pardons Act, which, as you know, has its own nature and requires autonomous parliamentary processing. The true meaning of his initiative, as he said, is that they wanted to talk about pardons. Well, in part I thank you, because you give me the opportunity to take the opportunity to congratulate the Government of Spain, especially its President Pedro Sánchez, on the approval today of the pardons to those condemned by the process; A government that does not get wrinkled by more populism that you generate and by more stories of terror that you tell us; a government that puts Spain's interests above all, that puts the future of our country ahead of the past, that puts concord, dialogue, in short, politics with capitals to open way to reconciliation, to recover normality, coexistence in this country, because confrontation has not served to solve any problem. [[Applauds]] That's to love Spain. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ramon. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, amending the Law of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of the gratitude of the individual. [[File number 122/000088]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u26	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending the Act of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of pardon. Mr Rojas García has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. With all due respect, Madam President. From the People's Party we ask in this motion for a law that the condemned for sedition and rebellion cannot be pardoned, as President Pedro Sánchez has just done by pardoning those who have been convicted by the Supreme Court for committing a crime of sedition in one of the acts of greatest vileness that are remembered in the history of a president of the Government of our country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of this House, this proposal for a law is more effective than ever, because, as we say in this House, it is essential to respond quickly to the majority demand of the Spanish people, since we are living in an unusual situation which is generating an unprecedented social alarm. Using this legal figure of the right of grace as a currency of exchange for partisan political purposes, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, should shame them. He should be ashamed because he subverts the very nature of the grace of pardon, is an attack on the basic pillars of democracy, such as the separation of powers and respect for the law, and breaks the rules of play of the coexistence of Spanish society. It's a damage that will cost us work to restore, but we will, ladies and gentlemen. And the People's Group will certainly do so, remember that. As our President, Pablo Casado, has already announced today, we will demand the legitimacy of the Supreme Court to appeal these infamous pardons. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, as much as President Sánchez wants, he is not going to turn off the light of those who defend the rule of law or put a gag on those we trust and believe in the separation of powers. The People's Party will work tirelessly to ensure that justice is respected. The President of the Government yesterday asked for pardon and pardon today. Thinking of the constitutional spirit of concord - he adds -, forgetting, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that without law there can be no concord, only the announced recidivism will come. Without the law, ladies and gentlemen, there's the jungle. And in the jungle there is no state, just anarchy. Sánchez's act yesterday in Liceu was a pathetic monologue - if I may say so - was a testimony of the demolition of his own principles, now annihilated by a vital need for him to remain in power, to continue to ascend the Falcon and live in the Moncloa. You've forgotten that ethical and moral principles are worth a lot more than that, ladies and gentlemen. He chose President Sánchez to lose the honor and stay on the boat and soon he will see no honor and no boat to sail on, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday the president alluded to the heart for forgiveness to convicted criminals, but they allude to a kind of supralegal status, an almost divine status, unknown, anointed by someone, and say and presume that they will break the law again. They believe they are anointed by some demiurgical being, divine, lords, more than the rest of mortals and with higher rights than others. Like dictators, ladies and gentlemen! As in dictatorships, ladies and gentlemen! That's what President Sanchez is forgiving today! This is, in short, a humiliation by the Government to the secessionists. The use of the right of grace on which the law is to be broken again is a guarantee of problems for the future and, to be clear, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is a subsidy for a second process. And the culprit of all this, when it happens, will be President Sanchez. That'll be the name of the culprit, there's no other. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Pedro Sánchez, as President of the Government, you will agree with me that his path was very easy: the application of the law. First, respect the Supreme Court's resolutions and the separation of powers; secondly, implement and ensure those resolutions; thirdly, be a president who will never sacrifice his word and his principles in the face of the invectives of a rupturist operation, in the face of the challenge, in the face of threats. And he had an obligation to ensure compliance with the law. It has not fulfilled any of these premises and, however much it wants to come to dress the pardons as reversible or partial, the damage that Sánchez has done to Spain is no longer partial or reversible. Ladies and gentlemen, as we said before, yesterday at Barcelona High School, Mr Sánchez, who was remembered there yesterday by the secessionists who will do it again, starred a monologue to demolish his own principles. Let me tell you this is especially serious. And it is because, from our point of view, it breaks the conduit of trust of the first ruler with the citizens and deprives respect, affection and credibility to the institution itself of the Presidency of the Government. I say this because even, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we do not vote for President Sánchez, whom we do not agree with him, we like to see this ethical and moral immolation live and live. We don't even like it. We know that it will be a source of problems that will take a long time and effort to solve; problems for all Spaniards, whether they vote for the PSOE or those who want to vote; problems for the pillars of the State, for the credibility of the State. Today, Pedro Sánchez and his Government have just consummated the deception on Spain and its own party. Ladies and gentlemen, the words make us slaves, the words make us linked to them and then reverberate with facts, which we say, and that is coherence in politics. They will agree with me that the politician who wants to be coherent, who wants to be credible, must not lie; he must have the same position and must not change his position, inexplicably, before the mockery of his own voters. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that President Sánchez in 2014 said the following textually: The pardons involve an interference of the Executive Power in the decisions of the Judiciary. In 2015, President Sánchez himself - then a Socialist Party activist with aspirations to be president of the government - said that political pardons had to be ended, and he said, ladies and gentlemen, 'I feel shame and I ask for forgiveness from the citizens for those of the PSOE'. Already as president of the government, in October 2019, and already signed the judgment by the Supreme Court, President Sánchez said textually: 'The debate of pardon is not on the table because neither the government has raised it nor the independenceists want it'. Today, ladies and gentlemen, President Sánchez has done quite the opposite of what he was advocating in an unprecedented error that undermines confidence in state institutions. In order to remain in power, the Government deviates from the law and from the law, enters into this field of arbitrariness and lifts the vado to the self-indulgence, which is prohibited in law because it benefits those who have sick anxiety to remain in power, even if it has to dismantle the State itself, something very serious, but which Mr Sánchez, President of the Government, is doing from the institutions. This will be a pardon for fraud of law, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and you know it. It is a self-indulgence because the government does so because it needs it to continue to rule and is seeing it all over Spain; it is seeing it all over Spain, Mrs. Lastra, all over Spain, do so to remain in power. Is this statement made only by the People's Party? No, ladies and gentlemen, it is done by the vast majority of Spaniards, but it is also the signature without compromise of the Supreme Court in its report against these pardons. The Supreme Court says: The message conveyed by the condemned is very expressive of a willingness to recidivize in the attack on the pillars of democratic coexistence. He says so, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the sentencing court. The Supreme Court is categorically against these pardons and says that the message transmitted by the convicted persons in the exercise of their last word and in their subsequent public statements is very expressive of their willingness to recidivize in the attack on the pillars of democratic coexistence, assuming even that the struggle for their political ideals authorizes the mobilization of citizens to proclaim the non-observance of laws, the replacement of the head of State and the unilateral displacement of the sources of national sovereignty. These are the words of the Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, not of the People's Group. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the Office of the Prosecutor of the Supreme Court has also been diaphanous in its report, as has the sentencing court, the Supreme Court. He's totally against these pardons. The four prosecutors of the Supreme Court, Consuelo Madrigal, Javier Zaragoza, Fidel Cadena and Javier Moreno declare that there is no admissible reason in law to justify the pardon nor does there exist the repentance of the convicted. They argue that granting grace would give priority to the disloyal and corrupt ruler. We have been talking before corruption and look at the pardon that is being granted today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. The Prosecutor's Office says: Granting grace would give priority to the disloyal and corrupt ruler, in addition to the fact that there is no clear acceptance of responsibility for the crime and no intention of not recidivizing. Do you want more, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? The Spanish society, against; the Prosecutor's Office, against; the Supreme Court, against and many militants of the Socialist Party, even if they do not say so, against; and Pedro Sánchez willing to maintain the pardon to remain in power. [[Applauds]] That is the reality that we have in our country, there is no other and all of Spain is seeing it, ladies and gentlemen. In the references to these reports, we told them last week, to the consideration of self-indulgence make it clear that this Government is acting arbitrarily. The arbitrary form is that which expressly prohibits in article 9 of the Constitution, and you are falling directly into it with these pardons because the pardon is granted by the one who is benefiting from it because he needs political support through the right of grace to remain in power. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is illegal and immoral. We will demand that this damage be repaired in the courts of justice. Similarly, we also demand that the Government abandon its intention to reform certain criminal types of the Criminal Code as a political payment to its secessionist partner. This is unacceptable from all points of view. That is enough, ladies and gentlemen, of Mr Sánchez's political payments. Spain is tired. One cannot kneel to an entire government to beg the votes of the separatists to remain in power. That's it! Those who are delinquent and repeat that they are going to do so again must not be pardoned is, ladies and gentlemen, they must comply with the sentences. We must fight them back and if we want to agree, we must not be anodistic about their lies, we must tell them that they are not right and that here those who make it pay, because we are in a state of law, and those who go against the law find themselves with the courts and with the convictions. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Here we have to comply with the sentences that are imposed. If there is no respect for the State, there is no respect for the law, and if the State is not respected, it endangers us all, ladies and gentlemen, because the social contract that reflects the constitutional principles where we delegate to the State to protect us is broken. If the Government humbles itself before the criminals who preach that they will do it again, they will do it again in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, you are certainly something very harmful to our country. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate you on your]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Simancas Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are many Spaniards who at the moment are wondering why the two most important groups in this House and in the country do not agree, albeit minimally, to face one of the most important problems that Spain has, the lace of Catalonia in the rest of the country. And the answer is as obvious as it is regrettable: we do not even agree on the purpose, we have diametrically opposite objectives. The Socialist Party wants to solve the problem in the interests of Spain; the People's Party wants to aggravate the problem in the interests of the People's Party itself. [[Applauds]] And there is no right, ladies and gentlemen. There is no right for you again and again to put your own benefit before the common good of the Spaniards. There is no right for the Spaniards to have to go wrong for you to go well. There is no right to have, over and over again, either in the Catalan question, either at the end of terrorism, or in the response to the Moroccan aggression, or at the arrival of European funds, when difficult decisions have to be taken, the Socialist Party has to assume responsibilities that belong to all and have to do so with the right against, sabotaging the work of the Spanish Government and boycotting the general interest of the Spanish. There's no right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rojas, what is the use of this bill? What contributes to the solution of the problem? What contributes to understanding, to the coexistence between Catalans, between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish? Nothing. You enter the swampy terrain to exclude crimes from the application of pardon. You tell us: the law of pardon lacks a catalogue of serious crimes that must be excluded from the possibility of pardoning. It's a controversial issue, but you dare. You tell us that the most serious crimes of all, the most serious of the entire Penal Code, are those of sedition and rebellion and must be excluded from pardon. What is the practical application of this idea of yours? With this bill, no one who organizes an illegal referendum can be pardoned, but a murderer, a kidnapper, a terrorist can be pardoned. With this proposal of law one cannot pardon anyone who proclaims a unilateral declaration of independence, but one can pardon a corrupt person. More specifically, Mr Rojas, with this motion for a law one cannot pardon the leaders of the Catalan process, but one can pardon María Dolores de Cospedal if it ends up being condemned by the Kitchen case. [[Applauds]] What a coincidence! Is it a matter of persecuting the crime, Mr. Rojas, or is it a matter of persecuting some crimes yes and others no? Is it a question of closing the door to pardons or closing the door to some pardons and leaving the door open to other pardons, just in case? Come now, Mr. Rojas, come now! You should know that this country is going through a difficult situation. You should know... [[Rumors.-Mr.Ledesma Martín utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u30	Mr. Ledesma, please, I'm asking you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u31	The pandemic has taken lives, it has taken health, it has taken businesses, it has taken thousands of jobs, it has taken the balance in public accounts and you should know that what this country needs to face such absolutely decisive challenges is more understanding and no more confrontation, it is more unity and no more division. You should know that the path to a future of better coexistence, economic recovery and the generation of good jobs does not pass through the square of Columbus, passes through the street concordia, goes by solving problems and not by aggravating them. That is why we are asking you, gentlemen of the PP, to exercise patriotism. We are asking you, in addition to carrying the flag on the mask or on the clock, to bring it also to the facts and intentions and to contribute to making country and not to constantly generating affront, reproach, confrontation, division. A little patriotism, well! [[Applauds]] You use arguments that are absolutely incredible, Mr Rojas, you have again raised here today. He says that pardons are unconstitutional, that they are illegal. Look, they are in section 62 of the Constitution, that we have a law on pardons since the late 19th century. Do you know what is unconstitutional and illegal? Insinuate that the king does not have to sign government decrees. That's unconstitutional and illegal. [[Applauds]] They tell us that crimes have to be punished, that crimes cannot go unpunished. And it is said by the party that put the Ministry of the Interior, from top to bottom, in the service of an operation to cover up their corruption. [[Applauds]] It is said by the party that offered embassies to Inspector Morocho to cover his latrocinium. Says the party that spied, stole, and bribed the driver of his own treasurer to cover up his corruption. But if you're specialists in setting up operations to dodge justice. What are you talking about, Mr. Rojas? [[Applauds]] They say we surrender to independence. Look, no. We do not share the idea of independence; we are, as our spokesman says constantly, internationalists. We do not share concepts such as independence, sovereignty or self-determination. We understand that these concepts are largely anachronistic, that they are out of time and place. We live in the century of interdependence, in the century of globality, of multilateralism. But what independence are we talking about? Last week a German woman came here to approve our own recovery plan and in October, when we have to make our budgets, we will have to ask for Brussels permissions. More than half of the rules adopted by your ladies and gentlemen in this House are drawn up in Strasbourg. What independence are we talking about? The great challenges facing this country are global challenges, such as the fight against climate change, such as the management of migration, such as the tax avoidance of large multinationals, such as fair trade. Increasingly integrated spaces, broader spaces and transnational actors are needed to address them. In our view, independence runs counter to the sense of time. Time is in favour of interdependence, not independence; in favour of collective determination, not self-determination. That's our thought. We do not agree with independence, but ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the independenceists are there, they are going to continue there, and they have 23 seats in this house. We will have to talk to them, we will have to understand them within the law, demanding the fulfillment of the law. But what we can't do is deny your existence, Mr. Rojas. What we cannot do is deny their legitimacy, because the votes that have brought them here are as legitimate as yours and as mine, Mr Rojas. What we can't do is bury the head under the ground. What we cannot do, Mr Rojas - and I say this to you in particular - is to take advantage of the misunderstanding and the rejection that independence can provoke to confront some Spaniards with others in the rest of Spain and take advantage of it. That's not patriotism, that's advantageousism, that's opportunistism of the worst calaña. [[Applauds]] You say that most of the Spaniards are in their position. How do you tell the Spaniards? How many signatures have you collected, Mr. Rojas? 300,000 signatures? But if you say you have 700,000 militants! They have not convinced half of their militants and they want to tell us that all the Spaniards are with you. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Do you know how we count? As the Constitution says: with the representation of the Spaniards. You gave us a hand last week with your motion and here you voted on the pardons: 152 votes in favour of discord and 190 votes in favour of concord. Please note that today's vote will have a very similar result. We are told that civil society is in its position. They now distinguish between good civil society and bad civil society. Do you really believe that all that crowd of angry and anti-sanctist Tertullians represent Spanish society? Do you really believe that Rosa Díez, that inexhaustible source of peace, harmony and balance, represents Spanish society, Mr Rojas? [[Applause and laughter]] The Spanish society is represented by their unions, which are for the concord, and by the entrepreneurs of Barcelona and Madrid, which are for the concord; even the bishops are to solve problems and not to make them worse, ladies and gentlemen. The President of the European Commission also came to defend consensus against dissent, and she is from the European People's Party. If even the territorial barons of the People's Party left Mr. Casado alone reinventing weddings, baptisms and communions so as not to accompany him to Columbus. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have remained alone; but, alone and with those, it is even worse. [[pointing to the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today we are going to ask you not to follow this path, this path of Columbus and the small tables. The prison road and only prison has been rehearsed by you, and it didn't go well. Do not stumble on the same stone and do not invite the rest of the Spaniards to stumble again on that stone. Today we are not going to demand that you be like us, patriots in the opposition and in the government; it would be too much to ask of you. We do not even ask you to be loyal to your country and to raise your shoulder to get out of a difficult stage. We are only going to ask you one thing, we are going to demand it and demand it: do not sabotage the legitimate attempt of Spanish society to leave behind old conflicts and aspire to a peaceful coexistence for their children. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President, with your veneration. Mr. Simancas, moderate, because I see you very tense. What a piece of paper you've touched here this afternoon! It's probably up to you to say things you don't feel, and if you feel them, they're absolutely wrong. I sincerely expected something more from you. I expected a higher debate, I expected a debate more up to its own trajectory and not to put the fan, the fan of the past, the one that rejects Spanish society, the one that doesn't explain anything, the one that doesn't argue anything, the 'and you more'. We're not going to fall into that trap, Mr. Simancas. You were talking that our bill could facilitate the pardon of some politician. What did you mean, Mr. Simancas? To pardon Chaves and Griñán, who are convicted in a final sentence? [[Applauds]] Did you mean that? The biggest fraud in the history of our democracy, with almost a billion euros of fraud and theft to the unemployed. Were you referring to the Socialist Party fraud in Andalusia, where subsidies were given in a newspaper paper at the bar, where socialist leaders said they had money to roast a cow in their house? You mean that, Mr. Simancas? I will not enter, but you measure your words at a time of this caliber for Spain. We make a law proposal with a very clear meaning and it is that we never again pardon for rebellion and sedition, that the State is protected, that the Spanish are protected. That is the meaning of the proposed law. Do not play fool by saying that you will be able to pardon a murderer, because we have said in the Committee on Justice that all future pardons have to come with the report in favour of the sentencing court and the Prosecutor's Office, and you have voted against it, Mr Simancas, you have voted against it in the Commission. [[applause]] You'll want to do it, but don't blame us. I don't mean to be like you. I respect that, but I do not intend to be like you, we prefer to remain popular deputies. This party I represent, and the one you just here... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u35	... insulting and tainting, has twice brought Spain out of very serious economic crises, has created more than eight million jobs with the effort of all Spaniards and will do so again with the presidency of Pablo Casado. You have this debate and this sentence, Mr Simancas. [[Applauds]] It's not about going to the vantage point to scratch votes. If that is precisely what Mr Sánchez has done, we do not. What we are asking for is law enforcement, something as simple as that. Of course the rupturists are there, as you said, but what you can't do is change votes with the rupturists to stay in power. We can talk, we can talk, as long as they comply with the law. If they don't comply with the law, they'll go to court. Mr. Simancas, is it so difficult to understand this position that Felipe González and Alfonso Guerra understand? And, of course, Rosa Díez; a respect for her trajectory, which must be respected. [[laughs]] Mr Simancas, we must respect the path of all because this country is built among all and with respect. That is the coexistence that our Constitution taught us and that of course we intend to follow from the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another very important aspect to what is happening and what has happened today in pardons. The Government left the victims unprotected. I have not heard you in your speech talk about the victims of the trial, which are many, Your Honor. Many victims are being harassed by this identity pressure, which has already been condemned in the courts. At what point in your reflection yesterday or today have you or President Sánchez agreed on the victims of the conflict, ladies and gentlemen? There are thousands of Catalans, thousands of victims who have suffered the marking, the painting, the harassment and the harassment of radical separatism. Today that separatism feels stronger with a weaker Government. What a paradox! Where are all those victims left for you and your government, Mr. Simancas? Where is the government's show of solidarity with the discovery of the CoR's willingness to attack the President of the People's Party? Where is he? Where do the merchants who had to close their shops for street riots one day stay for the government, and another also? Where are the hoteliers, the restaurateurs, the self-employed or the workers, who have suffered in their flesh the unjust degradation of the image of Catalonia as a land of conflict that does not attract tourism as before? Where are the thousands of Catalan companies that were forced to leave their lands, Mr. Simancas? For separatism is sending them a message: do not come because we will do it again. Where are the pupils harassed in schools for their thoughts, their language or their origin? Where are the cops who defended the law? Where are the judges who applied it, Your Honor? Where is the Socialist Party that defended the law for so many years in this country and today defends those who fail to comply with the law? It's unacceptable, put yourself in the right place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u36	Mr. Rojas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u37	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u39	Thank you, President. Mr Rojas, the two foundations of your argument are predictable: the alleged moral outrage on your part and the alleged betrayal of Spain for ours. Requirement and moral indignation. A curiosity, Mr. Rojas. Where does that moral indignation come from? Which floor of Genoa Street? The first, the second or the third that you reformed with black money? From the fourth or fifth, where they hammered down the Barcenes hard drive? Or the sixth, where they had to erase the cameras' footage so they didn't record their bites? Come now, Your Honor! [[Applauds]] Less moral argument and less breast strokes. Betrayal is even worse, Mr. Rojas, because things are very recent. Do you know what treason is to Spain? This. [[Show a picture]] Mr Casado meets with 29 ambassadors from the European Union to hinder the arrival of European funds in Spain. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Lie!-Applause]] The People's Party writes a letter to the Commissioner for Justice of the European Union calling into question the rule of law in Spain when the European funds that have to reach our country are being decided. [[Applauds]] The PP participates in a meeting with the liberal hawks of Denmark, Sweden and Austria to demand severe requirements on the arrival of funds to Spain. Mr Rojas, those funds are life for this country, they are economic recovery, the generation of employment; they are the strengthening of our health system, and you have put problems upon arrival. That's betraying Spain. They reiterate accusations that are not sustained. Inconsistent, they tell us. Look, we've always been betting on coexistence, on re-encountering, within the law. That's always been our speech. Do you know what's incoherent? Approve thousands of pardons to all kinds of criminals when ruled, including corrupt ones, and deny today the legality of pardons; that is inconsistency. [[Applauds]] Humiliation. You see, Mr. Rojas, don't humiliate anyone who works for the good of your country. Do you know what humiliation is? To go to the Plaza de Colón and not to go through Bailen Street so that you do not get booed; that is to humble yourself. [[Applauds]] Cowardly. No, look, coward is the one who ignores what is right for the country to do what is only right for himself. Cowardly is to be carried away by those who defend the breaking of coexistence constantly. But the most significant accusation, Mr Rojas, that you have thrown at us these days has reiterated it today, and it has to do with the lack of legitimacy. The illegitimacy that you make is not so much with the unconstitutionality or illegality of the measure, or with the lack of repentance, no, you go beyond. You understand that this is an illegitimate measure because, in your view, it has been approved by an illegitimate government. Your problem is not with pardons, your problem is with democracy, Mr Rojas. [[Applauds]] You are pathologically unable to accept that when others win the elections, it is those others who have the legitimacy to rule even if they are not right-wing. You have a pathological problem with democracy, but there is a cure, Mr Rojas, it's called opposition time. Given the severity of your pathology, you must be prescribed a lot, a lot, a lot of opposition time. [[Applauds]] Mr Rojas, I ask you, please, not to manipulate the Constitution for purposes that are far from the letter and spirit of our magna letter. If there is anything, Mr Rojas, that does not support the 1978 Constitution, it is the discord and confrontation between Spaniards. Because the Constitution in its genesis, in its intention, in its drafting means exactly the opposite: a call to overcome endemic conflicts, a call to reunion, understanding and consensus among Spaniards. Constitutionalism, yes; using the Constitution as a stone, no. That's all right, Mr. Rojas. Stop tattooing your flag and please apply it to your content and purpose of unity for once. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place on the agenda of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. If this proposal to amend the Law of 18 June 1870, which establishes rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon, will be relevant, the Council of Ministers has rushed to approve this morning the partial and conditional pardons to those who intend to offend again against Spain, the Constitution and the rule of law. A meeting in Moncloa preceded yesterday by the stellar performance of its president, Mr Sánchez, at the Grand Teatro del Liceo to proclaim in Barcelona what he has not yet had time to explain before the General Courts representing national sovereignty. If your agenda was conditioned perhaps by the strenuous bilateral encounter with Mr Joe Biden, the Minister of Justice, Mr Campo, could have appeared from the well-known strain of incoherence from where I said, I say Diego: previously pardons, no; now pardons, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to vote in favour of the people's group's consideration because it reflects the urgency of asserting our Constitution and preventing the Spanish Government itself from engaging in an illegal endorsement of the attempt at territorial disintegration that was worthy of the conviction of the Supreme Court, whose authority is now in question. By the way, Mr Simancas, when Mrs Rosa Díez and the Union 78 civic platform denounce these facts, they are representing millions of Spaniards; do not underestimate it, do not despise those who we have come to the Plaza de Colón in large numbers two Sundays ago. We are at a very bad time for Spain because the government cynically invokes concord as a pretext to continue in this legislature that it gave year and a half ago to the insatiable demands of separatism. In short, I shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u42	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez said that it was not logical for politicians to pardon other politicians and that that was a shame, and that is true. More shame and humiliation is to see the President of the Government of your country, the President of the Government of Spain, apologize to those who have committed crimes and ask them, please, to forgive the whole of Spain because justice has acted and imprisoned them. [[The Lord]] And how does President Aragonès respond? He says: At last Spain has acknowledged that an injustice was committed with them. That's what has been achieved, to humiliate justice and a whole country, and all because it's one more day sitting on the blue chair. That's what President Sanchez got. In exchange for what has been humiliated, asked for forgiveness, said please, etc.? Are the independence groups going to come out here later to say that they renounce self-determination and amnesty? No way. But they've already told them they won't! Then, says the spokesman of the Socialist Party: Congress will say by a majority that it is in favour of pardons. Of course, but this Congress has been forgotten to say that when the Socialist Party presented itself to the elections it said that it would never pardon them. Just as you, when you ran for office, deceived all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] So, if you're so sure, now call elections, see what the whole of the Spaniards think, see if they keep thinking the same thing. Now that everyone already knows that they were lying before the elections - some of us already knew it - the whole of the Spaniards is changing their minds. The Vice-President also said that a democratic Government could not take prisoners out of prison. So what do you mean, that when you get out of jail tomorrow this government has ceased to be democratic, according to the Vice President of the Government of Spain? It's just that you said it, not the others. You kneel before sovereignism, ask forgiveness, beg forgiveness, and, not in conformity with that, claim that all others join you. Is it not more logical than all of us to say that we must comply with the law, that Spain is a rule of law, that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, as the Constitution says, and that those who fail to comply with the laws will be judged in a fair trial and will have to bear the consequences? You have bought the account that Spain is an oppressive state and that justice is Francoist, and all for keeping in power. That is an ignominy, it is to punish Spain and it is to drag Spain across Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u44	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u45	Thank you, President. Adrian Sas, request for more than three years in prison for protesting on October 1, 2018. Marcel Vivet, request for five years in prison for participating in an action in which paint dust is thrown at a line of police defense. David and Álvaro, five-year petition for participation in protests against the Supreme Court ruling. [[Applauds]] Anna Gabriel, Marta Rovira, Carles Puigdemont, Toni Comín, Clara Ponsatí, LluísPuig, Valtònyc, in exile. The pardons go late, they're wrong and they're not the beginning of anything. Amnesty and self-determination. We won't stop. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u46	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u47	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I often chastise yesterday from the Council of Europe, don't I? [[Applauds]] What is scandalous is not that political prisoners are released, what is scandalous in European standards - I told you - is that in a Member State of the European Union today there are political prisoners. Moreover, Spain is going to be condemned - yes, it is going to be condemned - by the European Court of Human Rights on the same criteria on which the report of the Council of Europe was based yesterday. If you don't believe it, I'll bet you a dinner - put it on. [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress delivers words that are not perceived]] Not so much, I'm on a diet; it's the bikini operation already. You, when you talk about the right of grace, the truth is that you have a joke, you make a lot of fun, because there is nothing but looking at your past - you have already mentioned it - to see that you are the kings of pardon. They have pardoned corrupt-have that record - they have also pardoned state terrorists, torturers, kamikazes and people convicted of sexual crimes, and clothes are torn here, trying to simulate a state crisis, because they are going to release political prisoners. Even if they did not agree, and even if it was only out of shame after the eardrop that hit them at the Council of Europe, they should be in favour, and that would improve that image of the state they have. If they want to be among the world's leading states at democratic levels, even if that is the only reason, by democracy, they should do so. Moreover - let's go back to your past as kings of pardon - you also said that there are reports against the prosecutors' judges, but most of the reports, 54% with Mr Rajoy's government were against their pardons. And you come here to teach lessons? They also propose that the crimes of corruption and macho violence, precisely, be excluded from the law - it is true that it is an old law and that it is obsolete and that this Congress of Deputies has already expressed itself in favour of renewing it - but you no longer care about this, these are not the important crimes, they must be the one of sedition and the one of rebellion, which the Council of Europe called for to withdraw. By the way, Mr Bal has set us up because he mentioned the proposal made by the Socialist Party three years ago concerning the non-indulgence in crimes committed by an authority in the exercise of its office and he has forgotten the purpose - that is the trap - which was to obtain an economic benefit for himself or for a third party. I am in favour of the elimination of pardons to corrupt and sexist criminals, of course, but don't cheat on us. I come back to yesterday's report from the Council of Europe, which I believe is important, because it is in the same line, as I said last week, of the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detentions and because it is the reason why no or no exiled Catalan policy has been handed over to Spain. Not only does it call for the release of Catalan prisoners and political prisoners, but it also calls for the lifting of the posts of those in exile and the reform of the Criminal Code. Can't you see that Europe is going against you? What you are asking not to be pardoned, Europe calls for it to be removed from the Criminal Code. I believe that it is a positive step to release Catalan political prisoners and to put an end to injustice. I also say that it is indifferent to me if they go out pardoned or come out filing a barrote; I don't care. It's a good thing these people got out of where they never had to be. But it's true that it's short. President Sánchez spoke today of concord and coexistence - I don't know how many times he mentioned it - and yesterday in Liceu. The measure remains short, because there are more than three thousand accused, because the environment is of global repression, because those most reactionary sectors of the State, those most ultra powers, feel challenged and will take advantage of this release to increase the level of repression, and here are the exaggerated and false police reports on the CoRs, that inquisitorial court and part that is the Court of Auditors and its reports, the exaggerated requests of the Prosecutor's Office or the disproportionate convictions in any international parameter. The measure is cut short. This atmosphere of coexistence and harmony is desirable in any State and in any territory of the world, but with this hostile and repressive environment this measure seems clearly insufficient. President Sánchez also said that the road will be long and that it will not be without difficulties. The difficulties are already, I have mentioned them: it is a long road and with vipers and alacrans already biting everyone who passes through it. In the face of that, what are you going to do? What are they going to do before all those powers of the state controlled by these gentlemen who go on the offensive and who do not understand either dialogue or agreement or conflict resolution through dialogue and negotiation? He also listened to Mr Sánchez mention his wishes for Catalan society, the desire for Catalonia to be European and the desire for it to live in prosperity and good fortune. It is very good that they are wanted things from the outside, but in order to resolve this situation, this political conflict, the Catalans and the Catalans must own their future, they must say what they want for the future. Meanwhile, every step is for the sake of resolution and release; and pardons are positive, but so far, being good news, they are insufficient. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u49	Thank you very much, President. With regard to Catalan independence leaders, even before the ruling of the Supreme Court, there has been debate as to whether the Criminal Code should be amended with regard to the crime of sedition in order to temper convictions in accordance with the principle of the most favourable criminal law, whether pardons should be granted to convicted persons and whether the Law on Pardon should be amended so that future convicted persons could not benefit from them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed all these issues on numerous occasions and you are well aware of the position of the Basque Nationalist Party. The People's Parliamentary Group is once again calling for the reform of the Pardon Act to legally exclude those convicted of sedition or rebellion from the measure of grace. Although the initiative is formulated in general terms, it is built as an ad personam law, against the possible granting of pardons to Catalan independence leaders convicted of the crime of sedition, as explained by the statement of reasons, current or future convictions for acts committed during the so-called Catalan process that the Basque Parliamentary Group does not share. Let us return and repeat that there was no sedition or rebellion or coup d'état. There was a constitutional conflict around different senses of national belonging, which had a unique crystallization in a call, not binding on the citizenry, from the Catalan institutions to express freely and democratically their sense of belonging, and which was answered since the exercise of the coercive force of the State, as if a matter of public order were dealt with, not as a political conflict calling for a treatment by political channels of dialogue and negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the initiative we are debating. We reject it both as a law measured as a rule of general scope, beyond the case of Catalan political leaders. We've already exposed him on some occasion. The institution of pardon is not a relic of the past. It makes full sense in a model of a democratic rule of law, it is found in all the constitutional systems of our environment, and it resolves the tension between legality and material justice when the penalty is disproportionate, thus realizing the real value of justice; when the penalty loses its purpose with regard to social reintegration for causes arising; when in exceptional situations of public utility it resolves the tension between legality and State reason linked to political reasons, as argued by Manuel Fraga in the constitutional debates, when the penalty hinders or generates social or international conflict or is linked to reasons of criminal policy to ensure, for example, the collaboration of confidants of criminal organizations. Therefore, amending the Law on Pardon, as proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group, means removing from the roots decisions of the criminal policy and of the policy itself, considering that the meta-legal values that can be protected through the institution of pardon are not feasible through certain convicts; it means undermining the effectiveness of the valve that rational constitutionalism has as a useful tool for society, and it implies ignoring the very nature of the institution of pardon, which directly relates, if considered by the Government, to collective interests of justice, equity or public utility with the convicted person and his sentence, but not with the deed, since the pardon does not extinguish the offence, as we know, and only gives up the penalty when its non-enforcement produces more advantages than disadvantages. None of the causes of the pardon are projected on the crime, but on the penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating pardon from different perspectives, from the amendment of the Law on Pardon, to which we oppose, as we have stated, and from those granted, that they are not a vacuum building, because there are reasons to argue that they remove obstacles to dialogue and negotiation around the so-called Catalan political conflict, which is a constitutional conflict. This is what this House considered last week, and we believe that it also estimated it today. That is what the Council of Europe considered yesterday. This has been considered by economic, trade union and social actors. This has been considered by the social, national and international media. This is considered to be a good part of the chancellery. And this is considered to be a good part of society, mostly in Catalonia and in Euskadi. It's over, President. The pardons to Catalan political prisoners maintain a logical coherence with objective data that attest to the desirability, from the public utility that it represents to remove obstacles, of facilitating the approach of the Catalan political conflict from a purely political perspective, something extremely difficult, if not impossible, with independentist political leaders imprisoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u51	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. I would like to stress, as I started my previous speech, that today is 22 June 2021 and it has been pardoned to those who gave a coup d'état in Spain and Catalonia and that it will never be in my name either in the name of Citizens or in that of my parliamentary group. Today it is 22 June 2021 and people have been pardoned who have been convicted of sedition and embezzlement crimes, Mr Iñarritu - I repeat: of embezzlement - committed by public officials, by authorities in the exercise of their duties, and who clearly fall within the concept of corruption. Today is a day of mourning for Spain. Today is a bad day for Spain. Today is a day when the Council of Ministers has put our country on its knees in front of those who tried to break the country. Today is the day when the Council of Ministers has humiliated the millions of Spaniards that in October 2017 we fought to maintain coexistence, to maintain the Constitution, to defend the laws, to defend the rule of law and the division of powers and to truly defend coexistence, which can only take place with respect for the law. It was a shame. Above all, it is a shame to see the blue bank empty and that the government has not even brought to this House the possibility of discussing pardons before granting them. Mr Sánchez will be here next week, as the agenda adopted this morning at the Spokesman's Meeting says, to talk about the political and economic situation in the country. It does not even come, it seems, to speak of pardons, because it must be that this is a matter that does not concern anyone. Mr Sánchez is not here to listen to what we have to say, because Mr Sánchez, if you look at him, never looks at the Spanish, always looks down. [[Applauds]] You can be ashamed of yourself. That's why he had to go to the theater yesterday to tell the Spaniards what he was going to do with the pardons, to be a buffoon, to be a comedian, to make fun of Mr. Junqueras and Mr. Aragonès. Here I cannot say more that this is a bochorno for the good name of my country. There is nothing but helplessness for millions of Spaniards, there is nothing but indignation. The Socialist Party will always meet with my opposition and with the opposition of my party, sharp, vehemently and without nuances, because it passes over millions of Spaniards, because it tramples the dignity of my country's justice and because it drags the name of Spain through the mud. Yesterday I was in Barcelona with Carlos Carrizosa, with Joan García, with Inés Arrimadas, with Marina Bravo and Mariluz Guilarte, and José María Espejo was connected to the meeting through Zoom. They saw there, in the front line, in the first person, what happened in October 2017. No one's told him. They fought there for democracy and for maintaining coexistence, but today the president of the government wants to humiliate them, humiliate those people who in Catalonia and Spain fight for coexistence and respect for the law, and today, in addition, the independenceists laugh at us. These say that the Spanish state is weak, but they confuse the state with the government, because the real government is weak. The Vice-President of the Government also told Inés Arrimadas last Wednesday that we had a speech that fractured Catalan society, a horrible speech can't be more unfortunate those statements and now Mr Simancas says that, as the PP pardons very badly, they also pardon very badly - the argument that Mr Simancas uses is absolutely wonderful, right?- and that you are more corrupt than they and that you pardon some and now they pardon these others, because we all like to do it frankly wrong. Mr Simancas, what a survival instinct you have to keep sitting there!, just like Mr Sánchez and most socialists on his bench, who are able to say anything so as to keep coming out of the picture. What a shame! What we heard yesterday from the President of the Government, without a mask and removing his mask, was grossly immoral, as Mr Rojas said. It was bluntly immoral because it uses the Constitution only to keep itself in power and it was bluntly immoral because it spoke of shared responsibilities between the two parties, that is, between those who comply with the laws and those who commit crimes. This is absolutely amazing. But I'll tell you what. My colleagues fought in Catalonia to defend the Constitution and the law and in Madrid I fought to defend the Constitution and the law, and I had a bad time, they stopped me, and today some of you will believe that you have won. For they have not won - I repeat: they have not won -, and do you know why? because we will do it again and if they again strike against the Spanish Constitution they will go back to jail, they will be tried again and there will be no pardon worth it, because there is no pardon against the repeaters. Before I got out of my seat, I listened to the statements of Mr Aragonès, who said that the prisoners came out with the strengthened will to build the Catalan Republic. This must be the public utility to which Mr Sánchez refers, right?, the disinflammation, the concord to which Mr Simancas referred, alluding to the street of concord, respect for coexistence - the cries of Mrs Carvalho the truth is that they do not feed much coexistence and concord, and we must say it clearly -. I don't know what's coming now, but they're always gonna have us in front of them. We will file the administrative appeal and, as the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court says, without regret and saying that they will do so again, I hope to win this appeal and that those convicted of sedition and embezzlement crimes will return to where they should be, to prison. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rojas, I am going to be more vehemently with this initiative of the People's Party than with the previous initiative of VOX, and I am going to be because you govern in some autonomous communities and in municipalities and have a vocation to govern in the Spanish State. However, VOX does not have this vocation, it has the vocation of being the crutched right-wing crutches, which are you. You will regret what you are doing, but not only you but those who come after the People's Party. Today we are presented with an initiative to amend the Pardons Act and they want to exclude only two offences. They do not seek to exclude terrorism, they do not seek to exclude sexual assault or rape, they do not seek to exclude killings. Why? Because you don't care about the law of pardons. How many years have they ruled by absolute majority and have they not changed the Law of Pardons? You asked Mr.Siancas the following: Don't you know what you think and what happens in Spain? And I also asked you, Mr Rojas: Don't you know what's going on in Europe and in the world? Don't you want to find out? Don't you want to know what happened yesterday in the Council of Europe? Do you know the only representatives of the countries that voted mostly against the resolution yesterday? Do you know what they were? I tell you: Spain, Turkey and Azerbaijan. Doesn't this tell you anything? Doesn't it raise any doubts? Have you read the Financial Times editorial? Doesn't it raise any doubts? Have you seen the letter signed for 33 Nobel Prizes in defense of Professor Mas-Colell, 33 Nobel Prizes in Economics? Doesn't that tell you anything? Doesn't it raise any doubts? Why? Because what the People's Party is really proposing is to recover the autarchy of the fifty-sixties in Spain. Yes, yes, a short-sighted autarchy to what is happening all over the world, an autarchy that at that time obviously had a political component, but essentially an economic component, and you in the 21st century pose a political autarchy, an autarchy to democracy, an autarchy to the judicial system. Do you remember the rulings of the German, Belgian and Scottish judicial systems? Doesn't he tell you anything? This is the situation you raise. They will have to explain it to the Catalans, to those who despise Mr Casado, they will have to explain it to the Catalans who were inside the High School, and they will have to explain it to the Catalans that we were outside the High School: what is their approach to Catalonia? What is your approach to this united Spain that you defend? [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group: Time!]] There is some Member of the People's Party who is impertinent in the control of time, who is responsible to the President and not to his lordship. [[Applauds]] Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u54	It's got to be over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u55	Yeah. Thank you, President. In any case, you are responsible for what you do and you are going to pay for it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u56	Thank you, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u57	Thank you, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] They have been presenting initiatives to address the issue of pardons for several weeks, gentlemen of the People's Party. Without going into the ridiculous thing that I personally believe they are doing to promote a campaign against pardons, when it is the party that has been granted the most pardons and which has been granted the most corrupt, the fundamental question is that none of what they have been doing these past weeks has covered what the Council of Europe said yesterday, which is the same thing that we repeat here every week and that today we are going to repeat, as always, but with a difference from the other weeks, and that is that today we do not say it alone, today the Council of Europe demands: libertat political prisoners, exiles and reprisals of the Regne d'Espanya. [[Applauds]] Mr Rojas, I recommend that you read the report of the Council of Europe adopted yesterday, and I also recommend a little humility. Your strategy of hatred against Catalonia has resulted in you being reduced or residual in the Parliament of Catalonia, just as residual as the tables you have been able to set up throughout Catalonia to ask for signatures against pardons. They've been talking about the finger for weeks, let's talk about the moon. After more than a year of pressure that what happened yesterday will not happen, the Council of Europe finally adopted with a large majority a report in which the Kingdom of Spain is portrayed, in which you are compared with Turkey, and in which you are accused of merging political activity with judicial activity. Let us talk about reunions, yes, but about the reunification of the Kingdom of Spain with European democracies. And let us talk about reconciliation, too, but reconciliation of the Kingdom of Spain with fundamental rights. Since the debate on pardons began we have repeated that they are not the fruit of any gesture of kindness on the part of the progressive government, and it is only necessary to look at the small letter of pardons to realize. We have said that, from the first day, they are a consequence of international pressure, and if something has been shown by President Puigdemont and the councillors in exile, it is that if they plant in front of injustices, you end up winning. And this the Spanish parties of government have it clearer than anyone else, and that is why they have tried for land, sea and air, even protected by patriotic justice, to stop, to sacrifice, to end with the one that has never surrendered, with the one that has never been sold, with the one that has always ended up winning them: the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont. I'm on my way. Europe has marked the way for you, and the way is amnesty and freedom, because the judicial route did not end with the Supreme Court's ruling, the judicial route continues.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u58	You must finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u59	I'm on my way. Roller's still rolling. Spread hate, respect the ballot boxes, everyone, and do politics at once. Visca Catalunya free. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u60	For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u61	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today we are debating a proposal for a law which, despite having an extension of just one folio, I am convinced that most of you have not read it or if you have read it you have not done it carefully enough. And it is that your proposal basically comes to tell us that we must prevent the most serious crimes from being pardoned. Literally they indicate: given the gravity of certain types of crimes and the passive subject of them it would be necessary to exclude them from the grace of pardon. What crimes are they referring to? Well, rebellion and sedition. In particular, there are obsolete crimes of rebellion and sedition, as the Council of Europe has just reminded you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party, is the crime of sedition more serious for you than a murder, more serious than a corruption with millionaire embezzlements, rather than an act of terrorism? Do you realize it doesn't make any sense what you're saying? Of course, it did not occur to them when they pardoned their corrupt. Look, I could now use this indecency contained in the text that you have presented to remind and emphasize that your Spanish nationalism blinds you and makes you identity and irrational and, frankly, I think I am not mistaken. I believe that what happens to you is that you are disoriented, that you look forward to having in your hands the helm of repression against Catalonia, and that when you see yourself outside the government at this historic moment you have simply lost the north. It is clear that his proposal aims to become a unique law, an ad hoc legal norm for the specific case of independent political prisoners, a legislative technique which is precisely spelt out of partiality and is not legally appropriate. And aside from the dubious constitutionality of the initiative for this reason, it is clear that you have not come here to talk about the legal figure of pardon. You have come here to talk about the legal figure of pardon in the sense of trying to ensure that repression against political dissent does not go back even a millimeter. And you know what? If you want to talk about the pardons of political prisoners, let's talk about the pardons. Ladies and gentlemen, neither Esquerra Republicana nor anyone within independence has ever claimed any pardon, because we believe that the priority is the political solution to the conflict between Spain and Catalonia. And we are not going to leave the 3,000 people who, without any political recognition, exercised their right to protest and protest, their right to represent as mayors, or their duty as public servants of the Government. Those three thousand people are our people, and they are suffering the injustice of the State in the form of harassment and judicial persecution. We are not going to leave them behind, and obviously we will not give up our country's freedom. For this reason, we say and remember that the only way out is through amnesty and the exercise of self-determination. Now, if anyone asks this parliamentary group whether they prefer Jordi Cuixart and Carme Forcadell to be in or out of jail, even through pardons, we are clear: we want them out. For their families, for their friends and friends, whom the State has also punished by depriving them of their company for almost four years, and also because a large majority of Catalonian citizens demanded the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners. And without any doubt, the pardons lighten the situation that our companions and their environment have experienced, but they are not the definitive solution. Let no one be deceived. They are an amendment to an unfair situation, but under no circumstances do they resolve the conflict. These pardons respond to requests from such important international personalities as Dilma Rousseff, former president of Brazil; Shirin Ebadi, Iranian lawyer and Nobel Peace Prize winner; Jody Williams, American human rights activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner; Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, Argentine pacifist and Nobel Peace Prize winner; Clayton Kerson, director of the Martin Luther King Institute; Ramin Jahanbegloo, philosopher and director of the Mahatma Gandhi Center for Peace. But above all, these pardons comply with the demands of the Council of Europe, which, like all its ladies and gentlemen, have been able to learn from the recent report adopted by that body, confirms that the ruling of the Supreme Court is not in line with international human rights standards, and expressly demands that political prisoners be pardoned, released, Euro orders withdrawn and the crime of sedition reformed. Ladies and gentlemen, the release from prison of Dolors Bassa and Joaquim Forn, as with the rest of the political prisoners and prisoners, is necessary and urgent in many ways, and also for this reason Republican Left has persisted in the dialogue; also for this reason, independence has never risen from the negotiating table, and we are convinced that this is the right path and that it also has the majority endorsement of the citizenry. The ballot boxes have given us that mandate for dialogue in each of the elections held during the last political cycles. The step that has been taken today has helped the path of dialogue and the negotiation that must be used to truly address the end of the repression of independence, a repression that continues every day, and today the vast majority of our country celebrates the freedom of Jordi Sànchez, Oriol Junqueras and the rest of the political prisoners and prisoners. We are no exception, we are also happy, but today nothing ends, we continue to demand the end of repression, we continue to fight for the judicialization of the conflict and for the end of the political persecution of more than three thousand independenceists. We continue to sit at the negotiating table for the exercise of self-determination. We continue with the strategy of summarizing and dialogue with a clear objective: the Catalan Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simancas has left the bar high today. [[Rumors]] Yes, he did a brilliant surgery. I wanted to start with Mr Edmundo Bal's speech on the previous point. Unfortunately, he left two minutes ago. He has begun his intervention by reading a fragment of a debate on the prohibition of pardons for crimes of corruption and gender-based violence. When I mentioned it, I went to the Journal of Sessions and found that debate, and I was able to see that Mr Edmundo Bal was distorting the position of both the Socialist Party and the Republican Left in that debate. But in any case, I have also looked at an interesting thing that I wanted to share with you. I read a passage from this debate, from the speech of a Member who says: 'The proposal has some opportunistic dyes because it seeks to promote a substantial modification of the Law of Indulgences, taking advantage of an interested and partisan way of a social and political problem: except certain crimes of pardonmeans to the contrary that there are pardons in terrorism, organized crime, sexual trafficking, pederasty or violence against minors, for example. Don't these crimes have a stronger social rejection?' I would ask Mr Edmundo Bal - he is not - but I ask Mr Rojas, do you know, Mr Rojas, whose words are those? They could be ours today to oppose your proposal, but it turns out they were yours, your spokesman's. And applying the logic of what you were saying then, I understand that when you want to ban those crimes it is because it seems to you that there are pardons in cases of terrorism, organized crime, sexual trafficking, pederasty or violence against minors, for setting some examples, because that's what you said in 2015. I guess that's the way it is, isn't it? You don't have to answer me. In fact, the answer is already published in the BOE, it is published in the hundreds of pardons that you have granted. Well, what do I say hundreds? Miles! You say today that that is an interference of the executive power in the judiciary. For with the Aznar government six thousand interferences you made, more than six thousand - imagine - many times arbitrarily and in cases that generated social alarm. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I must tell you that your proposal is an exercise in memory, hypocrisy and cynicism. Today you are scandalized by the pardons of the leaders of a parliamentary majority in Catalonia, of a democratic government. You, who granted pardons to the state terrorism of the LAGs. You, who applauded the pardons of those who went out with tanks and machine guns to carry out a coup d'état against democracy on 23-F. That was a coup d'état, not an imaginary coup that the Supreme has not even seen. You, who have granted pardons to those convicted of abhorrent crimes of corruption, harassment, sexual assault, torture or crimes where there has been kidnapping and death. With that resume, ladies and gentlemen, how dare you give us lessons on how to pardon or not? You, who have been the champions of pardons also corrupt judges and politicians, yours, your relatives or friends. Remember that kamikaze who took the life of a 25-year-old? I reminded you of that in a Committee on Justice. You think we've forgotten that case? That the pardon was requested by the office mate of the son of Minister Gallardón, who granted it, the brother of Aznar's Undersecretary of Justice? You have come here today to say that pardons do not have the reports of prosecutors, judges; neither did they have them, but neither did they have the favourable reports of the victim's family. You, who today say what you say about these pardons, had all these people against you; today it seems that you, in your intervention, put Married as a victim of these pardons. In any case, you can't give us lessons in pardons. With the Rajoy government, one in four pardons were for corruption; one in four, ladies and gentlemen. The most corrupt party in Europe turns out that it was also the one who most insulted corruption in Europe. That is why in 2015 you opposed banning pardons to corruption. How will they vote for that, of course! What are your arguments today to oppose these pardons? Well, I've pointed out a few of the ones you said. He spoke of arbitrariness; arbitrariness, when we all remember some pardons, for example, those of Acebes, in a single day, in a shot, 1400, because it was the Jubilee year; or for the millennium change, or for the anniversary of the coronation of John Charles: piece of argument used by you to grant pardons! Apart from it is seen that you are the only one who has been able to read the decree-law that has not yet been dictated, because you were already telling us about the motivation of these pardons. Another argument that you and also the spokesman for Citizens have used here today: the lack of repentance and full compliance with the penalties; you, who are the parents of the tax amnesty. Is it believed that we have forgotten the pardon of the armed coup player, who had not served five years in prison, a sentence of thirty, for a crime of rebellion without repentance? Why did they not then make the proposal they make today, when the sentence was also much more serious? Perhaps it has to do with the fact that you are a party founded by seven Francoist ministers. That, ladies and gentlemen, has only one name: memorylessness, cynicism and hypocrisy. Third argument. We are told that pardons are illegal, that they are going to appeal and that justice is going to give them reason. You know, because you're a lawyer, you don't have active legitimacy to appeal. You said: let's ask for legitimacy. Legitimacy is not called for; it has or does not have, and it is exercised when it has. You do not have it, and you also know that this is an exclusive power of the Government, which cannot be replaced by the will of the judges. Moreover, speaking of legality, it is indeed an act of cynicism when, in this case, you have made genuine calls for illegality. First, when they said that pardons should not be processed, when the Government is required by law to do so; and then, when they said that the king will not sign the pardons, when he is obliged to do so. The last argument you have used is that these pardons go against the sovereignty of the Spanish people. Mr Rojas, the sovereignty of the Spanish people is not in Columbus Square; it is here in this House; and the pardons, these pardons are the ones that have the greatest democratic legitimacy because they have a double endorsement: the endorsement of Europe - as we saw yesterday - and the endorsement of this House. This House last week said yes to pardons. Therefore, it is not only the decision of the Government; it is the decision of a House like this, that of the Congress of Deputies, which has the sovereignty of the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u64	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u65	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote yes to this consideration, but unfortunately, without any enthusiasm, with the bitter taste of taking the path of criticism, neither joyful nor convinced nor enthusiastic; even painful, as jurists, as Spaniards, in my case as Catalan, as millions of Catalans we have suffered in our families, farms, effects, affections and lives, the sought downfall of Spain, of the catalanity lived since childhood, nourished in many of us in our mother tongue, which is now used as a miserable differential fact of our Spanishness, which is part of an eternal universal concept, which is Hispanicity, of which Catalonia is the main actor. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] A bill that comes late, with an unquestionably improved articulation, that confuses the exception with the nature of the type and an inappropriate statement of motives of a law, as I already denounced in his day, a few days ago, to the contrary, when the People's Party was attacked and came to anger a few weeks later, with the delay that is usual for it. The usual delay of the People's Party, despite so many good people in its ranks, that its inaction in the government led to two illegal referendums, the only response being paralysis and then the liberticidious, suicidal, unfortunate laws of disconnection, while many lawyers in Barcelona made those crazy days phone calls to the comrades who knew of the crime, and told us that they would go ahead, and so they did, knowing of a weak government. Late as before the second referendum, sending law enforcement forces to a humiliating dead end, letting one of their main drivers run away like a trouper-dressed buffoon to tell fantastic stories even in the European Parliament. They applied a 155 more humiliating yet for the complexes of false consensus with whom he now pardons, and which has given wings to the seditious, all of them once again, for all this is new. Again, I insist, many of them friends who were friends, even former parliamentarians who once openly defend positions away not only from fanaticism, but from the so-called moderate nationalism, to which I greet, since it is not in this room. A mixture of successors of a character who has no match in cowardice, vileness and cruelty, who was Mr. Companys, of new Catalans and of a part of the bourgeoisie who always attends to monks to whom some of us no longer bother to answer, Madrid do not understand us, damn cowardice of the money that, moreover, was gnawed at the most humble. Proposition that comes late, very late, even would never have had to arrive if for more than forty years he had not danced, from the most rancio of the part of the society accommodated, with the Catalan nationalism presented by which they named with all rumors in Spanish Madrid of the year. Proposition that comes late, as long as it has been time for many of us to stop believing in the party that now represents, after the shameful pacts of the Majestic, that gave arms and luggage to the authors of these muds. [[Applauds]] And late also after Maragall's great socialist betrayal, which many naive Catalans, among whom I may have included myself, believed in his promises to unravel nationalism and return to Catalonia open, prosperous, rich, welcoming, Mediterranean, Spanish and universal. But that PSC in its DNA had embedded the betrayal that it had already suffered until the Socialist Party itself at its beginning; it created the nefarious tripartite of perjury, which today has manifested itself without modestness in the Council of Ministers with all those who seek not reconciliation, but the defeat of the adversary, of his totalitarian agenda of system change. A proposal that comes late, because for the purposes of today's events, the decorum of a nation has been muddled, of all those who, with pardons, intend to leave behind hidden lines the coup d'état perpetrated by an institution of the State in Catalonia, judged and condemned, which has become a chapter and the excuse for the annihilation of Spain by a mob that hides in the institutions, which has no compassion with those who defend the elementary principles that give meaning to a healthy society, and that its ultimate goal is the destruction of our model of coexistence, our history and our dignity even. He has played with Catalonia as an inert piece for the sacrifice of higher ends. With the approval of the pardons the Government betrays Spain and you, independent heroes, can already renounce your delusion that you have been about to perpetrate, because it will also betray you. You are one more piece on this board of cowardices, betrayals, silences, reproaches and quietness whose purpose is a change of regime. Spain and Catalonia are much more than all this. You will return to be and when we govern we will take care of the return of seny, our Catalan seny who has been kidnapped by the rauxa that we see today in the deputy Republican Left, in case someone did not know what the rauxa was. We will vote yes, but, as I have told you, with the bitter taste of criticism of a Catalonia that must be the advance of a great Spain in performance, in open patriotism and in the unset agreement that gives us reason to be. Even with critical patriotism, painful if it fits, but knowing of its moral strength and victory, we will recover Catalonia and Spain, and its muddled coexistence will not be recovered, of course, by any external advice dictated by any Latvian socialist. In this, VOX will not cease. Spain always. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u66	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u67	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group, which urges the Government to increase subsidies to special employment centres to compensate for the increase in the minimum wage and to ensure its viability. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u68	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Boadella for the work he has done to ensure that this non-legislative proposal can be debated today and we hope that it will be adopted, this time, with the votes of the government parties. The dignity of all people, leaving no one behind, must be one of the priorities of any advanced society. The social economy, which prioritizes people's profit and the creation of value for society, is one way to achieve it. In the field of work, special employment centres are a basic instrument for the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. These centres are characterised by staff where at least 70% of workers are persons with disabilities who are actually being placed on the labour market. This sector has been severely punished by the crisis of COVID-19. The pandemic has paralysed its activity for months and has not been able to have enough direct support from the Government, which, in addition, has been late and subjected to enormous bureaucratic obstacles. But when we talk about special employment centres, we are actually talking about the disabled people they employ. The pandemic has highlighted the lack of protection of this group, with an occupation rate of more than forty points below that of the rest of the population. From Junts per Catalunya we believe that maintaining and increasing jobs in special employment centres should be a priority for our society. To this end, direct aid and social security subsidies are not enough, and there is a need to increase subsidies for jobs. The wage base for these workers is the inter-professional minimum wage. The Administration is provisionally taking on 55 % of the grant, without distinguishing the degree of disability, when people with very different degrees of disability are employed in these centres, from 33 % to more than 65 %, and therefore with a very different productivity. In the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic, the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage increased from €735 in 2019 to €950 in 2020, with prospects for further growth. According to the reports that we have known this week, commissioned by the experts of the Ministry of Labour, it seems that this interprofessional minimum wage has aims to rise in the coming years. This unquestionably positive measure, from the labour and social point of view, has had a perverse effect on the wage costs of the special employment centres, putting their viability and, therefore, that of the jobs of the persons hired, especially when the disabled belong to the group of special difficulties. It is urgent to compensate for the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. This GNP, of course, does not have a wording in line with recent developments. In the Commission, last November, without the favourable vote of the Socialist and Podemos groups, an increase in the percentage of consolidated subsidy was approved, from 55% to 60%, but during emergency time, health crisis and COVID restrictions was set at 70%. We now await the adoption of this non-law proposal with the favourable vote of the majority of this House and now also with the favourable vote of the government parties, at least by consolidating the 55 % percentage, which was so far provisional, with the following developments: a mechanism is envisaged to increase the percentage up to 60 %, depending on the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, and also a mechanism to increase the percentage up to 70 % for groups of disabled persons with special difficulty; in addition to the above, the identification of the corresponding items in the State General Budgets is ensured. Knowing that in the Commission last November there was no agreement with the government parties, our priority - we say it openly - has been to negotiate a proposal that reflects the consensus of what was adopted in the Commission, but now also with the support of these groups, which, of course, can take the lead in the State General Budgets and thus guarantee this improvement for the special employment centres. For this reason, we are pleased to be able to say that we have reached an agreement and have agreed a compromise in this regard. In this way, it will be possible to compensate, at least in part, for the increase in wage costs and to avoid the insolvency and inadmissibility of the special employment centres, which, we recall, are entities whose aim is not economic profit, but rather to provide productive and remunerated work with a clear positive effect on society. In conclusion, we would like to point out three points. We are talking about a sector, that of enterprises in the social economy, which is particularly important in some territories, particularly in Catalonia, where 30% of this type of occupation is generated, with a clear commitment to inclusion in the labour market as a solution for people with disabilities. Secondly, our proposal includes a specificity in relation to the group of disabled people with special difficulties. This group is even more vulnerable to work discrimination because of its learning difficulties, adaptation, acquisition of habits, qualification and personal and social skills. This group has a lower employment ratio and requires a plus to enter the labour market. Moreover, the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage has an even greater impact on them because of the low productivity of their workers. The commitment of the administrations deserves more positive action, so we believe that with the agreement we have reached we have achieved a greater commitment to this particular group. Finally, our proposal foresees that the General State Budgets contain a specific own heading for grants to special work centres; a heading to be determined on the basis of the staffing of the centres, i.e. according to the number of payrolls of contracted persons reported during the current year. This transparency measure will make it possible to accurately identify the amount allocated to the centres, giving them security in the provision of grants. For all these reasons, we believe that this proposal, this non-legislative proposal, deserves the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, Mrs Saavedra Muñoz, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u70	Thank you, President. Special employment centres are private enterprises of a particular nature, must be economically sustainable, but they are committed to doing so by employing persons with disabilities. Our society considers that the maintenance of these jobs is a social benefit and therefore these centers enjoy several incentives in the form of grants, such as the subsidy for the maintenance of jobs for persons with disabilities set out in the Order of the Ministry of Labour of 1998, which states that this subsidy consists of 50% of the minimum interprofessional wage. Following the historic and fair increase in the inter-professional minimum wage from €736 to €900 in 2019, the Government raised aid to enable special employment centres to adapt to this increase and increased the contribution to these centres from 50 to 55% for persons recruited at these centres who had special difficulties in entering the regular labour market or with significant impairments or limitations. This was a temporary or extraordinary measure for 2019; however, this increase was renewed, maintained, in 2020 by the new increase in the SMI, but also and, above all, by the health circumstances that cause difficulties for the maintenance of employment in companies due to COVID-19. Under the same circumstances, the coalition government has maintained this contribution, this 55 % increase in the subsidy by 2021, on a short-term basis as well. This contributes to the sustainability of special employment centres by providing adequate support to those in need. The GNP presented by the Plural Group suggests that this contribution will increase from 50 % to 60 % on a permanent basis. This would mean that the State would contribute 94% of the increase in the inter-branch minimum wage and employers 5.7%. We consider it a contribution, a rise, somewhat disproportionate. We have tabled an amendment because we believe that it is important to continue to make progress in the social and economic sustainability of the special employment centres and to fulfil their social role and, in particular, to serve as a transit to ordinary employment. In this amendment we propose to consolidate for the future the contribution of the State of 55% of the inter-professional minimum wage that has been made in the last three years on an exceptional basis; to consolidate and maintain it in order to support, on a permanent basis, the centres in the maintenance of jobs, especially for workers with greater difficulties in accessing regular employment. The amendment also proposes to update and revise the legislation on active employment policies in favour of persons with disabilities - a commitment already expressed by the Minister of Labour - to promote employment inclusion in the ordinary labour market and to increase subsidies for this in line with the degree and type of disability with priority for persons with special difficulties; all this revision of active employment policies in a working group already set up with the Autonomous Communities and the social partners for the elaboration of the Spanish Active Employment Support Strategy 20212024. We hope in the amendment that this revision of active employment policies will allow for an increase in these subsidies depending on how the interprofessional minimum wage is also increasing - is it our intention to continue to increase? - an increase in these subsidies up to 60%, giving priority to people with special difficulties in entering the world of ordinary work. This is a commitment of our parliamentary group and a step further on the necessary path towards a truly inclusive society, by which we can work in Unity; a society in which all people enjoy the support...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u71	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u72	The corporal. ... that they need for their participation in all areas of human activity. Having accepted this amendment, we will vote in favour of GNP. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to discuss a non-law proposal of pure common sense, a proposal that urges our Government to increase subsidies to special employment centres to compensate for the rise in the minimum wage and thus ensure its viability. But we have a problem, a serious problem, because when we have not yet been able to adequately compensate the special employment centres for the latest rise in the SMI, it seems that we have new climbs on the horizon, which can complicate things much more if possible. Let us remember that the minimum wage was increased by a real decree in 2020 by 5.56% and that the increase of 22% in 2019 has already led to a net reduction in employment of between 0.6 and 1.1 %. It is absolutely clear that this rise in the SMI has had a fatal impact on the lower-paid workers' group, on the young people's group who saw the reduction in their contract working hours and the reduction in employment for them and also - of course not - for the workers in the special employment centres, especially for disabled workers in the special employment centres. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know the effects that could lead to further increases in the SMI when a million citizens have not yet regained their jobs, when there are more than half a million who continue in ERTE and almost as many self-employed people who have not yet been able to reactivate their businesses. That is why we are extremely concerned about the decision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy in this regard. We are concerned about all the companies and all the workers, but especially about the ones we are dealing with here today: the special employment centres. We are concerned because they are the most jobs they generate for people with disabilities in this country and because, if the compensation of the State is not automatically raised and in the same percentage as the SMI, they will be inviable, inviable, ladies and gentlemen!, and we cannot afford that. We cannot afford this because, thanks to them, many people with disabilities have learned a profession and can lead a normal working life and because many more special employment centres are still needed for all persons with disabilities to have the option of developing professionally, the option of training themselves to be able to do tasks that are increasingly more complex and specialized, necessary for personal evolution, that can facilitate their transition towards full integration, but not on a purely human or moral issue, ladies and gentlemen, but because it is their right, a right that recognizes them in the Spanish Constitution itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the special employment centres need our help in order to remain viable and profitable, to meet all the challenges they face and to be able to face the removal of physical barriers, the training of their workers, their care and their support. No special employment centre will have a future if it is not profitable, and if there is no future for the special employment centres, neither will there be for the most vulnerable workers of all, those for whom it is almost impossible to find a job that dignifies and integrates them, those for which a job is indispensable in order to feel more useful, more equal, more self-sufficient, more free and more person. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot in any way allow this important part of our own country to be expelled from the labour market. It is, sincerely, regrettable that the only thing the Government has done so far to compensate the special employment centres, following the latest rise of the SMI and with which it is falling because of the pandemic, has been to draw an absolutely inadequate ministerial order. Frankly, it would seem that you have no interest in supporting special employment centres, particularly if you are of a private nature; just as you have no interest in supporting special education schools. And it would seem that they will do nothing to protect them so as to impose their criteria, that they understand that no private company that receives a subsidy from the State, however commendable it is the social function it performs, has for profit, as if it took away some merit from what really matters, that is that people with disabilities can be trained and carry out productive and paid work that facilitates their integration into society and the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be us who say that the SMI should not be increased in the future, I hope we could soon be in a position to do so, but if you are going to do so, if you decide to do so, at least do not leave businesses alone to face this difficulty, let alone the special employment centres, because any job is better than unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. Always and in all circumstances, any job is better than unemployment. We are not only going to support this non-legislative proposal, but we want to take a step further by calling for the necessary mechanisms to be put in place for the rise of the subsidy to special employment centres to be increased proportionally and automatically to the rise of the SMI, so that in no case can any disabled worker be caught up in this cause of unemployment and social exclusion. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. In Spain there are 1,876,900 people with disabilities. Only 34 per cent of them are active; however, the employment rate between persons with disabilities and persons without disabilities reaches 41 points of difference, so they deserve special attention in order to comply with the right to work, recognized in the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as it represents the stepping stone for their inclusion and the basis for their personal and social development. Spain has 2022 special employment centres which employ almost 100,000 people with disabilities, and is undoubtedly its main employer. The staffing of the special employment centres has grown by more than 7.5 % since 2013, especially in the special employment centres for entrepreneurship. For those who demonise the private initiative - ladies and gentlemen of the left, who are coming for you - I ask you to take note. And 70% of contracts concluded with persons with disabilities are also carried out by special employment centres. The rise in the inter-professional minimum wage in 2019 and 2020 meant for special centres an increase in the labour cost per worker between 22 and 27 %. This, combined with their committed productivity and the tight margins with which they work, jeopardized the livelihood of the special employment centres and thus the employability of thousands of people with disabilities. The Plural Parliamentary Group has already brought to the debate an initiative identical to this one last November in the Committee on Social Rights and Disability. In order to alleviate the effects of the rise of the minimum wage to the special employment centres, it proposed to increase the contribution of the central government to these centres up to 60% of the interprofessional minimum wage for each worker. And it was approved. The initiative went ahead with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group which increased the contribution of 60 to 70 % of the minimum wage for each worker in the special employment centres to alleviate the costs caused by the circumstances COVID - health, safety and protection of workers - in the special employment centres. To this end, the parliamentary groups supporting the coalition government, Podemos and the Socialist Group, which voted against this rise, i.e. those of the social shield voted no, and what is more serious is that six months later the government, which proclaims not to leave anyone behind, has fulfilled the mandate that this House gave it: to increase the percentage of the minimum wage of workers in the special employment centres up to 70%. In addition, this afternoon, the left-wing groups are amending this GNP and reducing the applicant's claim by 70%, which was approved by this House and as a mandate to the Government, to 55% of the contribution of the inter-professional minimum wage. Mr. Pagès, are you really going to succumb? Are you really going to lower your expectation? Are you going to allow us to break what we agreed here in the House, many of the parliamentary groups that we gave a mandate to the government? The People's Parliamentary Group cannot give up its amendment because we still believe that the 70% contribution is fair and that it is also the only one that can alleviate the effects of the immediate loss of 30% of employability for people with disabilities. It therefore needs to be put into effect. We have also tabled other amendments, such as the one to comply with 2% of the reserve of jobs in contracts with private companies, measures to support the ageing of the staff of special employment centres, and the adoption of the law on cognitive accessibility, which is necessary as a support for the roaming measures of job integration, to support dual vocational training for persons with disabilities. But in this case, we want to remind you that it is also necessary to review that aid does not discourage employment because this is the best tool for inclusion of people with disabilities. Of course, what the People's Parliamentary Group regrets is that seven consecutive years of job creation for persons with disabilities have been broken by the policies of the Socialist and Communist parties, which is undoubtedly proof that every time the left comes to the Government, employment comes out of the window. [[Applauds]] We reached the record number of 354,991 contracts in 2018 thanks to the policies of the People's Party and 225,000 more people with disabilities affiliated with Social Security. I believe that we have a vocation as a government, as a service, and that it also supports our management. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pedraja Sainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u78	Thank you very much, President. Today, we are discussing in this plenary session a non-law proposal by Junts per Catalunya, in which we are talking about the subsidy that special employment centres receive from the State. In these centres, people with different degrees of disability get a job, which implies the inclusion of these people with disabilities in the ordinary labour market. On many occasions, for these people with disabilities, this job is a salary that is a livelihood for them and even often it is a livelihood for their entire family, the only subsistence in fact. Many of these centres during the pandemic carried out commendable work by always prioritizing the human side on the economic side, maintaining their jobs and prioritizing those people to keep bringing income to their homes trying not to benefit from ERTE. Thus, thanks to the measures implemented by the Government of Spain, thanks also to ICO loans and 5 % subsidy, this human and social work was able to prevail above the economic one by always prioritizing, as he said, the work of improving the lives of these workers and all their families. For this reason, from the Socialist Group we want to thank the commendable work they do, we want to thank the work they do and, above all, the work they do, that unique social and labour work, which improves the lives of many people and plays a role of inclusion in society and in the labour market. During 2019, there was an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage of approximately 23%, and the Government of Spain, given the expectation that it could cause job losses or even that these centres could not be viable, decided to increase subsidies to these special employment centres by 5%, from 50% to 55%, for all those with a high degree of disability. In 2020 there was again an increase in the inter-branch minimum wage of approximately 5 or 6 %, and that is why the Government of Spain decided to increase this subsidy by 5 %, from 50 to 55 %. In addition, a pandemic, as we all know, has emerged, and it was therefore felt that the jobs of these centres could really be jeopardised. They are people, as I mentioned earlier, who need to be included in society, and these centres carry out that inclusion work. For this reason, the Government of Pedro Sánchez decided to re-implement this measure. In 2021 it was again implemented, thus showing that the progressive Government, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, is committed to these centres, is committed to maintaining all the jobs that these centres have and to helping all those families who are in a vulnerable situation and who deserve that assistance from their State. [[Applauds]] From the Socialist Group we believe that this measure, this increase of 5%, from 50% to 55%, should be a stable measure, it should continue in a stable way for the coming years. That is why we have tabled an amendment in which we call for this increase in the subsidy to be maintained in a stable way, and we also call for the study and revision of these subsidies to be encouraged to these centres through a working table which already exists with social workers, with the autonomous communities themselves, and for the increase of this subsidy to be studied, especially for those with a higher degree of disability, up to 60 or 70 %, so that people with a higher degree of disability can be included in the labour market and even encourage the creation of new jobs for these people. We would like to see consensus on such an important issue, and we would like all political groups to be able to agree to this. This is a human measure, it is not a political measure and we believe that this should not be a political trench. We know that there are going to be groups that continue in their political trench, we are very clear, but hopefully we could all be able to agree, to reach a human and personal agreement and to fight for one, which is what people want us to do, to fight for their well-being and to improve their lives and to get this proposal approved. I would like to express my gratitude to the political groups that have treated this amendment with great affection and to Junts per Catalunya that hand extended for negotiation and that they have accepted the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u79	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. This non-legislative proposal, which was registered at the beginning of the 14th Legislature, addresses one of the main problems of the few 2100 special employment centres - and going down - which, as has been pointed out, play a key role in social integration, providing work for people with disabilities who have low employability, which is much greater when it comes to people with special intellectual difficulties, mental illness or significant impairments above 65%. The acute anguish of the special centres stems from the difficulties in maintaining productivity levels and, therefore, from their ability to generate income and bear wage costs. The rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, which is the one that the vast majority of workers receive, has broken down the accounts of the special centres, exacerbating their difficulties, suffocating themselves and subjecting many of them to limit situations, much more so with the health emergency of the coronavirus, which has collapsed their billing throughout 2020 and what ranges from 2021. It is an extreme situation that justifies the increase of public subsidies to percentages such as those that are urged in this parliamentary initiative and their reinforcement by accompanying measures. In this respect, as Mrs Saavedra, spokesman for the United Nations Group, pointed out, we can remember that last November the percentage of funding, from 50 to 55 % of the SMI, for the maintenance of jobs for people with severe disabilities in special employment centres was increased extraordinarily by 2020, but the funds agreed between the Ministry of Labour and the Autonomous Communities at the last Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs are insufficient, I repeat, insufficient, look where it is being looked at. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u81	Thank you so much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me to start with a special reminder to Anna and Olivia, two girls from my island, Tenerife, who did not die, killed them by their father, and killed them to harm their mother, Beatriz. From here I want to launch Beatriz The commitment - I know that of all of you - that we will continue to work so that vicarious violence and gender-based violence are not the scourge that you are being in this country, especially in the last few months, and demand, above all to the Government, that as long as there is the slightest chance of finding Anna or the murderous father be made. [[Applauds]] On today's issue, I wanted to say that we have a lot to do for people with functional diversity. On the 16th, the National Day of Early Care was celebrated and collective events were held throughout Spain - in the Canary Islands,many of them -. People with this functional diversity, with different abilities need it from school, institutes or university, and so on, they still don't have the accessibility and all the support they need in that early care. It has to be a state agreement. Secondly, even when they arrive at this vocational training or university, in many cases with many difficulties, then the world of work comes and we find that it is practically impossible to integrate into work. The employment centres have done exceptional work in this country. Of course, I will support this proposal, but I would especially like to recall two employment centres in Fuerteventura where I was almost a year and a half ago. One, it was a chicken-egg farm that served the hotels; the other, an industrial laundry that washed the sheets and towels of the hotels. Unfortunately, Fuerteventura is still closed, as are those employment centres I have come to talk about here. The circumstances in the Canary Islands are different and, even if they are a chicken-egg farm or an industrial laundry where people with disabilities worked, economic activity has not recovered. I conclude by saying that this proposal is very good for me, not for law, but we have a long way to go. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u83	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u84	Mr. President, Mr. Guztioi. Our group in general is in favour of increasing aid to special employment centres, which is the subject of this non-legislative proposal. Firstly, because of the special difficulty in accessing employment of some specific groups of people with disabilities, intellectual disability, mental illness, cerebral paralysis, autistic spectrum disorders, etc.; secondly, because of the status of centres of special employment of social initiative. But in the debate on this non-legislative proposal there is a fundamental problem. The need for these centres is beyond doubt, they play a social role, but at the same time there is a risk, which is to perpetuate a situation and not give real and effective exits to people who should be in normal companies or in the Administration doing their job. Everything that evolves can do it in a positive or negative way, and in the case of the figures of the special employment centres, which originally had a good approach - I do not say that it is in all cases; there are companies in the third sector that, at least in Euskal Herria, work well, and I am not talking about them -, the initial concept ends up seriously deteriorating. In this way, from the beginning, what should have been a permanent exemption measure has been transformed, even in some cases, into a juicy business for some private companies, with all that implies. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the General Disability Act says that the main objective of special employment centres is to provide workers with disabilities with productive and paid work appropriate to their personal characteristics and to facilitate their integration into the ordinary labour market, not to operate as productive enterprises, which is what happens in many cases. Sometimes we face a big business where disability matters little, they don't take it into account. If we want a real and effective job placement, special employment centres should not be productive enterprises, but the opposite: the link, the link for people with disabilities to land in ordinary enterprises. We would then be talking about equality, without underestimating the person with disabilities, while contributing to making society more aware of the value of persons with disabilities. We believe that it is necessary to pay attention to the administration, which should be the first to comply with the law and integrate disabled people into its bodies through that 2% which is not carried out in the private enterprise, although it is doubly serious that it is so in the administration. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u85	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, which aims in some way to update that percentage of aid or subsidy received by special employment centres and other centres in proportion to the minimum interprofessional wage for the employment of persons with disabilities and also to extend this type of aid over time and to encourage them to be permanent in nature. Let me give a little thought to what are the special employment centres, which are regulated by Law 1/2013, as some have anticipated before. They are centres that base their activity on ensuring paid employment for persons with disabilities and are also a privileged means of inclusion. These centres are entrusted with a certain type of aid which facilitates the employment inclusion of these persons: subsidies or loans for recruitment; adaptation of jobs; removal of all barriers to their access, mobility, communication or understanding of production centres; the possibility of establishing themselves as self-employed workers or allowances in social security quotas, i.e. a list of aid aimed precisely at facilitating the employability of these persons with disabilities. But it is also emphasized in this law that employment centres are essentially those which must meet certain conditions with which they are identified as essential elements of public utility for this purpose and which lack profit. Therefore, allow me to begin my intervention by making a small precision. Mrs Saavedra, employment centres are not just private centres, they are different. I'm making a second point. When we talk about employment centres, when we talk about aid, we are talking about a competition title of the State, which is 149.1.7, which is that of labour legislation, in which case, moreover, its implementation is already transferred to the autonomous communities on a broad and general basis; in the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as a result of Article 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomy and, in particular, through a decree, 1441/2010, of 5 November, by which active employment policies are transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Therefore, and without prejudice to the fact that the subsidies correspond to the general State budgets, consideration must also be given to the limited nature of these aids and decontextualisation if we limit the aid to the minimum interprofessional wage as if it were the main or nuclear element of aid for the employment of persons with a certain degree of disability. Because in this context - let me point out this out - for example, within the framework of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but it will certainly happen in others, there are other types of aid, not only those relating to the maintenance of the job and the coverage of part of the labour cost. There are also other types of aid in the Basque Country: aid for investment generating stable employment involving indefinite recruitment or those which are to be converted into indefinite contracts of a temporary nature; aid for the budgetary balance and viability of special employment centres, because they are 50 % of the negative budgetary balance of the year, with a limit of EUR 60,000; aid for professional support units, which aim to finance the salary and social security costs of these persons who assist or facilitate the activity of persons with disabilities, and thus a number of other aids which are those forming a broad group implementing the possibility of maintaining or creating employment for persons with disabilities. That is why I want to highlight in some way the role not only of the State, but mainly of the autonomous communities and also of the local entities involved in this area. That is why it is necessary to point out that in order to form, design and establish such policies, it is necessary, I would say, to involve these autonomous communities. Let me therefore point out two issues that you have commented on and that it is important to highlight. One, that these aids should be allocated, because of the special difficulties of access to employment of certain specific groups, to these people with special difficulties: people with mental illness, cerebral palsy, autistic spectrum disorder, etc., which in the case of Euskadi group no more than almost 57% of the group. Secondly, not all the centres are equal, but the special employment centres of social initiative, which constitute at least 90% in the Basque Country, are those which must be granted this type of aid. In other words, we should discriminate in the aid to whom we direct it and how we direct it, and in that design it claimed the role of the autonomous communities. For this reason, I repeat, in agreement with the GNP, we believe that there is a need for a broader development of the context of the GNP.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u87	Your time is up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u88	... within a broader spectrum of support to the disability employment community. Thank you very much and apologize, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u89	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by referring to the fact that today is 22 June 2021, which the Government of Spain has pardoned the coups, but it has not done so on my behalf! In addition, we are going to talk about an initiative whose content refers to two very important issues: the situation of persons with disabilities linked to the employment situation. We are talking about the socio-occupational inclusion of persons with disabilities, considering that employment is a fundamental tool for anyone in our society to have access to a decent life. We must therefore take into account the situation of persons with disabilities, who are living in a situation of vulnerability when it comes to finding employment. The 2019 data says that the unemployment rate for these people was 10 points higher than for people without disabilities. In other words, this group, which already has a significantly lower activity rate, is also at a significantly higher unemployment rate. Of course, these are added difficulties to which any person has, which can be linked to sex, age, educational level, training; to all this is added the special difficulty of being in a situation of disability. In addition, the labour participation of this group is conditioned by the intensity of the disability it suffers. I give you an example: people with hearing disabilities had higher rates of activity; instead, people with mental disabilities had a lower rate of activity. That is the context we face. In the face of this, we are talking about the great work done by the special employment centres, centres that give work to persons with disabilities, centres that employ more or less 70 per cent of persons with disabilities. We must bear in mind that the basis of these workers' wages is the inter-professional minimum wage and that the Administration is responsible for contributing 50% of that wage in order to promote the inclusion of these people. What has happened to the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage promoted by the Government? That the labour costs of these special employment centres rose by 29% for each employed disabled worker, because the government raised the minimum wage, but did not proportionally increase its contribution, which continues to rise by 50%. Therefore, we believe that the solution is to accompany the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage with the increase in the percentage to be covered by these special employment centres so that in the end they do not see improved their chances of developing their work properly. The initiative we are discussing proposes to increase this subsidy from 50% to 60%. From Citizens we consider this to be an appropriate measure, because the minimum wage is increased and, in parallel, the subsidy to special employment centres is increased, as these see their resources wasted. [[The lady]] In addition, we must insist that it is important that we be aware that the economic sectors are interrelated, that any legal or economic change can unbalance or put other collectives in difficulty for whatever reason, in this case those collectives who face greater difficulties in accessing the labour market. In Citizens, we believe that a comprehensive strategy must be developed that also includes socio-occupational inclusion actions in which, in addition to taking disability into account, other factors that undermine the employability of people, such as the social environment, age, deterioration and exceptional needs with which they can be found. And the ultimate objective of employment policies for persons with disabilities is to improve the employability of this group and that it is always possible, in addition, to move towards the ordinary enterprise, favoring the inclusion of work in it. Here we have very important challenges; relevant challenges related to training; relevant challenges related to employment, integration, inclusion in ordinary enterprises. In this case, I believe that in order to achieve these objectives we must unite our forces, and on that path they will find our parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u92	Nice late and happy 22nd June. We are presented with a GNP, which we are going to vote in favour, calling on the Government to increase the resources allocated to special employment centres, particularly in those cases where it is deemed appropriate to compensate for the increase in the inter-branch minimum wage with public aid to ensure the viability of these centres. First of all, we want it to remain out of any doubt that we value the special employment centres, that we recognize that they have a clearly social and inclusive function of people with special difficulty, and he noted that they have a clearly social and inclusive function without a desire for profit, because when you look for the economic benefit - that there are them -, when there is labour exploitation - that there are them -, when the reason for their existence has been diverted from their social work to become business - that there are them - we already talk about something else and it is unacceptable. These centres also exist and these aids should not go to them. I say this because they exist and we already have a GNP in this regard. On the other hand, we do support the increase in resources to those special employment centres specifically targeted, I repeat, specifically to the group of persons with special difficulties in guaranteeing their right to work, i.e. persons with cerebral palsy, persons with mental illness or persons with intellectual disabilities, persons with a recognised degree of disability equal to or greater than 33 % or with physical or sensory disabilities with a recognised degree of disability equal to or greater than 65 %. Apart from these special social protection groups, integration must be in the world of ordinary enterprises, public enterprises or cooperatives without differentiation from any other collective. That is true integration. That is to say, while special employment centres are essential tools for creating employment for people with severe disabilities, workers with disabilities who do not prevent them from having equal labour productivity as any other worker should not suffer discrimination or inequality. For example, we must end the wage gap between disabled and non-disabled people, with wages almost 20% lower than those of the rest of the working population, according to the Observatory on Disability and the Labour Market in Spain, and we must intervene here. Work inspections should review, through specific campaigns, compliance with the reserve obligation of 2 % of disabled workers for companies with more than 50 workers; this is not being done in any way and it is important that it be done, because there is true integration. We must ensure the real integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market by applying to the ordinary company the same bonuses that apply to a special employment centre, with the guarantee that the disabled worker will receive the same salary as the rest of the workers. But, without being what we say is unimportant, let's go to what we are dealing with in this GNP. As we said, the collective to which this GNP is directed is very vulnerable to labour discrimination and therefore cannot be governed by the laws of the market. We therefore share the need for the support that this group requires for its necessary social function in order to promote and maintain the right to work. In special employment centres, without a desire for profit, the rise of the SMI must be compensated, or the salary supplemented, until it reaches the SMI. It must be made clear and without any doubt, although it is true that last November 13th the increase in subsidies for the maintenance of jobs was published, up to 55 % of the minimum inter-professional wage for people with special difficulties - to be noted -, that as stated in the text this increase is extraordinary. For this reason, and according to the Dincat, in order to ensure the sustainability of an indispensable sector, we ask, on the one hand, that resources be consolidated and extended indefinitely and, on the other hand, that a transfer of these resources be configured to the Generalitat de Catalunya and to the rest of the administrations - both local and other communities - that have competences in the same field. Thank you very much and, as I said before, happy June 22nd. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u94	Yes, Madam President. We accept the amendment tabled jointly by Podemos and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u95	All right. Thank you very much. The non-legislative proposal will be voted on in terms of the incorporation of this amendment. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the non-taxation of the families of media and low income. [[File number 162/000697]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u96	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning not raising taxes on middle-income and low-income families. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party has presented this initiative, which has a clear objective: to avoid a new tax haven, to prevent the pocket of the Spaniards from having a strong impact again by the current Spanish Government. What do we ask in this initiative? Three things very simple and easy to understand. The first is to delete from the document sent to Europe - the National Reform Programme - the deduction by joint taxation on the income tax of natural persons. What we are asking is for the Brussels Government to be notified within 30 days. Furthermore, on the third point - which is a self-amendment - we ask that taxes not be raised again - as is currently being done - to SMEs and families, since they are hardly going to get out of the crisis. Why this initiative? Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that two days before we voted here in Madrid last 4 May, we were aware, with those arts that the government of Pedro Sánchez usually proposes, which had been sent to Europe The National Reform Programme, in which, curiously, on page 341 - which is binding, despite what this government says is binding - Brussels was told that the joint tax deduction of the tax on natural persons would be abolished. This is an issue that does not affect the rich - as this government has usually said - no. It affects 3.7 million Spanish families, mainly working class, middle class and above all, ladies and gentlemen, pensioners, because this government is forgotten or does not understand that especially women, in the last stretch of their lives, have difficulty finding work. Therefore, this is a measure that clearly favours families in which a unit does not work, especially when they are pensioners. And they don't tell us later that this only happens in Spain, because it happens in Italy, it happens in Germany and it happens in France. There are reductions of this kind. Well, to understand it clearly, I'm going to set an example of the condition. In a pension of 1250 euros - which per year is 17 500 euros - what the Government proposes with this measure is to remove basically an extra payment; instead of fourteen payments, the pensioners will receive thirteen, because 1000 euros will have to be allocated to them to pay the income tax of the natural persons. Faced with this, which involved a real attack on the pocket of the Spaniards, how did the government react? Mrs. Calviño, who was said to be the serious person of the government, came out in a trumpet. Well, Mrs Calviño entered the select group of the mythomaniacs of this government, of whom they compulsively lie. He said, "No, it is a mistake; and he repeated it desperately." Well, ladies and gentlemen, having a thousand and two hundred advisers, it is hard for you to understand how a mistake that, nothing more and nothing less, amounts to EUR 2 billion in the pockets of the Spaniards can be made. [[Applauds]] But the mistake was no longer wrong, because when you sent the reform of the National Reform Programme on 16 June, what a coincidence that the same error appeared again on page 341; that is, you lied, as usual in this government, to all the Spaniards. In the second line of fire, what did Minister Montero say? No, this is an issue that experts are studying. Look, when I hear this government talking about experts, I start shaking. When there had to be experts, who were in the COVID, there were no experts; and the result we already know, more than 125,000 dead, ladies and gentlemen, with an important part of the responsibility of this Government. You listen to the experts, but when you feel like it or feel good, because in the last question you are asking yourself, the removal of masks, there are many experts who say that you still have to study it, and you have decided to simply delete them on June 24 to see how you cover other important issues, right? In short, ladies and gentlemen, the expert group is a mere excuse, because this government has taken the decision, and therefore informs Europe that they are going to abolish the joint tax deduction. There is a third excuse, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the AIReF had recommended it. The President of the AIReF has also recommended to you, I would like to remind you, that you are making adjustments because there will be a structural deficit of 50 billion by 2024, and you will have the honour to increase it by 15 billion more before entering this crisis. You are genuine experts in the usual, in raising taxes on citizens and in complicating life. They did so in 2010: they lowered salaries to officials, frozen pensions, abolished pharmaceutical costs and left debts that it is better not to remember, 100 billion deficits - which they hid, by the way - and 75 billion bills, and up they went out the back door and they didn't even have the courage to extend budgets, because that involved making decisions, and they left them to the next. Now the same happens again, you are proposing an increase, at the dawn of the fact that the fiscal pressure is lower in Europe, of 70 billion euros. They have already proposed in the 2020 budget a significant increase in taxes and tell Europe that we are going to raise diesel taxation, social security contributions and autonomous contributions, the abolition of joint tax deduction and payment for the use of state roads. This is what you propose. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you will now come to the rostrum, and we already know the arguments, but there is one that is indisputable: Socialist Party governments have assumed this country, if you make a balance sheet, ten million unemployed; and People's Party governments, with a completely different policy from yours, have assumed ten million jobs. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendment put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. I support Mr Rego's amendment and say one thing to you with the cordiality that you and I have: they like to collect, they like to come here and collect; to collect, dialectically, I say it very clearly. Look, November 24, 2013, a newspaper like El Mundo, not the Workers' World, El Mundo says: Almost forty tax increases in the first part of Rajoy's legislature. Changes to increase tax pressure occupy more than 2,000 pages of the BOE. Government of PP. The PP is the party with the most tax increases in the fiscal history of Spain. Then they come here, and they make it easy for us, actually, they make it easy for us. But today I agree with you and your proposal. I understand that joint taxation should not be abolished or, if it is subprime, that all those people, especially those with lower incomes, should be compensated for it. You have to do either one thing or the other and you can do it. It was done by the Valencian Government. In 2017, the Valencian government lowered the IRPF to 1.6 million Valencians who earned less than EUR 500 000 a year and raised the IRPF to revenues that earned more than EUR 70 000. Tax justice, fiscal escalation, just what you don't do in the Madrid Community. But, I insist, I agree with you. With regard to the reduction of charges, sometimes the important thing is not that there are more or less charges; the important thing is the final result of that Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u100	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u101	And if not, ask the Valencians, which cost us their government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group and to defend the amendment, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Let me read you the headline of a January 2017 newspaper: Rajoy has raised all taxes since he arrived in Moncloa five years ago. The PP re-starts the legislature with more tax burden after promising to lower it. If in any way he is a specialist, the People's Party is to do the opposite in the government of what they promised in the opposition. Of course, by the way, this is not an exclusive right-wing behavior. In any case, the PP always uses demagogic and populist fiscal policy with a generic 'not to raise taxes' or 'to lower taxes' behind which, easily, regressive and antisocial policies are hidden, because we all know that the key is to raise or'to lower taxes, for whom? We are clear that the Government's proposal to eliminate joint taxation is prejudicial, above all, to lower incomes, and we therefore bet that it be maintained. To associate this with the number of ministries seems to us to be of the most elementary and low populism, very much in line with the PP. That's why we've amended it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u105	Thank you very much, President. Mr Suárez, you could reproduce the speech - you are President of the Commission - that I made to this very proposal of the People's Party, defended at the time by Mrs Carolina Spain. We do not agree with the abolition of joint taxation. We believe it would be a mistake; that is what we have said, and that is how we will vote when any legislative proposal comes to this House. Having said that, I also informed you that there was a clear position of the Government, that I had no intention of doing so, but we could have voted on your proposal as long as there was no demagogy. When I saw the self-amendment they were putting forward, I thought: well, let's see if they have removed the demagogy component from the amendment and improved it, because we would also be obliged to vote on it; there is no danger. There is no danger because they say: joint taxation is not going to be abolished and the government must compensate for the greatest revenue that this could entail by eliminating vice-presidency and ministries; Mr Suárez, you are a serious person, a serious politician, and you know that these 300 and millions of euros cannot compensate even if all ministers, ministers and vice-presidents are eliminated and only Mr Sánchez is left in charge of the government. We must avoid this kind of demagogy. We will therefore not support this initiative. Let us repeat the vote we have already taken in the Commission. When we want to talk about tax policy seriously, serenely and without demagogic burden we will have to defend certain approaches; instead, when they want to do it simply in the spirit of tearing down the government, whatever it is and with this more demagogic burden we will not be found. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. I fully share the substance of this non-law proposal of the People's Group and of its self-amendment to dismantle another colossal patronage of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, because in his numerous publications supervised by his head guru, Mr.Iván Redondo, he forgot to explain to the Spaniards that in the literature and in the graphics of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan new fiscal measures are promoted, new taxes and innovative collection formulas to give continuity to their confiscation policy on the vast majority of Spaniards and especially on those of the middle and lower classes. The reduction by joint taxation is not the only increase that includes the Recovery Plan. To eliminate joint taxation, we must add the rise in the diesel tax, the creation of a plastic packaging tax and a waste delivery tax, among other unique inventions in the process of being created, which will be unveiled at the beginning of next year in a white paper that should be entitled'manual to drain'. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to say that for a region such as Asturias, where fiscal pressure is by itself insurmountable, the measures of the State Government together with those of the Principality, also socialist counterparts, are leading us to ruin, deserting our productive fabric, causing the relocation of businesses and, in the most ageing region of Europe, the exodus of thousands of Asturians, a hundred thousand in what is going on for the century; 10% of the population. I therefore join in supporting the proposals put forward by Mr Suárez Lamata as an essential therapeutic measure to stop these new lootings on the pocket of all the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u109	Thank you, President. It is true that the effect of the joint declaration is questionable, since it may be beneficial for lower incomes; it is also true that it is based on a specific model of family, very patriarchal, in the sense that there is only one supporter and that the other spouse is considered a burden, when in reality it is a woman who is performing essential tasks, even if they are not remunerated. It's questionable, then. In any case, it should be considered as an integral reform of the IRPF that incorporates both the feminist perspective and progressive taxation, but what we do not share in any way is that anti-impost discourse that is translucent through the PNL. There's an ideological war on taxes, there's been some evidence. It is an ancient war, started almost fifty years ago and the result is seen: in this long cycle the income of capital has increased in relation to the income of labor. However, this has not always been the case. When you read tax stories in the United States, which now passes by being the spearhead of this liberalism, you come to discover that in a time the maximum marginal rate, that is, what was earned from a figure, taxed on an average of 81% during most of the 20th century, from the 1930s to the 1980s and even at some time came close to one hundred percent, which meant that large incomes, from a quantity, all that increased their income was destined for taxation. So, this has also been the history of taxation, but in this ideological war, in which today a good part or the entire Spanish right, including PP and VOX, participates, it seems that taxes only have as their destination to go down. Even, there are broadcasters of this anti-tax policy among many youtubers; this is known and this anti-tax discourse is spread by ignoring in many cases that the very technology with which they disseminate these messages originates in a strong public investment, that the companies that make them reach their home phone line originate in many cases in public companies, then privatized, and that they are beneficiaries of many public services paid with these taxes. Therefore, we do not share this anti-tax discourse at all. Without taxes there would be no prosperity, no cooperation, no progress, and we cannot share that in any way.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u111	Thank you, President. Really, I think I'm in a time-trapped movie or a permanent deja vu, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. Week after week they bring us the same initiatives both to the plenary and to the Commissions, sometimes in the form of a motion and sometimes in the form of a GNP, but they continue to be the same with the same points urging the Government. Today they bring us a PNL whose points have already been discussed in this Congress as a subsequent motion for an inquiry to explain the rise in taxes and the autonomy of the autonomous communities, a motion which, by the way, they have amended and which had nothing to do with this inquiry, but in which they did ask, as today, to withdraw the proposal to abolish the reduction by joint taxation, and did not go forward. Some MP on that occasion already told him that this inquiry was due to an election period and the motion to a post-election period, and it seems that they continue in this period. Sometimes, it gives me the feeling that what they want is to scare people with the tax issue, as if they didn't have enough with what has been generated with the COVID. It seems to me that it is serious for a political party to pronounce itself in such a trivial way, and I have also told you, when talking about raising and lowering taxes because it seems that raising them is very bad and lowering them is very good, which is what they are transferring to society, which I believe is irresponsible because, how do they intend to cost the welfare state or to cost top quality public services? What they're pushing lately in general is that the contribution to the tax is smaller. Think about it. My group has already said this on that occasion: we are going to vote on futureables because what they want today is for us to vote on something that has not been approved since, as I know, the Law of the IRPF has not yet been amended, and what we also agree not to abolish the reduction of joint taxation, as we have in Basque. They're also doing a little demagogy, they're making a tax populist marketing flag because it seems that promising a tax drop gives them political revenue. You have rescued a measure from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that, as I said, has not been adopted. If you read it well, what is said there is that you undertake to analyze the thirteen recommendations made by the AIReF aimed at eliminating some deductions in IRPF and other taxes. I say to you again that, as far as I know, analysing does not mean either approving or adopting. In addition, they propose to compensate for this reduction with the removal of vice-presidents, entities and chiringuites, and you know that this is not possible, but it is demagogic. You, to justify this non-law proposal today, are based on a series of reforms that, as I have said, are reforms that many groups have criticized, above all, because they are unconcrete, because there is only one generic reference and we do not even know if they are going to be carried out, when, how and what they consist of. If we all think that there is a need for a change in the economic model, it will, of course, be necessary to change taxation, and any reform of taxation is complex and therefore it will be necessary to address it from a calm debate. That is why, even though I am in the opposition, I believe that we must be very careful. I think citizens have memories, and I think they're sick of being promised a lot of things, and then those promises stay in the trunk of memories. There are no simple solutions to complex issues, so I ask you to leave these simple slogans. We are not going to vote in favour of this GNP because we believe it is unwarranted, as the IRPF has not been changed to date and therefore the joint tax reduction has not been abolished. We are not going to support something that may or may not happen, but when the time comes we will take a decision on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u113	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is 22 June 2021 and the Government of Spain has pardoned the coupsmen. From this rostrum I say no, not in my name. Let's talk about something that worries the Spaniards. Let us talk about millions of Spaniards who are concerned about the way in which the government's next fiscal splendour will come, whether through concord or through magnanimity, because pardoning the Spaniards is not going to touch us. Before the pandemic we find the so-called Tobin rate and Google rate, those taxes on digital services and on financial transactions that have ended up paying customers, users, in short, the Spanish. Now, in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the Government incorporates several tax increases and uses all possible tools: the creation of new fees, the elimination of bonuses and even the tool of error, that elimination of the joint tax reduction that Deputy Minister Calviño called error. It's really outrageous. To whom does this government lie, to the Spaniards telling them that this was a mistake that will not take effect, or to Brussels telling them that it will get that collection by elimination but that it does not intend to implement it? Because, ladies and gentlemen who support the government, you are sending a plan to Brussels with a mistake of that size that affects millions of Spaniards and their way of taxation, and what you want me to say to them, to me it is not acceptable, to the majority of Spaniards it is not acceptable, to my parliamentary group it is not acceptable. And it is not acceptable because this government, which is the largest, which has had the most advisers and ministers in history, sends a plan to Brussels, a plan on which the European funds depend, with a mistake. But of course, that is just one more drop in a sea of inefficiency and opportunism, because this week, after announcing to us the pardons, you have gone out with another extraordinary Council of Ministers to announce not only the withdrawal of masks, but also the lowering of VAT from light to the Spaniards, and this is an insult to our intelligence. We have been asking for months - myself since January 2020, through a non-legislative proposal - from my parliamentary group for a reduction in VAT on the bill for light. You said if Brussels, if Europe, if potatoes, if you couldn't... Don't be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen. The pardons must be the hand of a saint, the pardons arrive and the discounts arrive. Thanks to the pardons, the Spaniards will have to thank you for paying less on the bill of light. The fiscal policy that we propose from Citizens is part of the drastic reduction of inefficient and unproductive public spending that only raises public debt to unabated levels, and goes through the fight against evasion and tax opacity. A fiscal policy that Spain needs to be the right one and that it is also able to demonstrate to the Spaniards that paying taxes serves something, because people need to see that their taxes are well managed and well spent. Stop demanding and pressuring citizens without having previously campaigned to put an end to the waste of public spending on an elephant administration and government, among other things. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to reform our tax system in line with the new ways of obtaining income and to pursue profits where they are generated. The reform that my parliamentary group is defending also goes so far as to understand that we must invest in rebuilding the middle class and the working class by enhancing economic growth, creating quality jobs and business growth. I conclude, President, by saying that the Spaniards deserve a government that does not lie to us, a government that does not humiliate us and a responsible government that does not use taxes as a smokescreen to try to cover up pardons or as blackmail. If anyone deserves a pardon in Spain today, we are the ones who comply with the law, comply with the Constitution and pay our taxes religiously. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] The PRESIDENT: Thank you, Mrs Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u114	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Happy June 22nd, everyone. I'll be brief. The truth is that we have had a lot of doubts as to whether to intervene in this People's Party's GNP because it seemed to us a little sluggish, in line with some of the GNPs and motions of the People's Group that we have discussed in these last plenarys and committees on economic and fiscal policies. They are right to say that there could be a political space for a civilized right in the style of German Christian democracy, for example, to appear in this Parliament and propose economic and tax political initiatives of right-wing, liberal, which confront the economic policies of the PSOE and Podemos government. But you are not, you are dedicated to presenting initiatives that often rouse ridicule and that is why we wanted to come up here to explain it. And why are they blushing with ridicule? Because the title of the initiative - I open quotes - 'do not raise taxes on low- and middle-income families' - close quotes -, has nothing to do with the operative part of the GNP in its first wording, nothing to see, since they then propose to withdraw the proposal for a reduction by joint taxation, as well, in generic. As I suppose they were ashamed, they finally tabled an amendment and added one last point in the sense of not raising taxes on families, because they were ashamed to come up here, in this plenary, with a title of an initiative that has nothing to do with the operative part. In addition, the explanatory statement mixes topics that have nothing to do with it. They mix the higher income tax with the joint taxation of low-income marriages, mix it with the abolition of public office and also remove the corporate tax. The abolition of corporation tax, one of its flags to lower the tax to the rich, which is what really moves them, to defend the privileges to the usual. It is clear that our economic proposals have nothing to do with their own, nothing to do with them. We are in favour of a progressive tax system where the richest contribute more to the public finances, and contrary to their 2008 post-crisis austerity policies that they perpetrated with the approval of the Financial Stability Act, with that wretched minister called Montoro. In short, gentlemen of the PP, you have not presented this GNP to debate tax models, but to continue your campaign of harassment of the government. [[Rumors]] What happens is they end up throwing stones on their own roof because they end up making a fool of themselves. In the end, you, gentlemen of the PP, have ended up competing with VOX to see who presents the most 'carajillera' proposal. We are therefore not going to support this GNP. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u116	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Suárez. Faced with an initiative announced with such a declaration of good intentions'so as not to raise taxes on middle and low income families - we now remembered Mr Margall who appears in the title -', one has the naive temptation to believe them. I suppose it will be the beginning of the summer, or perhaps the beginning of the end of the pandemic, but believe me that I faced optimistic reading of your GNP, almost with the will of the convert. I had the good hope, look what things, to find some nail burning to hold me. Indeed, the Copernican shift that is taking place around taxation in most multilateral economic forums called for this optimism. As you know, the IMF has already pointed out the need to tax higher incomes more, something that has been echoed by President Biden in the United States. The OECD has been calling for a succession tax reform to reduce inequalities. Similarly, the OECD itself has requested a common minimum rate for corporate tax, which it has also requested in its last call G7, for example. Perhaps the PP might have felt challenged by the future of these debates, but the truth is no. Very soon one is disillusioned with this initiative when, from the first sentence, an ultra-manichean style full of insinuations is already used, I would say that almost obscene, such as, for example, the president forgot to tell the Spaniards, when not openly false accusations, such as that of Spain being the only country that has raised taxes, when fiscal behaviour has been very similar to that of the rest of European countries. Then one warns that the core of the initiative is to denounce what, on the basis of its reading, would seem to be an imminent elimination of joint tax deductions in the IRPF. To this end, they cite the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and refer to an annex of possible measures proposed at the time by the AIReF. I say this because the wrong style of its wording might lead to the view that it is a measure contemplated in component 28 of the plan. But of course, then one scratches and finds out no. I say it is well discovered, because they do not quote the AIReF at any time, nor that it is part of a list of proposals annexed more or less speculative. That's not a big deal. From its debate we move to an immediate implementation, and hence in a logical extension of its historical sequence to the solemn declaration of the social communist republic. Finally, the fact is that the elimination of joint taxation is a measure defended by tax experts as respectable as, for example, feminist mathematics María Pazos Morán, who warns how it can discourage the incorporation of women into the labour market. However, the current lower female participation also has many other factors, as the researcher herself warns. From my parliamentary group, we defend now and as long as its implementation cannot in any case result in an increase in taxes to the middle and lower classes. In fact, we call on the committee of experts appointed by the Government for this tax reform to take into account gender bias in all its dimensions. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the principle of fiscal progressiveness enshrined in the Constitution is absolutely irrefutable, and that is why the widespread increases in VAT announced by Mr Montoro on 11 July 2012 proved so unfair to us. That did affect the middle and lower classes, I'm sure you remember, Mr. Suárez. For the same reason, we reject the recent reduction of IRPF announced by Mrs Ayuso in Madrid, because we are talking about a reduction of just EUR 5 per year for low incomes - below EUR 12 000 per year - while high incomes will stop paying slightly more than EUR 508 per taxpayer per year. Compare you: 5 euros versus 508 euros. That is to say, it is 330 million euros a year that will cease to be collected in Madrid. If anyone thinks that there is any connection between this fall in collection and the fact that forty-one health centers have been closed down in the midst of the pandemic, he is very likely to be right. Perhaps the most powerful classes in this country, those that also defend and represent the PP, can afford to dispense from health centers, for that they already have their private insurance, happy them. I assure you, however, that the rest of us cannot afford it. That is why I ask you not to confuse yourselves and, above all, not to confuse people, Mr Suárez. Defend your friends, not only is it legal, but it is also legitimate, you are in your right. But please don't dress them like lizards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the GNP that the Group of the European People's Party has brought to us, as has already been said, was debated in the Committee on Finance on 1 June with our vote in favour, because it considers that raising taxes at this time of galloping destruction of our productive fabric, high unemployment rates and uncertainty is not the right thing to do. Although, look, today, as they already did with the masks, we are surprised by the Government of Spain with a few crumbs, partially pardoning the bill of light for some rich, not for all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we agree that it does not seem reasonable for the Government to include in its abstract recovery plan, thus, as a cover, the elimination of the tax benefit of the joint taxation option in the IRPF, among other reasons because the Government proposes this measure by distorting the conclusions of AIReF. In the spending review, the AIReF assesses that yes, that such tax benefit achieves the objective for which it was designed, that it is no other than to adapt the tax to the structure of the household income, especially in those households where almost all of the income is earned by a single collector and the household is low-income. The answer is yes, therefore, other considerations that the AIReF may offer in its analysis and evaluation may be additional information, but not the object of study. However, when it comes to exploring citizens' pockets - I am referring to extracting resources from them - the Government does not hesitate to gather those conclusions that can come from pearls, especially to our Minister of Finance, who does not allow the opportunity to make us look like a box to the minimum. Of course, to feed that bottomless well into which the government apparatus has become, a large budget is needed. However, when the AIReF proposes to the Minister that a comprehensive medium-term budgetary framework be developed for all public administrations or that more information be requested to promote transparency in fiscal and budgetary forecasts, then the Minister looks elsewhere. We are faced with an opportunistic government that, in order to eliminate tax benefits and collect for breathing, obeys to the feet of those who need it, but to balance the accounts, ensure the sustainability of pensions or reduce unnecessary public spending and other political fat insults us and calls us populists. Those of us who have worked in tax matters before we are here - as my colleague in the Committee on Finance, Rodrigo Jiménez, who is also a fiscal and autonomous adviser for the whole of our lives, has already explained very well - know that the main beneficiaries of joint taxation are single-parent families - an issue which Mr de Podemos and Mr de CUP have missed here - as is the case with widows with children, for example also pensioners who normally do not work and families who temporarily, because they do not find work, concentrate their incomes on a single collector. Can you imagine a widow mother with three younger children who has her job and a widow's pension that cannot benefit from joint taxation with her children because the minister feels that this damages the gender gap? I think it's the unintelligent genre to do that reflection. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Do you believe that in a low-income household joint taxation is a determining factor in not working a family member? In a cost-benefit analysis it would only be so if the reduction in the tax bill was greater than the compensation obtained by that work, and I assure you that is never the case. As for the second part of its GNP, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in which they talk about reducing superfluous expenditure, it is a measure that we carry in VOX in DNA and which is part of the economic programme of VOX, of timeless, of the usual. You, for example, in your programme for the general elections of 2016 - in which you won - did not speak this way, openly, already by those of 2019 there is some hint and we are glad that you have incorporated it into your ideal in this final deformity legislature. Our measures 35 and 36 of the 100 VOX measures speak of drastic reduction in political spending, elimination of posts and agencies duplicated by ideology or for any other reason, minimizing the number of advisers hired by the different public administrations, etc. However, I have to tell you that you, who do rule in autonomous communities, in municipalities - unlike us who do not yet rule - should preach with the example and have the opportunity also to atone for your sins and start by reducing the political fat, which you have a lot, in the autonomous communities in which you govern, where the average number of political bodies between councils and agencies that are not subject to average autonomy is 17.6. From 17.6 to 22 there is not much difference, so do not do as the communists who share what they do not have and who see the straw in the eye of others and the beam in theirs not. So you are very critical of the government that we are going to support you, but you are beginning to be austere where you have, at least today, the opportunity to do so, because works are love and not good reasons. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u120	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is that I understand you, it has to be frustrating. I understand your disgust, eighty-nine Members who have devoted hours of work, meetings, videoconferencing, letters in Spain in Brussels, and it has served you absolutely nothing, because today the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan is a reality in this country, despite its entire parliamentary group. What a piece of paper, gentlemen of the PP, you've done with the recovery funds, go to the piece of paper. [[Applauds]] Moreover, you have done so with the most important economic instrument that this country has had in its relationship with Europe since its accession to the European Union, and you have spent all this time putting obstacles from the first minute to the last. In this scenario, you come today to tell us about the rise in taxes to middle and low-income families, and I believe you, because you are a great understander. I believe that it is the most important group of understandings in this country in tax increases to middle and low families. They are so understood - other honourable Members have told me before - that they made thirty-and-a-half climbs in the year and a half: five IRPFs, two VATs, IBIs, assets, hydrocarbons, the environment, bank deposits, absolutely everything, all citizens, in all stages, and all self-employed and all businesses. That's your letter of representation when you talk about tax increases, Mr. Suárez Lamata. Besides, they curl the curl. They present an empty PNL, Mr Suárez Lamata, an empty PNL. In the programme of the Recovery Plan, under component 28, which is where the tax reform proposals that have been sent to Europe are, there is nowhere in that component 28 the reduction and elimination of joint tax deductions; nowhere in component 28, nowhere. There is therefore no government decision, no government proposal, nothing to be sent to Brussels, nothing to be compensated for because it does not exist, Mr Suárez Lamata. Your GNP is empty; it is so empty that you have had to amend yourself urgently so as not to make a mockery of this GNP, Mr Suárez Lamata. And this is painful. It is painful that the main opposition party treats fiscal proposals in this way and happens at a time when there is a significant public awareness. It is painful because we need fiscal awareness in this country, because we need to do fiscal pedagogy, because we need to defend taxes as the best tool to defend public services, because we need to work together against tax fraud, with fiscal transparency, because we need to push a single system in Europe. And that's what we do with this reform program. Of course, this reform programme contains a committee of experts, to make a diagnosis of our tax system, to make a diagnosis in this scenario and in the medium and long term. But there is no such elimination. Where do you get it? Indeed, an annex; an annex showing the gender impact of the plan. In this annex there are a number of recommendations that the AIReF makes - they do not like it - other recommendations of the AIReF yes, but not - among the thirteen tax benefits that the AIReF studies in that program recommends studying and analyzing how joint taxation affects and whether it can discourage the labour participation of the second taxpayer. There's nothing else. That's not in the tax reform, Mr. Suárez Lamata. However, they maliciously put it in the form of a reform done. What's your goal? Scared. They want to get to the families and the collectives and tell them that the government is going to raise taxes and that's where they meet their goal. Today he leaves without any kind of blush after saying the barbarity he has said here. There is no such elimination. If I may, this GNP is preventive; preventive for what? You've hung up on the brush at the approval of the fund. I would ask them to hold their shoulders and not to remain alone in the execution of the funds, because if they continue in that policy of mass destruction at the hands of the far right, this country no longer recognizes them. I encourage you to this consensus, to talk about real fiscal policies that we need right now, but not about the chaff that you have brought to the rostrum of this House today. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mr Suárez, does your parliamentary group accept the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u122	No, we don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u123	Thank you very much. The vote will take place on their terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u124	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's legislative initiatives to curb the threat of the ultra-right. The other two motions will be discussed tomorrow. Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning my speech by repeating what the spokesman of my parliamentary group, Mr Rufián, has said: 'I am telling you that this speech has no more purpose than to try to reflect and see if we can reach common suspicions'. But I also want to start with the same sentence with which I finished my first intervention today: fascism, the extreme right Franco, and water. [[Applauds]] Why? Because they want us in the gutters, they want us drowned in the sea, trapped in the CIEs, inside the closet, deported, obedient, silent, squeaky, beaten up, murdered in the homes, raped in the fields of planting, without papers, etc. [[Rumors]] Milton Barbosa, one of the founders of the Unified Black Movement of Brazil, created during the Brazilian military dictatorship, says that the left took a long time to actively position themselves in the fight against racism and is very right. That structural racism in which we are all, absolutely all immersed, is the main food of the far right and I give just one example of this. The racist and xenophobic discourse of the Partido Arri, the far right of Portugal - I know it very well - created the political conditions for the battery of physical attacks against people. The emergence of the right-wing legitimacy in the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic increased the already high rate of violence of all kinds, racist violence, which kills. The same happens everywhere, in the United States, in Hungary, France, Italy, Greece and here in Spain too, of course. Colombian anthropologistAlejandro Castillejo talks about the need to establish the rite of passage between situations of violence and new spaces of peace. Franco's dictatorship has been one of the most violent in history, and with the arrival of the new democratic order this ritual, where the victim's experience is confronted with the story imposed by the oppressor was a process that the 1978 transition pact did not allow to take place in Spain. For Castilejo, the memory certifies that the past existed, but our society has been condemned to have no memory, and of that favor that our proceres did us between 1976 and 1978 today it turns out that in Spain there are twenty-six sons of bitches to be shot. [[Rumors]] It's not anecdotal what happened to the bullfighting chat or the casino chat, as they called it. Can there be anything more caspian and frank than a casino? What has happened is a symptom more of the level of danger facing the whole of our society. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u126	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u127	It's not an isolated group of boring old nostalgics. This class of franchisors who allow themselves the luxury of writing to their king, of writing to the European Parliament and of going out with their heads high to give explanations in the media evidence that they feel able to walk through streets that believe theirs, ladies and gentlemen, and of cleaning them up with red sons of bitches. [[Rumors]] But as they already demonstrated at the time, after the parents, the husbands, the brothers, the mothers will come - for them the whores who gave us - and they shaved their hair; the sisters will come, and raped them, and all this will not be thanks to the herrings of the extreme right Francoist, ladies, in Congress, nor to the flirtation of Married with the extreme right, it will be because their feet have not stopped. [[rumors]] I have recently gone to Manzanares, ladies and gentlemen, to exhume the pits of Francoism to accompany the work of the Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory, of the blood of people who are still in the gutter today and of the forgetfulness to which we have been condemned to the generations that we have grown in this country of countries and that has resulted in their indignity. Those who shared table and tablecloth with the genocidal ones and who allowed the official of the Franco regime and its army to remain occupying some posts today continue to propitiate the existence of authentic endogamous dynasties in which ecosystems of public institutions, which are softened with those who oppressed, murdered and made hundreds of thousands disappear. It is an agreed silence, ladies and gentlemen, and the reason why twenty-six million of us - the whores - have a target centered on our chest. But there are more targets to which they point, ladies and gentlemen, and they are very real. Every day, crimes are committed against migrants, blacks, Muslims, trans, impoverished, migrant minors without reference, persons with disabilities and many more who suffer from the violence of the far right. Spain urgently needs, ladies and gentlemen, to live a true transactional moment. Spain must review its past through the mechanisms that enable justice and reparation to be achieved and that offer the guarantee of non-repetition. I remind you that what I heard in the defense of the motion of censure by the representatives of the extreme right Franco could well integrate the arguments of the same Millán Astray, Galtieri, Bordaberry and Pinochet. And what does the state do? It abstains in UN resolutions against fascism and racism. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens do their work, they gather on platforms against racism, against fascism, black people come together, gypsy people come together and migrant women come together. Even yesterday, the world of rock, with more than 1300 signatures, made a manifesto.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u128	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u129	Rock screams, now and always, not fascism. And I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u130	No, Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u131	But you need to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u132	Your time's up. I'm sorry, Mrs. Carvalho. Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment put forward by the groups, Mrs Fernández Castañón intervenes by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u133	Good afternoon. Yes, Congresswoman Carvalho Dantas, we have to fight the discourse of the far right, fight the noise, the loudest voice and those voices so loud that they spread lies and point out as if it were the enemy to those who live in much more vulnerable conditions. Brazilian philosopher Marcia Tiburi says the following: How is hatred manipulated? It is very simple, for a process of small intrigues and of promoting intolerance to the difference. He who feels hatred, before he felt fear and, before, he felt envy. Fear becomes an intransigent verb, as well as envy. In the culture of envy and fear it is not necessary to know why one is envied and why one is afraid. These loud voices have also had an amplification, unjustified and excessive, before occupying the institutions, by many media, by the big headlines. But it is also necessary to specify and it is necessary to say that there are many journalists and that there are many journalists who do a decent journalism with the resources that they have and that they dignify the profession. All those professionals, thank you. Your work today is more necessary than ever. [[Applauds]] Those voices that point to migrant, racialized, LGBTI, precarious and poor people also point to those who rise up against hatred, feminists, activists and human rights defenders, whom they call insults. We have to say to the power, to the one who oppresses, to the one who mocks those who are in the worst situation that no longer makes us grace, that it is no longer worth us, that we no longer want more of that and that it does not make us offended, that it makes us criticisms. Offending and kicking from power has much more ridicule than feeling of cancellation. Do you know how many women with families, children, and daughters have had to leave their homes because they were pointing them out for defending that there is male violence and for defending the rights of all women? I don't have fingers to say the cases I know directly. Why is this happening? Well, there's not a single reason. Obviously, the pandemic situation we have experienced may be the broth of cultivation, but there is more. It also happens that an ex-military prints photographs of political leaders, some ministers and ministers or the president of the government, places them, shoots bullets at them and broadcasts the video, but Judge Pedraz judges that it is to kill time. It happens that in a retired military chat, twenty-six million sons of bitches are happily talked about being shot and that it is a private conversation between colleagues and, no doubt, a metaphorical game. The lawyer Laia Serra, in her study on the Speech of Inciting Hate, says that the term hate opens the interpretation to a subjectivity, which seems to be that we talk about emotions, that we talk about beliefs. It is precisely for this reason that UNESCO proposes that we speak of discriminatory discourse, of dangerous discourse, of speech of fear. After the ultra-rightist attack in Hanau, Merkel assured that racism is a poison, that hatred is a poison and that this poison exists in our society. We need such strong and forceful manifestations. It is their irrefutable mandate for the institutions, for any public office, for anyone with a responsibility. It is necessary to look and attend to those most sensitive spaces of our Administration and also of our State Security Forces and Bodies. We agree with Mrs. Dantas and we agree with Mr. Rufián. We have always said that security is the effective right to housing, which is the guarantee of energy supplies, which is the reinforcement of public services. But after three racist attacks in Murcia, one cost Younes Bilal his life, I cannot resist to say, as Márcia Tiburi also says, as journalist Olga Rodríguez says and as the writer Antonio Méndez Rubio points out, that there is also a low-intensity fascism. Racism is fuelled by the loudest voice of cartels that criminalize lonely children who come from other countries, yes, but it also grows with the silence of the voices that have normalized the existence of the CIEs, that have normalized the hot returns, that have normalized the denial of the rights to people who have no papers, that there is labour exploitation. As that silence normalizes, I ask all those who want to fight against fascism, against the ultra-right, that we fight fascism by closing the CIEs while we continue to advocate that there be investigations into labour exploitation frauds, stopping hot returns, making it effective that no one is illegal and that we do so by guaranteeing rights of full equality. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, fascism is also combated. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Salinas has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with an issue that has an important impact on all Western democracies and, of course, on our own. We are talking about the rise of the ultra-right and the attempt to destabilise democratic societies and to curb progress in rights, freedoms and quality of life, which have been achieved thanks to the effort and sacrifice of many people. This social retreat is encouraged by the far right and, in the specific case of Spain, with the complicity and approval of the ultra right in a senseless and far removed form from what most of society demands. The ultra-right takes advantage of the uncertainty created by the crisis of the VOCID-19 pandemic and the extension of fear to the different, which infuses through a very well orchestrated manipulation machine and through media and social networks. That fear leads to the hatred and polarization of society, and with this cocktail we already have the broth of cultivation created for the boom of the ultra-right. Another important strategy of the ultra-right and ultra-clear right is to divert attention from the important and confuse the population. [[The Lord]] The ultra right, with the foolishness of the whole goes to reach power and government, is feeding foolishly the beast that can eat democracy, the ultra-right. Mr. Married, if even you were afraid of entering Columbus. Don't you see where he's taking his drift? It is adding to a very dangerous game, not only for you and your own party, but for all Spanish society. The reality is that if Spain is doing well, the PP is going badly if the government is not there, and that is what is happening now, because Spain is getting better and better with vaccination, with economic recovery and with the prompt implementation of the Transformation and Resilience Plan, and this neither the PP nor Mr Casado support it. You believe that power is yours and that it belongs to you. Gentlemen of the PP, do not stray from the democratic path and clear your party of corruption. Although I am sure you will be aware, I will tell you that in my land, Almería, you have a new corruption scandal, this time allegedly adorned with money laundering from drug trafficking. Where they pass they leave a mark and not exactly good or clean. [[Applauds]] I return to the content of the motion tabled by the Republican Group. You are well aware, Mrs Carvalho, that the State cannot investigate the activities of legal political organizations. The Socialist Group cannot support urging the Government to do what others have done when they ruled, which is to use the State Security Forces and Bodies for investigations that are not legitimate and outside the interests of the State and the security of society. We honestly think this is not the way to fight the far right. We have tabled a replacement amendment which proposes, firstly, to strengthen measures promoting equal treatment and non-discrimination in the General Administration of the State and in the powers of the State, including the State Security Forces and the judiciary; secondly, to review the actions of the Government relating to the fight against hate crimes, involving public actors and civil society; and, thirdly, to promote institutional campaigns to prevent such crimes and to raise awareness about the risks of misinformation on social networks and the Internet. Similarly, in addition to the above, the left must make a common front and build a stable space of coexistence both in Spain and in Europe that faces this progress and continues to bring progress, equality and social justice to our society, which are ultimately the essential conditions for exercising freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the progressive government is carrying out a political agenda that is developing and implementing laws that develop civil rights and social protection. It has developed a protective shield during the pandemic and will develop the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will allow us to grow again according to a model of country that the 21st century demands. In short, it improves social well-being, the quality of life of citizens and the fight against inequalities, whatever they are. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the best way to combat the intoxication of the ultra-right and the folly of the ultra-right. I do not want to end my speech without expressing my pride and that of the Socialist Group for the courage of the Government and President Pedro Sánchez in granting pardons, betting on dialogue and agreement, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Republican Group is presenting an initiative that is dry, with no justification, in which it urges the Government - and I quote textually - to curb the threat of the ultra-right. Ladies and gentlemen, in twenty-first-century Spain, there have been two major democratic threats. The first is through jihadist bloodthirsty terrorism and the second is through ETA. In this regard, I would like to remind you that a leader of your party, Esquerra Republicana, Mr CarodRovira, then head of the autonomous government that Mr Maragall presides, agreed in 2004 with the murderous band ETA to refrain from attacking in Catalonia. The other Spanish autonomous communities continued to increase the victim of murders, bombs, shootings, kidnappings and extortions. Some family members of the victims sit in this Chamber, in these banks on the right. [[Applauds]] The second major democratic threat to Spain was the party to which you belong, Mrs Carvalho, who could have followed the memorable example of the Transition, of that Tandem Suárez-Tarradellas, but who chose to transform the management of the Government in Catalonia into a throng of crimes against the Constitution and the laws, challenging our police and civilian guards and accusing judges and public officials. The Supreme Court's historic ruling on the trial case provides more detailed data on these major threats to democracy, which the Council of Ministers has irresponsibly laundered this morning. Finally, the part of the motion concerning the proliferation of hate speech in the Army is part of its intoxicating work in the face of the neutrality of officials, which guarantees Spain's sovereignty and independence and defends its territorial integrity and constitutional order.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u138	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u140	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the Socialist Party, in order to seek agreement, some partners have been sought! They talk about hate, but is burning the flag of Spain in Vic City Hall hate or is it democracy? Is banning a child from speaking in the courtyard in Spanish or Spanish hate or democracy? Is defending a person for carrying a Spanish flag hung up hate or is it democracy? Hitting a girl for wearing a Spanish bracelet is hate or is it democracy? What's that? What's that? [[Applauds]] We're in democracy. How insecure are those who do not trust democracy? And here, as it was said a moment ago, the dead have been put on some. The dead have been put on the same. [[Applauds]] Here the dead have been ours, of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party, of the Union of the Navarro People, of UCD. [[Applauds]] That's what we've put the dead, which means more respect. We cannot come here to insult, to insult democracy, to insult people, when we have had a very bad time here. That's it! I can't take it anymore! You can't do that anymore! We can't tolerate one coming out here to say every time everyone we don't think like him is I don't know what. Whoo! No way! This is where you've come across this country. It has been fought for this country, for the freedoms of this country. Of course it would have been easier to turn Navarra over to the terrorist band ETA, of course. Was that supposed to be done? That? Give things away? Lose your freedoms? Is that what they wanted? What do we all say? That there was no freedom? That you couldn't vote? That's what some people want, their dictatorship. But this is a democracy. And here lives have been lost to defend democracy. Therefore, more respect for those who are here. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand, and from Mr Martínez Oblanca, from the Mixed Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u142	Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u143	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. García Adanero, do you know what the problem is? The partiality. You make a speech looking only at a period of time and some victims. [[Rumors]] He referred to a political party. President Lluís Companys, who was a Republican d'Esquerra de Catalunya, was shot by this state, led by fascists. [[Applauds]] There's the problem. The far right is present in all societies in Europe today. It is not a unique case of the presence or infiltration of the far right, especially in the powers of the State and in something more sensitive such as the Security Forces and Corpses or in the Armed Forces. Last week we saw that Germany withdrew thirty members of its armed forces destined for Lithuania because they had performed an act with anti-Semitic fascist chants. What did Germany do? Remove them immediately. What did you do last year, when you detected a cell in a special intervention group of the Armed Forces? Eliminate that group directly. We have seen something similar in Belgium last week and in France the previous weeks. What is the difference between Spain and these countries? Relativism and negationism. We saw him today. The leader of the Socialist Party did not want to enter into this matter and Mr García Adanero and Mr Martínez Oblancaya are directly book negationism. Therefore, there is a problem. What is the size of that problem in the security forces and the Spanish Armed Forces? You don't know, because you don't investigate. I say that it would be good if it were investigated, not only by those who say that there is a problem, but by those who deny it, precisely for that reason, to prove that there is no problem, but nothing. Negotiation and relativization of the problem. Why? My theory is that we do not want to touch that myth of the democratic and peaceful transition, because in Spain the problem is not ex novo, but it comes from afar, for forty-two years, and has always persisted there, with more or less force. When I ask the Committee on the Interior or the Defence, the various ministers tell me that it is anecdotal and that the Security Forces and the Armed Forces defend the constitutional order. Of course, if I ask the German Defence Minister if the German Armed Forces defend the Constitution, she will say that of course, but if I ask her if there is a problem of infiltration of the extreme right, she will tell me that as well and the way in which they are fighting that problem. What does the Government of Spain do? Deny the big one. I don't have much time, but I'll mention a few anecdotes for you to see where the problem is. What happened to that lieutenant colonel celebrating 23-F eating paellas in a Valdemoro barracks? You know what happened to him? That he was promoted to colonel. Do you know what happened to the Civil Guard unit that took pictures under Franco's statue in Melilla - fortunately, they've already taken it - they told them they gave a bad image, that it wasn't right for the members of the security forces to take those photos. Do you know what happened to the commissioner of Iruña, of Pamplona, Daniel Rodriguez, for doing Franco-style tweets? They assigned him to the National Police Council. What happened to Mr. DanielBaena, alias Tacitus? Nothing, it's still where it was. What happened to that inspector who attacked alive in Spain and alive in Franco to the photojournalist Jordi Borràs? Nothing, because, although the prosecutor asks for two years' imprisonment for him, he remains in his position of investigation. Or with Colonel Billion over there, of the Armed Forces, who said Tejero was a man whose currency was honor? Well nothing; says Defense that they are investigating, but nothing has happened. If we ask for Francoist manifestos or for the menaces that make members of the Armed Forces, as mentioned here, it tells us Defense that, since they no longer have any connection with the ministry, they can do nothing. But it is not true, because they still have the privilege of wearing the uniform, of being recognized for their position and of going to those playful and holiday places because they were members of the Armed Forces. That privilege could be withdrawn from them after having made ultra-threatening and threatening manifestos, asserting their previous position in the Armed Forces. If things can be done and, as I said, the first thing would be to investigate, even by those who deny that there is a problem, which I think there is, but we should see...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u144	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u146	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was reviewing Gabriel Rufián's intervention when he called on the Minister of Justice, who was the origin of this motion, I found it interesting, especially because he asks many questions, which, after all, seems to me to be an important question that goes up to this rostrum and can be asked questions, because we do not have all the answers. I agree with many of the analyses made by the Member of the Republican Left, but there is one issue on which I would say that, by coinciding with the analysis, it is not necessary to do so only from the perspective of the left. I mean, it's not that fascism, the ultra-right, the 'neocon' tsunami, just tossed against the left. The harmed is democracy, the democrat feeling is that harmed by this issue. That is, the Democrats and the Democrats are the ones who are harmed by this wave of neo-fascism, ultra-right, etc. It is not a matter where only the left suffers what it throws at. My group has been very concerned about this issue and has always been concerned, perhaps because - as many as some try to deny it and come up here to let go of sufflas, taking out the ETA wild card constantly, as if others had not suffered-historically we have suffered, cruelly and for a long time, anti-democracy and oppression and all its consequences, and we continue to notice it, especially from the heirs of those who forbade us, exiled us, imprisoned us, seized us goods, wanted to humiliate us - they did not get it - and some sat for a long time in these seats, in this Chamber. Then they transformed and camouflaged, such as chameleons, which the same was reaffirmed in principles that embraced others a weekend anyone in exchange for remaining in the same place forever. And now, without complexes, they are here, there in front of them, a natural right plus a more own homeland, that of Francoism, because obviously the wave of right that in many countries of Europe is shooting already existed in Spain, what happens is that they didn't know what that was, what happens is that the Francoist gene that already existed has been added to it. And they continue with their obsessions to see the world in a very special way, and they continue with their obsessions with dried fruits: they only talk about nuts all day long. But with the questions we have asked the Government - I agree with someone who has spoken here - the problem is not that they are there, that they are, but how they act or what those who are against them have done to stop them from being there. He said that my group has asked a lot and many times, I have here more than 26 questions that we have asked, some even orally to the Minister of Defence, and the truth is that we didn't like the way he answered us at all. Instead of being the first one to say: indeed, if there is any problem I put myself at the forefront of this issue and will eradicate it, what happened? Let's get defensive. For fear of what? I don't know, on the defensive, not wanting to be wrong and arguing things as if the others were against the Army, the professionals, those who give life, etc. But if we're not questioning this, if we're not talking about it, we're talking about whether fascism or not, we have to investigate it, because the same thing happened to Spain with torture. Europe denounced him not for having them, but for not investigating them. And what do you want to hide when you don't want to investigate something? What's he afraid of? I have to finish. Some people would be very happy to have a law in this Parliament such as that which Viktor Orbán has passed, for example, in Hungary, where homosexuality cannot even be talked about. How nice some would be with a ViktorOrbán here! Fortunately, we don't have it. All I have to say is that we will support this motion, we will continue to fight as we have in our one hundred and twenty-five years of history, against ultra-right and fascism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u148	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u149	Thank you, President. Today, 22 June 2021, the Government of Spain has pardoned the coupsmen, not on my behalf. Look, Republican Left brings here a proposal to locate elements of the far right in various structures of the state. It is important to define what the far right is. I have chosen five essential characteristics of the far right. [[Show a document]] One, the far right is looking for a mythical past invented. Let's see. Imagine, for example, that an autonomous community that has 11 presidents, takes 121 and says: we have 132, because they are very old. I give you another example of a mythical past invented: a guy named Victor Cucurull Miralles, paid with public money, from the Institut Nova Història, says Catalonia is the oldest nation in the world and does it because he says that Tartessos is not in Andalusia, but that already says the word, Tartessos is in Tortosa. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Scientist, uncle. Another discovery by Mr. Cucurull, that America is called America by a Catalan. [[Show a document]] Here it is, with the subtitles of Dolça Cataluña, what is the scientific deduction of Cucurull. Why did America call America a Catalan? Americo Vespuccio, Americo Vespuccio, Americo Despuche, and he says, ah! Aymerich Despuig, a scientific uncle wherever he is. [[Applauds]] Therefore, gentlemen of Esquerra, characteristic number one of the far right, mythical past invented, tengui. Second feature: indoctrination. Well, look, I show you pictures of what they do to children: they put police shields full of blood or they pull them out to advertise their independence referendum-what I guess is a coup -, and they are also pointed out if they speak Spanish. [[shows a document]] With this, the second feature of the far right, indoctrination, had. Third feature of the far right: vital space or lebensraum. This was done by the Germans, Italians and Japanese before World War II. Does Catalan nationalism have an expansion project, a vital space? Let's see. [[Show a document]] The Catalan countries - have I said it right? - to the north borders with Narnia, I suppose, and to the south with the region. Lebensraum, vital space, expansion project, expansionist project, third feature of the far right,tengui. Fourth feature of the far right: victimization. A good example would be to turn Catalans into victims of the Spanish saying, for example, that Spain steals from us. Or turn criminals into political prisoners - it's also a good victimization maneuver - or rather, runaways into exiles, with which, fourth feature of the ultra-right that Esquerra has: correct, tengui. Fifth feature, the greatest - I have kept it for the end - and you, madam, who has come here to shout: fascist, racist, who has no idea where you are fighting, I tell you. Heribert Barrera, president of Esquerra Republicana until the end of the 20th century, who would throw me peanuts for being Andalusian, said monerías like this: the intelligence ratio of blacks is inferior to that of whites; or said monerías like this: we may have overcome the immigrationandaluza, but I don't know if we can with the South American or the Maghreb. [[Show a document]] I do not enter through the back door, this is the page of Esquerra yesterday, where they continue to claim it - by the way, do not accept their cookies, do not accept anything -. I have also chosen more characters claimed on their website: Valentí Almirall, who said that the difference between Catalans and Castilians was that the Castilians had Semitic blood - attentive -, therefore, tendency to luxury and dream, and that the Catalan race was more serious and hardworking, less mixed. Almirall has, by the way, street. They're gonna take it off? I'm on it. I quote another, textual quote: 'If we let ourselves be absorbed by immigration we are in danger of the Catalan culture suffering a great blow, as is always the case when cultures are mixed. Catalan culture comes directly from the Catalan race. Journal of Sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia of March 16, 33, Pere Màrtir Rossell and Vilar, of Esquerra Republicana. It also has a street. Look, Junqueras, when he was writing about genetic differences, he didn't have a bad day, he followed a long tradition. So, I have racism, I have racism. Let's go over there. Let us summarize the five characteristics of the ultra-right in the past of the Republican Left. Mythical past invented, tengui; indoctrination, tengui; vital space, tengui; victimization, tengui, and racism, tengui. They wanted to look for the far right in the institutions and we found her. The far right is in all institutions, in all institutions where the Republican Left is. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, stood up.-A Member of the European Parliament: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u150	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr. President, that fascism is a danger to freedom is historical evidence. Even more so in the Spanish State, in which there was no break with the Franco dictatorship, and in which the Transition led to the continuation of an ideological post-Franchism enquisted in the main institutions: in economic power, in the media, in the judiciary, and also in politics. Yes, in politics: from Franco's ministers converted to democrats to the head of state appointed by the dictator. We cannot be surprised that the ultra-right, which claims that the dictatorship is uncompromising, is sitting in this House. It enjoyed broad economic and media support for this. We agree with the proposal for legislative changes to combat its progress, but a minimally coherent political attitude is no less important: when you vote with VOX not to investigate the corruption of the Monarchy, when you shelter Francoist soldiers but you expel from the Army democrats, like Corporal Santos, or when you make antisocial policies, you give wings to the extreme right. Fighting her is everyday. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u151	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The motion addressed the issue of the ultra-right and, in this area, we want to give a little thought. Here are two models: either the German model, mostly followed by European countries, protecting democracy, or a model such as that of the United States, in which freedom of expression prevails, with which we might agree in part, but it has to be ensured in any case that there is equality of arms, that everyone can express themselves in the same way. You face these issues from the rigor when you approach this motion, but then you encounter what has happened here, which has been a small spectacle worth remembering. First, Mrs Carvalho, any resemblance to the text of the motion and your intervention is pure coincidence, but also to the tone of the speech made by Mr Rufián, who is the origin of this motion. We can denounce the hot returns; We can denounce the hot returns that have been practiced in recent times, which are part of the government of the State. The PSOE comes out here and tells us that Spain is doing well - an ancient slogan of the PP - because now the vaccination will come and even serves the motion to talk about the corruption of the PP. And Citizens are setting us up this Comedy Club of the Spanish Liberal Party but, instead, they do the opposite of what all the European liberal parties do, which is to move away from the far right; precisely what you do is to agree with them. As regards the amendments that have been tabled, that rule of 'accepting octopus' would apply. We believe that the approach of the motion was right; the amendments, of course, are less than nothing, and we will therefore appreciate our position on them. But in the meantime our position against the right is clear: facing political debate, confrontation of ideas, responding to the discourse, putting the answer to the ultra-right from liberal democracy, from democratic values and equally addressing the ultra-right and the ultra-left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u154	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the presence of Francoism, the extreme right, the ultra-right and neo-Nazi ideology in the State Security Forces and Bodies, in the National Police, in the Civil Guard, in the Army, in the judiciary-especially in its dome - in the Crown, is an undeniable and worrying fact. It is a fact and, frankly, I am very alarmed at the banality with which some of the speeches we have heard right now, such as that of Mr Díaz Gómez or that of Mr García Adanero, have dealt, because we have departed from the motion tabled. I read the motion. It proposes to carry out a report in one year on the activism of the ultra-right in the powers of the State; to carry out an audit on the activism of the ultra-right and hate speech in the Security and Army Forces and Corpses; and to draw up proposals for action. It's reasonable, isn't it? It is very reasonable; it is very reasonable when in the Army in recent years there have been dozens of serious ultra-rightist incidents in military barracks and environments; ultra-rightist missives to your king Philip VI - by the way, how rare they write to him, right? Won't it be because his tutor was the beating general Alfonso Armada?-; incendiary debates in messenger groups, with retired generalFrancisco Beca promoting the murder of 26 million Spaniards. We even have here with us, without going any further, a Franco military like Mr.Agustin Rosety, Brigadier General of the Navy Infantry, who in the summer of 2018, in the face of the announcement of the exhumation of the bones of dictator Franco, signed a declaration of respect and relief to General Francisco Franco Bahamonde, soldier of Spain. No respect for the fascist dictator, no respect for his bones rotting. Thank you. [[applause.-Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u155	Yes, Mr. Rosety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u156	Thank you, President. I have served more than forty years with arms to Spain, and at no time have I ever been able to question my sense of loyalty to the Spanish nation or my absolute respect for democracy and citizens' rights. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Rosety. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Protests]] Quiet, please. I'm asking you to take your seats, please. [[Protests]] Mr. Asarta, you don't have the floor, please. I remind you that you are in Parliament, in the legislative branch of Spain, and therefore I ask for silence and respect. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: We do not accept insults.]] Silence, please; I want silence. Let us continue the debate, please. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u158	On 16 June, in full social-communist and separatist dream between Mr Rufián and the Minister of Justice, they referred to VOX as an ultra-right, apart from the insults that have been uttered in this House on more than thirty occasions; they can continue to employ their neo-communist orwellian social-communist to twist the reality - which is the only thing they know how to do - that four million votes defend us in the defence of Spain. Spain will prevail. [[Applauds]] We are called ultra-right to defend the Spanish Constitution those who try to break it. They call us far-right to defend life those who want to throw at suicide assisted our elderly and sick, instead of caring for them and alleviating their pain. We are called ultra-right to defend the family those who say that children are our parents, who belong to the indoctrinating State. We are called ultra-right to defend the equality of all Spaniards before the law those who have condemned the murders of Anna and Olivia, but have forgotten about Yaiza, murdered by her mother. They call us far-right for asking for maximum conviction for murderers and rapists. They call us far-right for demanding that the Aliens Act be obeyed, and it is that national and international law provides for the return of the MENA; and the return of assailants to our borders is covered by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Strasbourg; it must be that its judges militate in VOX. They call us ultra-right to defend the rule of law and the separation of powers. They call us far-right to defend the workers who have run out of bread, by this government, for more than a year with unconstitutional measures. We are called ultra-right those of 'I do believe you, sister' and he 'not beautiful, not beautiful', but when Meer's Rocío receives a stoned is ketchup; when he receives it the Monastery Rocío is justified; or when Baleares' guardianship children are prostitutes oppose investigation. [[Applauds]] In his supposed feminism I don't fit as a woman and abused minors neither. We are called ultra-right those who encourage their militants to stone and burst political acts, those who try to break democracy with false electoral campaigns, through alleged letters with bloody bullets and knives, and then it is discovered that they have been sent by the private security of the ultra-left. [[Applauds]] We are called ultra-right those who kidnapped our partner Ortega Lara or those who murdered our partner's son Antonio Salvá, and the brother and nieces of our partner José Alcaraz. We are the only party that is defending our rule of law alone, and that has managed to have the Constitutional Court bring down the state of alarm; nineteen appeals to the Constitutional Court in seventeen months. [[Applauds]] He wondered how there might be so much gazelle listening to lions. Mr. Rufián, we are not lions, but I can assure you that we will defend Spain as if we were. [[Applauds]] Let's see if who we're going to have illegalized the government parties and their separatist and coup partners, because, according to articles 9 and 10 of the Party Act, they have destroyed the regime of freedoms by locking up the Spanish for months with a state of unconstitutional alarm. They have destroyed the democracy and functions of this legislative chamber ruled dictatorially on the basis of decree-laws that have validated its age-old and coup partners in exchange for destroying the unity of the nation. They have destroyed the separation of powers and have agreed today in the Council of Ministers nine illegal and illegitimate pardons, have defended and justified communist regimes against the resolution of the European Parliament of 19 September 2019. They can call us ultra-right, what we do not allow them to do is insult our glorious Armed Forces and Security Forces and Corpses, urging their members to be persecuted and investigated for their ideology, a fact that is clearly unconstitutional. They have been giving their lives for forty years to defend democracy and the rule of law while most groups in this House struggle to destroy it. As a woman, as a mother, as a daughter, as a sister, as a Spanish woman, as a wife, and it is an honor to do so on behalf of millions of Spaniards, that there is hope, that there is alternative, that we are more and more legion, that VOX is not alone, is that only VOX remains. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u159	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. Mr Merino Martínez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u160	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. How long this day is going on June 22, 2021! Who was going to tell us! It is precisely today that a motion from Esquerra arrives at the Congress of Deputies, as a result of an urgent appeal to the Minister of Justice last week. Now we understand that tone, if you read the interpellation or listened to it, that Mr. Rufián made to the Minister of Justice, that tone proper to give him a massage, to relax knowing that today they were already granted pardon to the coup, knowing that today was the day when the President of the Government was going to commit the greatest act against the rule of law, the Spanish Constitution and the independence of the judiciary. [[Applauds]] That hatred, like terror, could be an instrument at the service of political interests already wrote Machiavelo, but today, like many days, we have had to attend the headquarters of Spain's national sovereignty, the General Courts, to see how Esquerra Republicana presented us and presents us with a motion resulting from his hatred, which is aimed at pushing from the Government, his Government - because they are in the Government, as we have seen today - a genuine witch hunt or to put in place the already outdated and sadly known purges in totalitarian, fundamentally communist and populist regimes. You represent, Mr de Esquerra, Mr Rufián, the most nightly and most communist populism in this House. They self-legitimize themselves to decide who is bad and who is good, who should be persecuted, who should be acquitted, who should think and who should not, what should we think and what should not; that is the police of thought which has been the object of so many wonderful literary works, but which unfortunately today is not a story or a novel. Mrs Carvalho, listen to me when I speak to you, I ask you never again in this House to address yourself as you have addressed this part of the bench, looking at us when you said that our feet have not been stopped in time. Correct or explain what he meant, because on this bench I see many people who have had to bury parents, brothers, nephews and go to many funerals of many party companions. [[Applauds]] We won't let you, gentlemen of Esquerra. To be endorsed by them does not mean that millions of Spaniards approve of the hate speech you made this afternoon. I ask you to speak with the services of the House and correct what you said immediately. As I was telling you, this isn't a novel. Yesterday the President of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, said that this was already a proposal to change the regime of rights and freedoms in the Spanish legal system; a proposal that is endorsed and endorsed by the Government of Sánchez and the Socialist Party. And you want to impose that hate speech. Today we have had that great example: we-they, they-we. This is the most traditional of the political theories of populism that seeks to break a society, the Spanish society. Mr. Rufián, gentlemen of Esquerra, is that you arrive a little late with this motion. They are a little late because it has been more than forty-two years since the Spanish Constitution... [[Show a copy]] Look, Mrs Carvalho, this is a code that you shared the day we accredited ourselves as Members of Parliament. It is not only the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, it is also the Spanish Constitution. They read its articles 16 and 20 and will see how the right to freedom of thought, the right to freedom of expression and, in addition, protected by the Constitutional Court and by various rulings of the Supreme Court that have already said what was not democratic, which was not legal, is already enshrined and guaranteed. You know what wasn't democratic and what wasn't legal? The expressions, the songs of Mr. Valtònyc that you want to decriminalize, the expressions of Mr. Otegi, so many behaviors against the Crown and the head of state... We, the People's Party, are against both the anti-democratic expressions of the extreme left and those of the extreme right, but you are not, you are the ones who choose who you want to be legal and who you want not to be.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u161	Mr. Merino, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u162	I'm done, President. That is why we in the People's Party will find ourselves in respect of the laws and the Constitution and will find ourselves in the framework approved here, at the seat of national sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Merino. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 241 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 37 plus 113 telematics votes, 150; against, 67 plus 125 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u165	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, amending the Law of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of the gratitude of the individual. [[File number 122/000088]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u166	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending the Law of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of pardon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 241 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 38 plus 112 telematics votes, 150; against, 66 plus 126 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-22-CD210622.u167	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Good night, everyone. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and ten minutes of the night.
