ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona Pilar Cancela Rodríguez, asked Dona Natividad González Laso if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u3	Doña Natividad González Laso has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting a new session under the conditions of invisibility imposed by the pandemic, but with a certain prospect of soon being able to regain normalcy in our work. Normality is, in addition to the ordinary functioning, the assumption of the obligations and responsibilities imposed by the rules and, in the case of Congress, the Constitution and the laws that this House adopted at the time. I am very aware that reaching agreements is difficult - often very difficult - and above all impossible to impose, but not trying or refusing to do so is, however, a clear breach of our duties as Members and as Members, and I believe it is an obligation of all of us to defend and preserve the institutionality of our country, of Spain. I also remind you of what I have already brought to you on many occasions, that freedom of expression and freedom of criticism are not contradictory with respect for people and that in Parliament this respect is directed especially at the citizens, whom we all represent. Let us all make this new session and our work in this House something that the Spaniards can be proud of.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u5	We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2021 of 3 August, adopting social protection measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u6	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you all. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare for the first time before the plenary of the House. It is of course a pride for me, and I also have to acknowledge the respect I have for all of you, legitimate representatives of popular sovereignty. For me, too, it is an honor to present this royal decree-law that I bring under my arm, which is the royal decree-law that we have been calling the social shield, the Royal Decree-law 16/2021, by which social protection measures are taken to deal with situations of social and economic vulnerability. It is a new extension of the social shield that we have created to protect everyone. The title, ladies and gentlemen, is already a statement of intent. It is a rule that shows the action of a progressive government in the face of a crisis. These days from the government we are referring to a fair recovery, which is the idea that defines what we want to do in Spain at this new stage: economic growth and social cohesion; more wealth; more rights; more freedoms and more social protection. The credibility of the Government in this area - let me say it quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen - is indisputable. Data on social spending, employment support, efforts to support SMEs and families are clear during this year and a half of the pandemic. They demonstrate that this Government is addressing the economic and social consequences of this health crisis with an inclusive vision, the vision of leaving no one behind. Now, at the recovery stage we have already begun, we are going to strengthen that modernizing, transforming and progressive political action that characterizes us. We are determined that Spain will recover quickly and fairly, that is, that the recovery will reach the middle classes and the working classes, the self-employed, the enterprises, all the territories and all the sectors of professional activity. Ten years ago another Government faced another crisis - the financial crisis - and the contrast between the two ways of governing is very illustrative. The comparative offers some teachings. The exit from the previous crisis was slow, unfair and incomplete and this exit from the crisis is fast and just. A few years ago, ladies and gentlemen, when there was a crisis the Spanish saw the Councils of Ministers with concern waiting for a new cut and in this crisis the Spanish find in the Councils of Ministers relief during the worst months of the pandemic and hope for the future. That is the value of politics, putting into value that it is not the same who rules, and less when adversity comes. [[Applauds]] In the previous crisis, with the previous Administration, no one thought of the most difficult people. On this occasion, we have created a new pillar of the welfare state, minimum living income, EUR 3 billion per year, ladies and gentlemen, for people without income. We have increased the interprofessional minimum wage and we will continue to do so. We have also adopted a law that guarantees the purchasing power of pensions under the CPI. We have also taken care of the right to decent housing, protecting from evictions and cuts in supplies to the most vulnerable families in order to avoid the human tragedies we saw in the previous crisis. Two data: in 2013, according to the information of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, there were 67 000 evictions in Spain; in 2020, in the midst of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, there were 29 000; that is, less than half. Two different governments, two different realities. In the previous crisis, the construction sector and the people who worked in it with less qualifications and more difficulties in employment fell. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, we are supporting those sectors that are suffering most from the crisis, such as tourism or construction, with specific plans for them. In the previous crisis there were cuts that left us far behind in all R & D+i indicators. We, on the contrary, have undertaken the largest investment in R & D+i. The 2021 budgets approved by this House provide for 80% growth in this area, reaching EUR 11 483 million. At European level, there are also very clear differences. During the previous crisis, the dogma of austerity drowned families and businesses. In this crisis, the President of the Government leads the initiative to create European funds that will mean for our country the arrival of 170 billion euros to modernize our economy and give social protection to the Spaniards. The differences are also clear. [[Applauds]] In short, the COVID crisis has not been an excuse to cut off the welfare state, quite the opposite. We have strengthened the welfare state to emerge from the COVID crisis with social justice. You will deduce from this brief summary, ladies and gentlemen, that coming with this royal decree-law under your arm is an honor to me. It is the joint work of several ministries, that of Ecological Transition, that of Justice, that of Transport, that of Equality, that of Social Rights and, also, that of Presidency. All of them, I appreciate your work. It is the coral and committed work of a Government that looks at people, responds to their demands and sees in difficulties a possibility of continuing to protect us. The signs of economic recovery are evident in the macroeconomic scenario. However, it takes additional time for such macroeconomic data to reach the family economy, the SME economy and the people's economy. Several indicators show that many of the main beneficiaries of the measures envisaged by this decree-law are still in a vulnerable situation. This social shield that I submit to your validation, ladies and gentlemen, protects more than 1.1 million people in Spain, compatriots who have economic difficulties and who have been aggravated by the pandemic. We tell them that they have all the support of the Government of Spain; all the same. [[Applauds]] That is why we have also decided to extend the social shield, which ended in August, until October. As you know, these measures are grouped into three areas: energy poverty, housing and combating gender-based violence. With regard to energy poverty, we have approved the guarantee of the supply of water, electricity and natural gas to vulnerable and excluded consumers, including families with incomes of less than EUR 11,900 per year if there are no minors or EUR 19,800 if there are up to two minors. We have also approved a discount on the electricity bill, extending the concept of vulnerable consumer to people in unemployment affected by ERTE or who meet certain income requirements, so that they can benefit from the electric social bonus. According to the latest data available to us, 1,190,000 people have seen their bill reduced and, in addition, we have assured them that they will have gas, electricity and water in their homes if they cannot pay the bills. [[Applauds]] The second group of measures is aimed at protecting the right to housing. The first is the suspension of evictions and the launching of vulnerable people without housing alternatives for them or their families. This measure does not apply if the owner is vulnerable, if it is his or her second residence or habitual domicile, if the tenant entered with intimidation or violence or if there are indications that illegal activities are being carried out in that home. For its part, the tenant can request compensation, which will be paid with the resources of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021. The second measure in the area of housing is the possibility of applying an extraordinary extension of the lease for a maximum period of six months if requested by the tenant. Third, they also have the possibility to request a moratorium or partial cancellation of rent when the lessor is a company, a public entity or a large holder. It is Initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, for all, of course for tenants, but also for owners, who can apply for compensation until 30 November. The third block of measures is the fight against gender-based violence. We cannot tackle this crisis, or any, without having as a fundamental axis of public policy the fight against one of the great inequalities of our time, the inequality between men and women. [[Applauds]] For this reason, this royal decree-law also includes measures in this area. Specifically, protection and assistance services for victims are maintained as essential and, in this way, the competent administrations will continue to ensure the provision of reception, information or legal advice within 24 hours and will also ensure support for personnel providing comprehensive social assistance services to victims. In recent months, the Government has detected a resurgence of the killings of women for gender-based violence, according to data from the Government Delegation against Gender-based Violence. I do not need to tell you many times, ladies and gentlemen, because you know the Government's commitment to a clear and consistent commitment to equality between men and women and to combating gender-based violence. It is our priority, and our public policies bear witness to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is guiding its action on the basis of progressive values and principles. We accompany people in adverse circumstances, we work to know their needs and solve their problems and we try not to leave anyone behind - I repeat: nobody behind -. We are turning our values into proposals. We want to protect people. We want to improve their living conditions, create wealth, also create employment and promote a socially fairer and economically stronger country. We're leaving this pandemic as a community. All of us, public employees, self-employed, entrepreneurs, health personnel, security forces, armed forces, young people, have done our best. Today it is up to them to do their part and do their job. We must continue to live up to it, offering the Spaniards a validation that extends the social shield, an agreement of all and for all, to show that all groups, regardless of their differences, we agree to embrace the people who have the most difficulties. Those who need the most from the public need you, ladies and gentlemen. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I stress the confidence of this House to validate the Royal Decree-Law 16/2021. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. The Government submits to the plenary of the Congress a royal decree-law which contains a series of extraordinary measures grouped into three blocks or chapters to address up to October 31 situations of precariousness resulting from the pandemic of the coronavirus, COVID-19, which year and a half after it began has continued to cover lives and severely conditioning the development of daily life. My position in favour of extending these measures will not help but stress that a social shield is indeed needed, but above all it is now more essential than ever for citizens to be able to defend themselves against the attacks on their economy perpetrated by their own Government. Today, Mr Bolaños, as much as you strive to sweeten the landscape, the Spaniards are far more vulnerable than when Pedro Sánchez arrived in the Moncloa. At the beginning of the pandemic, four and a half million people were living in severe poverty in Spain, according to the report published by the European Network to Combat Poverty. The figure has grown since 2018, coinciding with the change of government following the motion of censure. In percentage terms the highest figures are in the Canary Islands, Valencian Community and Asturias, where, by the way, last week the president and his ministerial entourage were distributing virtual millions for Vocational Training from the former Labor University of Gijón. About the fact that severe poverty and unemployment are affecting more and more young people, Mr Sánchez did not say a single word, and that we are Europe's record in youth unemployment. Nor could any journalist ask, because they were all held behind the tupid curtains of a room, lest anyone should be bothered by the presidential press release. Ladies and gentlemen, the first of the chapters of this rule is aimed at vulnerable energy consumers, who, paradoxically and sadly, are the whole of a society dragged into unorthodox prices of light and fuel, who have fired the CPI, boosted the shopping basket and put the economy of households, businesses and businesses at risk. Much will be said in this plenary, as in the street, about the bill for light, which is a reflection of these last three years of management. But it is also that the content of this normative set derives from the application of the first state of alarm, which has been declared unconstitutional at the request of an appeal of the VOX Parliamentary Group, and from the second state of alarm, which probably follows the same path. In other words, the fragility of the legal pillars over which the Government has deliberately legislated throughout this pandemic period has been absolutely evident, worthy of resignation. In any case, Madam President, I shall vote in favour of this Royal Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Minister, welcome to this house. We wish you every success, because it will be everyone's. Today we are addressing a real decree-law on social protection measures aimed at the sectors of the population and the areas of life probably most vulnerable, though not all, and I am telling you that New Canarias is going to vote in favour of validating this real decree-law, as it cannot be otherwise, for two reasons. The first, because we share the philosophy behind this Royal Decree-Law. This royal decree-law takes a set of measures to deal with a harsh crisis situation that affects a very significant percentage of the population and makes a set of decisions that, quite rightly, are opposed to those that were taken in your day, as you have already pointed out, and with which we agree. Countercyclical measures run counter to a negative cycle for the majority of the population, such as this, and this is what it is about to do. Therefore, in the face of cuts and measures of austereicide, we share the expansion and effort of the State to try to protect the most vulnerable. In this we have, as you will understand, no doubt whatsoever. We absolutely share the position that underpins the royal decree-law. It is true that macroeconomic indicators are improving, but this is where we face one of the difficulties of such measures. When will this land in the social majority, in the very large sections of the population that are suffering and continue to suffer the consequences of the previous crisis and of this, accumulated in many cases? What we want to say is that we agree with 31 October, but I suppose we will agree that the date will have to be decided on the basis of reality, of events. I would very much like to think that on 31 October in the Canary Islands, for example, the increase in severe poverty in times of crisis by 10%, to 16.5 % of the population, although the Arope rate is 10 points above the Spanish average. I have to point this out because we are extremely concerned, because it does not seem that in a month or so these problems will be solved. We agree that measures must be subject to a temporary framework, but also to reality. Issues such as energy poverty are being addressed, a matter on which New Canarias has already expressed its concern. It is a scandal that has been happening with the price of a basic good for the population, so it seems to us that this measure is well complemented by a commission that will be launched and that we will support. In relation to housing, I'll just say one thing. With the public housing that has been made in previous years in the Spanish State and also in the Canary Islands we are hardly able to give an answer to people who really have a serious housing problem. We must reflect on this and know how long these measures should last. It's our concern. And as far as gender-based violence is concerned, I will only tell you that we share that the worsening of this scourge is absolutely dramatic, just at the hardest times for everyone. We therefore share the spirit, share the letter and trust that these measures, if necessary, can be increased over time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to announce the meaning of the vote: we will vote in favour. This is not a novelty, we have done so with all the royal decrees that extended the social shield. But having said this, it is not appropriate for us to deceive ourselves or ourselves or anyone else. This is nothing more than a stretch, it is nothing more than a patch and it is not the solution to the many problems faced by the workers of the Spanish state and the people of the most disadvantaged strata of society. You, in your decree, specifically in the publication in the Official Gazette of the State, call it: palliative actions. We could think, by making an analogy, that this would be like the respirators at the time of the COVID pandemic; that is, something necessary for those who are in a critical situation, but absolutely fundamental for the development in positive terms of the exit of the disease. Much remains to be done and, again, this royal decree is short. Is it necessary? Yes, but it is clearly insufficient and of limited effectiveness. You spoke of pre-crisis exits and said that they had been unfair, incomplete and I don't remember what other word he used; in any case, this cannot be said to be complete either. Perhaps it is fair; it is right that those who have less are provided with the basic social protection net so that it does not fall off the path of precariousness and poverty, but it is not complete if we see the data, because the evictions have not stopped, because the cuts in basic services such as light, water and gas have not ceased, and because, unfortunately, the macho violence has not only not disappeared, but it seems that in this 2021 we are threatened with increasing the rates in a worrying way. I will again cling to the data that you yourself have referred to in the royal decree that we voted here today, in this royal decree published in the BOE. With regard to evictions, you point out that compared to the 57,462 calls for launches in 2020, now, in the first quarter of 2021, there are 35,178, and with an estimated projection of 140 000, that is, we are going to move from 57,462 calls for launches to 140 000. It does not seem to be absolutely effective if the poverty of society is increasing in the most vulnerable sectors. And we could talk about the mortgage executions. Of the 9873 of 2020, according to its own text and according to the published in the Official State Gazette, we are already in 7081 in the first quarter of 2021, which making a projection of what may be the 2021 set would lead us to 28 000. More clearly, from 9873 mortgages to 28 000. We're talking about people who can't pay the mortgage because their resources have probably been undermined as a result of the pandemic, either because they've been subjected to an ERTE, either because they had a SME or because their income level has ultimately fallen. The same could be said of the supply cuts. Already in January 2021 he was alerted to the so high price of the electricity bill, when talking about ridiculous prices compared to those we are suffering today of 154 euros megawatt/hour, but we already saw that there were very significant data: there were 7.6% people who could not maintain the ideal temperature of their homes, 6.6% who had to be delayed in paying their bills and 16.7% who had a disproportionate expenditure in relation to their income. These data also did not take them out of a separate report, but are the same data that you publish in the text accompanying this royal decree. In short, ten out of every hundred people live in energy poverty. This in 2019, which is how far there are data; they are probably more now. This leads us to conclude that this social shield is more a tirite, which is probably necessary, but that in no case gives rise to breaststrokes or a high level of self-satisfaction, because much remains to be done. We could also talk about the macho violence, which would be the other element that accompanies this decree called the social shield, because the data has also increased. More murders of women have been committed in May and June than in the previous four months together. Therefore, once again we find that the social shield, in what had to do with this - with free legal assistance, with accompanying, etc., because it considered them essential goods - is not enough. And we still dare to say more, and it is going to remain insufficient even if there is no pandemic. Unfortunately, in a society like this it will be necessary to accompany him for many years. We therefore believe that, beyond these short-term measures, structural debates need to be addressed, because if we do not run the risk of investing all the money of everyone and everyone in short-term measures without touching the benefits, for example, of electric oligopoly - in terms of electricity, water and gas supply cuts - in order to thin the state's coffers, but not to bring about structural changes that affect the benefits of large companies. That is the place where we place it: structural measures beyond short-term measures, because we have to guarantee the right to housing, and then perhaps we have to talk about banning evictions; because we have to guarantee the right to water, and then we have to talk about water as a common good and not as an economic good - it is better understood, for example, that swamps are emptied when, ten years ago, electrics pay for concessions of the order of EUR 20 million a year to the State while obtaining profits of EUR 1 billion for the same amount of water payment - and because we have to ensure, in short, that electricity is a more right in these historical record times, and these would be negative records. We believe that the social shield is a necessary but absolutely insufficient patch, and we believe that what needs to be done is to deepen structural measures. We also believe that the new laws must now come into being. We say this more clearly: already a year ago, in the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State, our group, Euskal Herria Bildu, together with Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and with Podemos, tabled an amendment. That amendment said - and it was not because we were Nostradamus - that we had to ensure the survival of the social shield throughout the year 2021, and today you bring us a text that once again proposes that the social shield be maintained until 31 October. There is no need for spoilers, but I am very afraid that you will have to go back to this rostrum on 31 October or so to say that it is extended until 31 December, that is to say, to return to the exit box that we put these left-wing groups in this House in last year's budget debate. Let us hope that for future debates we will not have to remember again what should have been done and not been done, because insecurity for many people is increasing when it has no certainty and when it is abandoned by political power. If political power acts in the same way when it governs the right as when it governs the left, it is likely that citizens turn their backs on the left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u14	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law, as the Minister put it, but as he also contemplates his memory, addresses situations caused by the slowdown in economic recovery resulting from the worsening of economic data by that fifth wave that has occurred to us, but also by the delay in the transfer of economic recovery to individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises and families, considering therefore that they have become more vulnerable than was desirable. The main measure provided for in this royal decree-law is to maintain the validity of some of the measures of what has been called the social shield - as has already been mentioned - which were adopted to prevent situations of social and economic vulnerability and which mainly affected housing and gender issues or the prevention of violence. These had a common feature, and it was in force until August 9, 2021. Then there was another assumption, which were those that contemplated its validity until the end of the state of alarm. In both cases it is necessary to update these forecasts as to the date of their duration, validity or term, in order to adapt them also to the economic consequences of COVID-19. Several measures have been reported by the Minister and provided for in the Royal Decree-Law. The first, the amendment of Royal Decree-Law 8/2021, as regards the moratorium on evictions in several cases: the possibility of suspension of basic supplies, energy, electricity, gas and water, as referred to in Article 4 of that provision, and the possibility of proving the status of vulnerable consumer, as referred to in Article 7 of the same legal text. I would also like to point out that in that royal decree-law we abstained, although in this case we will support this measure. The same happened with the Royal Decree-Law 12/2021, in which case we also support it. There is a second amendment, which is that of Articles 1 and 1a and Article 2(1) of Article 4 of Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, as regards the extensions - and now it is correct what I am saying, earlier I have said wrong - until 31 October 2021 of the possibility of calling for the extraordinary suspension of eviction or launching in trials for claim of income or the duration of contracts of persons in a situation of social or economic vulnerability without housing alternative. Similarly, this measure is envisaged in respect of the cases referred to in paragraphs 2, 4 and 7 of Article 250.1 of the Civil Procedure Act and in cases involving criminal proceedings. It also provides for the extension by six months, at the request of the person concerned, of leases concluded before 31 October 2021, as well as the possibility for economically vulnerable tenants to request from their lessor, in the event that they are large holders or public holders, the temporary or extraordinary postponement of the payment of rent if there is no prior agreement to this effect. I have to say that in that case and for other reasons we also abstained in that royal decree-law. The third amendment is that of paragraphs 2, 3, 5 and 6 of the second additional provision of Royal Decree-Law 37/2020, where the most relevant issue from the point of view of legislative policy was the purpose of co-honesting, than not to make it compatible in our opinion, the treatment of economically vulnerable persons and dependent children on the occasion of the launch of their home and their conjugation with the constitutional principle that no one may be deprived of their property and rights except that because of public utility or general interest and through the corresponding compensation could be achieved. Without prejudice to our support for such measures or measures in this direction, we were critical both of the fact that the cost of such measures will be borne by the autonomous communities, despite the fact that this is a state initiative and that it is an autonomous competition, and also of the fact that the cost of the housing solution was borne by the homeowners, which in its day justified our abstention in that initiative. Paragraph 4 extends until 31 October the essential consideration of the measures provided for in articles 2 to 5 of Law 1/2021 on protection and assistance to victims of gender-based violence, which again have our support and in this case also our vote in favour. To this is added a first final provision which is difficult to understand from the point of view of legislative policy, since it only retains the regulatory rank of a rule that already had it. This measure we understand is quite difficult to explain. As I was saying, even though in some of those cases we maintained a dissenting attitude that led us to abstain in some of those royal decree-laws, in this case, for obviously social reasons, we will support the royal decree-law also support its processing as a bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u16	Thank you, President. Minister, welcome to this House. I begin by referring to the fact that the beginning of this session has unfortunately forced us to make a special mention that today we are paying the highest price for the light of the wholesale market. I am saying this because talking in this House about social protection measures without even mentioning this issue would be almost a blow to millions of Spaniards. The situation is becoming unsustainable and citizens cannot assume higher bills, especially the most vulnerable ones, without forgetting that Spanish middle class that can no longer with these incessant climbs on those issues that are fundamental to having access to a dignified life. The Royal Decree-Law includes a series of social measures with which we in Citizens fully agree. We believe that many of the social measures included in the text should be extended, because we cannot forget the great economic blow this pandemic has brought to the most vulnerable families. That is why we believe it is vital to continue to support these people in basic services such as electricity, water and gas. But in Citizens we go further, ladies and gentlemen of the government. When the pandemic arrived you launched a package of measures that called the social shield, which ensured that the most vulnerable people in the pandemic were not cut off from light, water and gas, and also at first included access to the Internet. We must remember that since the second extension what they did was to cancel this Internet service within these services. Therefore, today Citizens have presented an initiative, a basic social telecommunications bonus, which guarantees access to the Internet for people in vulnerable situations; a bonus that establishes a reduced Internet rate for all citizens who receive minimum living income or for single-parent families or large families in which none of their members have work. The so repeated 'we can't leave anyone behind' also goes by ensuring that all Spaniards have access to the Internet and that no one stays disconnected because they can't pay the bill, much more now that the pandemic has forced us to change our educational, training, work, consumption and leisure habits. On the other hand, the Royal Decree also includes a number of measures with which we agree on the issue of male violence. During the appearances of the Minister of Equality on our Commission we have already made it clear that in Citizens we had that fear, they already predicted that the end of the pandemic, the end of restrictions and the increase in mobility could lead us to have a rebound in the case of macho violence. Now this situation of confinement has passed and restrictions have been lifted, and what we have to do, what the Ministry of Equality itself has to do, is to carry out the legislative reforms that entail the implementation of the State Pact on Gender Violence. In fact, from Citizens we have already repeated on some occasion that we have tabled in the Senate a bill to carry out the legislative reforms that are needed to implement this Covenant of State of Gender Violence, but we have met with the opposition of the Socialist Party, because sometimes, while you, from Podemos and from the Socialist Party, what you are doing is fighting to see who is more progressive, what remains to be done is the legislative reforms that are needed, and in this case legislative reforms are needed to implement this pact that will benefit the most vulnerable women in our country, who are victims of gender violence. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we have the area of housing, and that is where we do not agree. We have to tell them we don't agree. Why? Because this royal decree seeks to prolong an unjust situation for citizens. I must tell you that the housing measures included in this text are unacceptable. We are aware that there are vulnerable families who have problems with access to housing, we are aware that there is a bad housing situation in our country, but it is because there has been no housing policy, because the housing policy shines through its absence in our country for many years. And what's going on? The solution that the Government brings back to us is by allowing housing to be set aside as a solution to these problems. Once again, the Government is not doing its job, because what it has to do is to legislate and address a structural problem. We are talking about a structural problem, of vulnerable people who do not have access to housing - it is that there is almost no social housing in our country - of vulnerable people living in infra-housing, of vulnerable people living in slums. And what solution is offered to this? The state housing law goes on there, it's been a while and there it goes on, without any solution, ladies and gentlemen. So how are we going to solve the problem? Making nothing happen because those citizens who may have a second home without occupying it will be okupen. Is that fair, ladies and gentlemen? Is this the most progressive government in history? Is this the solution they offer to a structural problem? It seems to me that from the legal point of view and from the point of view of justice it leaves much to be desired, because I do not think that a patch should be put in and that citizens who legitimately have their homes must be the solution to the situation of vulnerability that, unfortunately, many families in our country live in. Let us also think that this royal decree is extended until 31 October, but what happens next? Will we have the state housing law in place? Will we have the housing plans in place? Will we have the housing solutions in place? What are they going to bring us again, another patch to solve a structural problem? That's where I encourage them to work. I believe that there should be no inaction on matters as relevant as those we have been talking about, no action on the implementation of the State Pact against Macho Violence and no action on the search for a decent solution in the field of housing, but never citizens at the expense of others, ladies and gentlemen. When they want to work, reform and not generate injustices they will always have the stretched hand of Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u18	Good afternoon, Minister, welcome. We agreed on the Constitutional Commission the other day, but I would also like to reiterate here the wishes of the best of luck in this task. It brings us to validation today the royal decree that implies the extension of the social shield. I have to take this opportunity to say that I would like to clarify why you are bringing this issue to us. That would be interesting. I say this because so far these measures have been presented by Mr. Pablo Iglesias and his Vice-President, and the whole part of Mr. Pablo Iglesias has gone on to social rights. One, at a minimum, has the right to ask what is happening in this Government, because it seems that all these issues now come to the hands of the PSOE and not to social rights. In any case, beyond the distribution you make and beyond the option you have to sell these measures to the public, you, as I was telling you the other day, are responsible for relations with the Courts, and I think it's okay to make a small review of how this went with the social shield in the Courts. This whole issue began on 31 March, with the first royal decree in which these measures were implemented, but there have been up to five royal decrees on this social shield, royal decrees that, as I told you the other day, are validated by responsibility, are validated because, of course, we agree that many of these measures must be taken, but whose processing as draft laws is not carried out, to the extent that many of them are still unprocessed. One sees here - I tell you to the extent that you are responsible for the Courts - a laxity in the great contributions that I sincerely believe my political party can make, as others can do. It is clear that there is work that is being blocked in connection with the processing of these bills. One sees in this story the repetition of the history of ERTE: punctual patches, renewals and extensions. Perhaps what we should ask you in this long-term scenario, since you say that you are going to exhaust the legislature, is that you are courageous, that you tell us what your long-term solution is to all these situations of vulnerability, to these situations of severe poverty. I am grateful for a statement you made in your speech. He said: In the previous crisis people looked with fear at what was happening in the Council of Ministers, by the cuts that could be made. I could tell you that one looks at the current councils of ministers with uncertainty, because in the end it is not well known what the Council of Ministers as a whole is thinking about labour reform - yes or no - in relation to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage - yes or no - or in relation to the Barcelona airport - yes or no -. I therefore believe that we have moved from fear after the Councils of Ministers to the uncertainty of what measures will be taken, because they are not in the long term, they are all small patches, small renovations or small extensions. By entering into the measures in question, we, of course, are going to be next to those people who are worst through it, the most vulnerable families, and therefore, of course, we are going to support these measures, but I think it is beginning to be urgent to assess whether they work. Over the past few weeks, the European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion placed severe poverty in one in ten Spaniards, 4.5 million people, and the National Institute of Statistics pointed out that mortgage executions had been shot at 253.2% between April and June in relation to the same quarter of last year. With this data there is reasonable doubt as to whether these measures are working or not, and I therefore call again for it to begin to be necessary to take definitive measures, long-term measures and not patches and extensions in each of the expiry dates of these measures. In fact, as I said before, we agree that no one can be left behind, we have to take measures for the most vulnerable families, but we also ask them to take measures for the middle class, because these measures are often carried out by them. The question of the suspension of evictions was raised earlier. Of course, no one can be left on the street in a situation of vulnerability, but this means resources for social services, that is not to condemn families to bear that if they had a rented apartment it is they who have to process the corresponding compensation why social services, because the Government does not give way to the problems of these people. Therefore, protection of vulnerable families yes, but protection and defense of middle classes of course as well. In this respect, there is much to work on in relation to these measures, which are good for some groups, but which can produce very perverse side effects for others. You also made a review in your intervention of minimum living income, pensions and the rise with the CPI, of the maintenance of employment, all measures that, as I told you before, involve patches to a situation that we have already been living for more than a year and a half. Therefore, we will support the Royal Decree and ask for its processing as a bill to incorporate all those amendments and improvements that we believe are appropriate, but we also ask the Government to be honest and to tell us in this long-term scenario what its bet is, what its structural solution to all these issues is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u20	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Minister, today we are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 16/2021, which takes social protection measures to address situations of vulnerability. In fact, this decree extends - as has been said - measures that were already in place, social measures that have been trying over the last few months to alleviate or cushion the disastrous effects that the crisis had on those most vulnerable people or groups. I am going to list these measures very quickly, because some speakers have already spoken about it. Some measures to ensure the supply of water, electricity and natural gas to vulnerable consumers are to be extended. The suspension of housing procedures and launches in vulnerable situations is also extended. Similarly, the possibility of applying an extraordinary extension of the term of the lease for a maximum period of six months is extended. It also includes measures to protect against gender-based violence, extending consideration to protection and assistance services for victims of gender-based violence. With these measures, with the social shield, it has been found that the exit from the crisis, contrary to what happened in 2008 - the Minister recalled - can be tackled effectively, that is, it can be faced without cutting rights and putting the needs of the people in the center. Well, let's follow that road map, Minister. These measures are really important, I would say they are valuable, but they are also insufficient. They are valuable because they protect basic rights and fundamental rights, such as the right to decent housing or the right to live lives free of macho violence; they protect basic rights and do so immediately, providing solutions to very serious situations. That is why these measures are valuable, but they are also insufficient. They are insufficient, first, because they are temporary and the vulnerability of families will not end on 31 October - if we read the latest report of the National Institute of Statistics on the survey of living conditions of July 2021, we can find that the percentage of population at risk of poverty or social exclusion, what we call the Arope rate, has increased in the last year: we are already at 26,4-, and second, because they do not attack the fundamental problem, which is structural in nature. And here I want to stop for a minute. It is speculation on the part of the energy oligopoly that puts the bill of light through the clouds and that contributes to the increasing impact of energy poverty on more families. Similarly, in a very similar way, it is real estate speculation that imposes abusive rental prices and increases residential exclusion. Let's look at this situation with some data. On the price of light I took two news that I read yesterday in two newspapers, one national print and another. The first says that, compared to 12 September last year, when the average daily price was 40.39 euros per kilowatt, this Sunday's price was 257% higher, i.e. more than three times higher than it was a year ago. These data do not cease to be surprising when the state itself is producing hydroelectricity at a cent of the kilowattage in the Pyrenees, specifically in the rescued power plants managed by the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation - and this is an important element -. The second news in a Basque newspaper said that there are 104,500 Basque households that cannot cope with the bill for light, who suffer delays in payments. Specifically in Guipúzcoa, the demand for vulnerable families using social benefits against energy poverty has doubled over the course of the year. This is about the price of light. If we're talking about renting the house, it's the same thing. In the last five years the rental price has risen by more than 40%, and speculation in rental prices affects large social majorities. Taking some Basque data we could say that, according to the data provided by Eurostat, in June 2020 in Euskadi there were 120 532 people who are in need of access to a house, and that the average price of rental housing is 1040 euros, according to the Basque Housing Observatory, being 1164 euros the average monthly salary of young people between eighteen and twenty-nine years. This means that young Basques have been expelled from the rental market, and that 65% of households in Basque families pay more than 30%. Well, the question is how much the wages of the workers have risen, what profits the electricity companies have had in the past year, and how much the real estate funds, the so-called vulture funds, have earned. We could set the example of energy, the benefits of the three major energy companies: Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy, which occupy 85% of the market, continue to grow, until the barrier of 6 billion a year is laxly overcome. After reporting this data, I really find it hurtful that there are entrepreneurs who stick to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, who take their hands to the head and dare to say that this rise can affect the exit from the crisis. It's embarrassing. So, it's time to end speculative markets and the rent economy, that's the big challenge. We urgently need - and it has ended - effective measures to regulate, now yes, in defense of the general interest, the energy market and, of course, a housing law that makes access to housing, at last, a right, because we are on our way to making it a luxury good. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bolaños, you have been the legal architect of the most obscene attacks on our rule of law. You have been the legal brain of the Moncloa and, as my colleague Macarena Olona had already introduced you to your first appearance as Minister of Presidency, you gave legal form to the political strategy designed by Ivan Redondo. That's why they became known in their small circle of Moncloa power as Oliver and Benji. It was his second on board and he lacked time to stab him in the back and do so with power. Now it's Adriana Lastra's lackey. By winning VOX the resource is supposed to nullify a legal work of his, one of his wildest attacks on our democracy. He was defined as a jurist of formation and vocation, but he is a jurist of the bad, and not only because from VOX we are laying down his works, but because he is at the service of evil. He drew up the plan for the exhumation of General Franco; the structure of the coalition government; the first and unconstitutional state of alarm; the illegal inclusion of Pablo Iglesias in the CNI - and I am glad that instead of listening to me he is speaking at this time - ; the second unconstitutional state of alarm; the political, but anti-legal, pardons to the coups; the law of democratic memory. [[applause]] But how can they give the legal reins to a lawyer who does not believe in judicial independence? That in his statements he claims that it is the Executive who must elect the members of the General Council of the Judiciary? Fortunately, justice has not yet fallen into their hands, and judges and magistrates are giving reason to VOX. And today it opens in this House to request the extension of measures linked to a state of unconstitutional alarm. Look, if there is any truth in the royal decree-law that brings us - he has read very well his explanatory statement - it is that the situation of economic vulnerability of the families of our country is due to the prolongation of the measures of his Government, and more specifically of his legal pen. Were you the one who said that the virus understands schedules and established time restrictions? Were you the one who said that the virus understood business and set restrictions on hospitality? Was it you who said that the virus understood activities by establishing essentials, negotiated that with its partners, with the Basque Nationalist Party as the preferred interlocutor? Were you the one who established the closure of the population because they didn't know what to do, as Fernando Simón said? But let us begin to analyse the measures in question, which are divided into three major groups: measures to address energy poverty, suspension of evictions and gender-based violence as an essential activity. On the first of the points, do you want to talk about energy poverty? Let's talk. Thanks to your government, the bill for light has risen by 220%. And don't give me the gas and CO2 costs, first of all, because, as my colleague Mireia Borrás said, it is your government that is pressing in Europe to keep those prices rising. And secondly, because the price of energy only accounts for 23% of the bill and the rest of the tolls and taxes. [[Applauds]] He comes here to defend a social shield, temporary measures to address energy poverty created by his own government. Menuda defach! Since VOX we have repeatedly proposed definitive, non-temporary measures to lower the price of light, such as the reduction of VAT to 4% or the abolition of the electricity tax - which does not suspend as you do - on a permanent basis. But they prefer to maintain that energy poverty with temporary cover-up measures. There is also another true fact in their explanatory statement, and that is that the percentage of the population at risk of poverty increased by 2020. Guess why. Those long lines of hunger that have not had the shame of going to see, among other things for the reception that his Government has on the street, and it is no less. But perhaps the star measure they intend to extend is the indirect expropriation of the Spanish houses, a measure which the VOX Parliamentary Group has, by the way, already appealed to the courts, and which announced that we will do again on this occasion. [[Applauds]] Through this communist measure they intend to usurp the homes of the Spanish families, their suspending evictions even when the illegal occupation brings cause of a crime. Do you know what measure VOX proposes for illegal occupation? Kicking in the ass, returning their homes immediately to the Spanish workers who see them usurped. And no, they're not going to convince the population that we're the enemy to beat, because they've already seen too much, they've already stolen their freedom, their time, their business and their savings. But now also their home, to which they lavishly dedicate the salary and effort of a lifetime in order to be able to leave their children a dignified life, this constitutional right with which they fill their mouths by mentioning. But at the time of truth they hand it over to the criminals or in the best of cases they keep it, because the children cannot pay the inheritance tax and donations, which they like so much to their party in the autonomous communities in which they still govern to keep their cork plugged in. [[Applauds]] By the way, according to his own explanatory statement, the problem is the social housing deficit. Let's see if we understand this: the problem of lack of housing is the political incompetence to create a social housing park, but the solution is to expropriate the Spaniards theirs. Is that so, Mr. Bolaños? [[Applauds]] Another cause is the loss of household income. Mr Bolaños, you are the one who has banned the Spanish from working with the measures of the unconstitutional state of alarm. You're the one who stopped them from taking the bread home. It is you who have identified certain activities as essential. Any job that allows you to bring bread to a home is essential, and not just those that your partners ask you to approve of your fruitless and harmful legal strategies. And it could not end without mentioning its consideration as essential services for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence. Is it that the rest of the victims aren't? Are there essential victims and non-essential victims? Do you really want to protect women? Maximum sentence for murderers and rapists, Mr. Bolaños, maximum sentence. [[Applauds]] In VOX we condemn all kinds of violence and consider that all victims are worth the same, without one being first and one being second. Mr. Bolaños, if you had any decency, you'd resign. And if I had it from your president, I'd stop you. You are the legal architect of the Spanish closure, business closure, theft of property, defense of criminals, inequality of the Spanish before the law, attack on our democracy, our rule of law and fundamental rights. And the latter is indicated by the Constitutional Court itself. The weird thing is, he's not sitting on the bench of the defendants yet. Dismiss, Mr. Bolaños. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.-Pause.-An employee of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u23	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u24	Thank you, President. I want my first words, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and on my own, to remind the victims of COVID: 120,000 dead. Our solidarity and our love for their families. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, welcome to this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. Today we are here, in this plenary, on Monday, 13 September, and why do we have this plenary and this debate to validate this royal decree-law on a Monday? Very simple: because the Government did not remember the vulnerable and, until 3 August, it does not agree that the social protection measures that continue to need to be implemented on 9 August. Only six days before he wins do they realize that it is necessary to extend it in order to be able to continue protecting. This is a clear example of the incompetence of this government, of its way of working, always with constant improvisations, always coming late and bad, this combined with the phobia that this government has in Parliament; and of course, they endure until the last moment, and thus avoid the plenary. Mr Sánchez does not want parliamentary control throughout the summer. Today we continue to have no date for the debate on the state of the nation. Mr President and Minister for Relations with the Courts, do you think this lack of respect for Parliament in your Government is democratic? And now, of course, we find ourselves in the urgency of validating this royal decree-law. But I am already telling you that you better go to work and get your extension, because when October 31 comes, with the cold, with millions of Spaniards who need to turn on the heating and with the scandalous rises in the price of light and also in the price of diesel, gas, of course, the problem is going to be much bigger and it is going to affect a lot more people than now. We are telling you now: do not do it as usual, do not listen because we say it to you from the People's Party, as they have done with all the proposals we have made to you in economic matters, in health matters, that we continue without a pandemic law and continue in pandemics; a law necessary to deal with from the national territory, because they have abandoned the autonomous communities, the judges and the health care workers. Minister, by entering into the content of this royal decree-law, as regards the social bonus to guarantee the supply of water, gas and electricity, in this they act as the fireman pyromaniac, provoke an increase in light unprecedented with their ideological policies and their permanent desire to collect. Every day the price of light beats a new record. Today we will pay for the most expensive light in our country's history, 257% more expensive than a year ago. This is a pointless demeanor, which is drowning families, SMEs, the self-employed, especially the most vulnerable families, because even those with the social bonus will not be able to pay for the receipt of the light. We are the country with the most expensive light in Europe. His Government, the Sánchez Government, will pass into history with the dishonorable record of having the most expensive electric fare in our country's history. Do you want me to remind you of what Mr. Sanchez said when he was in the opposition? What did you say to Mr. Rajoy when the light went up 8%? And now, with a rise of 200 percent, what do you do? What's he saying? Nothing. Inaction. It is a shame that this country is living with its Government by punishing the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, 40% of the receipt of light is taxed. That's where they have to act. Take the proposal that the People's Party has put forward so that the receipt of the light immediately drops to 20%. Apply it, since they don't do anything. Continuing with the royal decree, in housing matters, other spokesmen have said this: executions of the main house have doubled; 11,000 families have been left homeless. In the area of gender-based violence, cases of violence have increased. They implement and implement the State Pact against Gender Violence that they have been sleeping and that they have been sleeping. Mr President, this royal decree is a patch. The government's social shield, which he likes to brag about, is a failure. The real social shield that the Spaniards need is to have a job, and in that, as always, they are failing. We have over four million people who want to work and can't do it. We are the second most unemployed country in Europe; we are the second with the highest youth unemployment rate in Europe. We have 272,000 workers in ERTE, 200,000 self-employed people who are out of work, 26.4% of Spaniards are at risk of poverty. Am I? Do you want me to keep reading the data? This is the picture we have; this is the just recovery that you told us here today in your speech, which says you are not going to leave anyone behind. Well, it's not too bad they weren't going to leave anyone behind, with the panorama we've got! My parliamentary group, on account of its responsibility, is going to support this real decree and the extension of these social measures, because the citizens are not to blame for this bad government, but this is not the solution. We ask you to make the structural reforms that this country needs to return to the path of economic growth and job creation. Let go of triumphalist speeches, of green outbreaks, which we have already seen what happened to Zapatero. Act, work. Spain is not for experiments. And if not, let go, that the People's Party is indeed prepared to govern and be the alternative to government and to respond to the problems that citizens have. The best thing you can do, Mr Sánchez: turn off and leave, for the sake of the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u25	Thank you, Mrs Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u26	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin this speech with a sense of remembrance from our group for all those people, extended to their families, who have suffered and continue to suffer the worst of this cruel pandemic. Minister, allow me to refer first to the spokesman of the VOX Parliamentary Group, who has demonstrated with that speech - which are often frequent in his group - to be faithful followers of the Middle of Larisa, guru of Alexander the Great, who said to his followers: "Send the slander confidently, the scars always remain. And it's good for you to have a country full of scars because you think that's better for you. Stop slandering and creating scars. [[Applauds]] Minister, first of all congratulations on your appointment and for your opening in this plenary room, which is yours. It has perfectly summed up in one sentence the content of this royal decree: a rule that exemplifies the action of a progressive government in the face of the crisis. You said this, Mr Bolaños: in the face of slow, unfair and incomplete responses from the past crisis, actions for a rapid exit - and I stress, and you stressed - and just from the current crisis. In his speech last May in the debate on the text that hangs this royal decree-law that we are debating today, our colleague Rafael Simancas said the following: Only from ignorance of its content or from the will to do harm can one oppose this decree. And today we find groups who, in their day, in May, voted no to that decree, who now say that it is late and bad, and that it is a shame what we are doing, expanding precisely that social state, extending that protection to the citizenry, when they did not vote. And what did you vote for that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? They voted that no to a rule that seeks to guarantee energy supplies of gas and electricity to families that are having a bad time, and that seeks to guarantee the supply of water. That's what you voted not to. What would happen now if that royal decree had not been passed? You voted not to extend the figure of the vulnerable consumer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you voted no to a rule that sought to guarantee the right to housing, your suspending evictions and throws at vulnerable people, a rule that offers the possibility of extraordinarily extending rental contracts, and the tenants may also request compensation. How could you vote that you did not to companies or large tenants so that they could be asked for a moratorium or partial forgiveness of the debt? How could you vote that you did not - and so did - continue to fight against gender-based violence and inequality between men and women? Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you too. Do you realize the consequences for the most vulnerable people that you would have assumed that that royal decree-law and that of today did not come forward? Have you now realized how bad you did last May? But yes, it seems that there are those who would also like to vote today that no, because what they are looking for is an end and an uncontestable goal. The bad thing is that those aims and objectives that you seek are too obvious, because you would like to vote that no, trying to generate the Montoro effect: let Spain fall, that we will already raise it. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the Socialist Group would not like to have to adopt this or any other decree, and I am sure that the Minister too. The reason is very clear: not having to approve it meant that the pandemic and its direct consequences on people would have already disappeared, but the reality is not yet. We are on the right track, but reality still tells us that social protection measures are needed for those in a state of social and economic vulnerability. The reality tells us that we must continue to implement and extend a set of measures aimed at ensuring that no one is left behind, not as in the past crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it will always be questionable, we can always do better with the resources we have, we can always find mistakes and correct them, but what can never be denied is that this government has launched, with proposals that come true through the BOE, the largest social shield in our country's history. [[Applauds]] It would certainly be a good thing to have a responsible opposition that contributes to making the lives of the Spaniards better, an opposition that demonstrates with facts that it holds its shoulder for the good of Spain, something that, certainly, and with little success, I recognize, we have demanded of it permanently, and also today. But of course, you play in another league, you're not for that. They did not support or support the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage; you have opposed a pension agreement which, at last, guarantees the update with the CPI and which is based on a great social agreement and the recommendations in the Toledo Pact; you have opposed new rights, as it is voting against the euthanasia law; you have defined the minimum living income as - shame should give - a subsidy to obedience; you have tried to torpedo the arrival of European funds that will allow us to deal with this just recovery with guarantees. In short, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the People's Party: you have not supported most of the decrees that make up this largest social shield in the history of this country, nor have you supported the General Budgets of the State at a critical time and have hindered the arrival of European funds. Do you not really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has come for you to change your focus and stop pointing at the vulnerable population? [[Applauds]] If anything has taught us this pandemic is that we need a stronger and more proactive State that can curb the consequences of a globalization of a market that is freely championed to its breadth. If something has taught us the pandemic, it is that we need to strengthen and expand a welfare state that the Government of the People's Party has contributed to minimizing, a welfare state whose health depends on that recovery reaching all and all, and a generator of greater equality and social justice. Is that what's bothering you? I'm done, Madam President. My countryman, Manel Loureiro, great writer, in his latest novel, The Door, makes use of a maximum known of Stoic philosophy: nec spe nec metu. Without hope, without fear, a maximum - believe me I feel so - that understands and reflects very well the present moment and the feeling of many of us. We have no hope of having an opposition that is up to the present moment, but - let us be clear - we have no fear, no fear on the part of the Government and no fear on the part of this parliamentary group of taking the necessary measures for a just recovery, because if it is not fair, it is not recovery. That's all, president. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] DEBATE ON THE APPRECIATION BY THE CAMERA OF THE PREVISION CONTAINED IN ARTICLES 135.4 OF THE CONSTITUTION AND 11.3 OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/2012 OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY: - No, no, no, COMMUNICATION FROM THE AGREEMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 27 JULY 2021, requesting the assessment of Spain's suffering from a PANDEMIA, which is subject to an emergency situation, to the effects provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. [[File number 430/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u28	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the communication of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 27 July 2021 requesting the Congress of Deputies to assess that Spain is suffering a pandemic, which is an extraordinary emergency situation, for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u29	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. At the beginning of this speech, allow me to convey the satisfaction of being able to meet all of us here again. I therefore hope that during the intersessional session your ladies and gentlemen will have been able to take advantage of the opportunity to develop issues that are not possible throughout the year, and I also hope that we will resume this parliamentary activity with a desire for dialogue, sharing - I believe - the only objective that needs to be illuminated, which is nothing other than to address all those issues that will lead to improvements in the day-to-day life of this country's citizens. At least that is the attitude of my Government and my own, because I am still convinced that dialogue is the best way to solve problems, as certain as it is that for such dialogue to exist it is necessary to add the will of the relevant interlocutors, even if it is, as always, ladies and gentlemen, from legitimate divergent positions. It is obvious that among the political formations that we make up this House there are very different visions of reality, the result of the plurality that we each represent of society as a whole, but that plurality cannot reach the point of becoming an obstacle or an excuse for not doing our job well. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we intend to promote measures beneficial to the whole country, solving problems of citizenship and addressing the main challenges that we have as a society, and that is why I trust, as always at the beginning, that in this session we will be able to put aside the strategies of confrontation or disqualification, which only bring schism to public life and disaffection towards politics. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are discussing today is one more step, as you are well aware, for our country to have in 2022 a general state budget that consolidates a just economic recovery socially, that reaches all people and all territories. As the vaccination campaign progresses we are seeing how recovery is taking place with good indicators that show what we have been saying from the beginning: that health and economy go hand in hand, and in order for us to put the economic crisis behind us, we have to keep the virus under control. That is why I also think I have to point out that the vaccination campaign is being a huge collective success for the whole of the country, which has us all and all to be satisfied with. First of all, for the responsibility shown by the Spanish citizen, but above all for the effort and commitment of the health professionals, who have once again lived up to the circumstances, showing that we have one of the best public health systems in the world, which we have to preserve and strengthen; it is one of the great teachings that have emerged from this pandemic. [[Applauds]] It will be precisely health, it will be the strengthening of the welfare state, one of the axes of the general budgets of the state along with, how about, the transformation, the modernization of our economy to make it more innovative, more productive and competitive; they are budgets for a fair recovery, because, if in 2020 we are basically dedicated to fighting the pandemic and in 2021 we focus on economic and social recovery, the public accounts for the next year - by 2022 - have the objective of consolidating economic growth and moving forward on the path of modernization of Spain. And that goes by continuing to drive expansionary policies that support our productive fabric, that serve as a lever for investment and that strengthen our capacities, above all, that allow us to so-called fair growth. Ladies and gentlemen, you can agree with me that it is not about returning to the pre-pandemic point of departure; it is about getting our companies to gain size and competitiveness, taking advantage of the advantages of the digital and ecological transition; it is about betting on the knowledge economy that prioritizes education, training, research and that generates high-value-added quality jobs. It is, therefore, a question of training our young people in the skills that are already being decisive in the labour market, to offer, in short, hope for the future. It is about women being truly on an equal footing and that we can continue to contribute our talent in all spheres, or that no corner of Spain, no province, is left behind by curbing the depopulation that many areas suffer. In short, we want our country to make a qualitative leap and to be prepared to face the next decades that will come determined by the vectors of transformation into digital, green or equal opportunities. The budgets of 2021, therefore, will again be extraordinary for many reasons. Among them, because the suspension of tax rules is maintained as the European authorities have been recommending since the start of the crisis. In fact, you will recall that last June the European Commission considered that the conditions for the maintenance of the general safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact next year were met, that is, the Commission, Europe, continues to offer a radically different response to the 2008 crisis, leaving behind austerity policies that deepened further in the recession and, therefore, trying to push forward from, among other measures, the contribution of public spending. Instead, Europe is committed to providing Member States with budgetary flexibility to deal with this crisis while maintaining its expansionary policies, stressing, moreover, the importance of not withdrawing the stimulus while the recovery is not more robust and the pre-pandemic GDP levels are already reached. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you know that this issue is not under discussion in the European Commission. Now, the Commission is discussing the transformation, the adaptation of the tax rules for the coming year 2023 and, therefore, what is left of the year - plus 2022 - we are also looking forward to a hard work of initiatives to ensure, I insist, that tax incentives are not withdrawn too soon. For this reason, the Government approved an agreement in the past Council of Ministers, which we submit to this House pursuant to article 135.4 of the Constitution and article 11.3 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. We will therefore follow the same procedure that was already applied last year in the financial year 2021, which is endorsed by both European authorities and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. In addition to this, I will provide information on the non-financial expenditure limit for this year, which they know will not be put to the vote, and also on the reference rates, which are indicative, for the various public administrations. Starting with the first point, I would like to say that the government has set the non-financial spending limit for next year at EUR 196 142 million, which corresponds to our spending ceiling; a figure slightly higher than the previous year and therefore remains the highest figure in the series in our democratic history. Or, in other words, in the year 2022 we will again commit spending so much more than any of the previous series has ever considered or recorded an equivalent amount; a data that, as I said to you, aims to drive the change in the pattern of growth that our country needs, by the hand - how not - of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that incorporates annuality back into our draft public accounts. At the same time as we achieve this first question, we strengthen the welfare state and, therefore, the public services, assigning unconditional transfers to all public administrations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate the reading of these figures, it is important that we distinguish two elements. The limit of the expenditure ceiling, which we say is fed by the national budget, amounts to 169,787 million; however, the other, which includes the 26,355 million of the annuality of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, causes that figure to rise to the 196,142 that I have just commented on. We are witnessing an increase in the effort made by the national budget, as the annuality of transfers from the Recovery Plan is the same year as the previous one. The sum of both figures is what allows us to calculate this spending ceiling for this year. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the momentum of these changes that I have mentioned will allow us to achieve, as I say, and I hope that in a truly record time, an economy more typical of the twenty-first century than we had enjoyed before this pandemic. These accounts will maintain public spending and investment and, at the same time, allow us to move forward in the commitment that the public deficit, regardless of whether the fiscal rules are not in force, will be progressively reduced. You know - I have always said this from this rostrum - that the suspension of tax rules does not imply that there is no responsibility on the part of all public administrations for fiscal and budgetary consolidation. In fact, the Government maintains that commitment to stability; therefore, we have offered reference rates that are, I insist, indicative, in the same way as we did in the update of the 2021-2024 Stability Programme. A shared responsibility exercise that demonstrates the will of this Government to return to a prudent path of stability insofar as we are able to recover the higher level of GDP or in the terms that were at the beginning of the pandemic. These reference rates that I am going to transfer to you have been designed in turn with a double objective: firstly, we want to continue to support workers, families, self-employed people, companies, in short, the whole of society, while this economic recovery manages to definitively put this episode of our history behind us; and secondly, it intends to start a process of medium-term rebalancing that reaffirms the sustainability of public accounts without leaving unabated burdens for future generations. For this reason, a deficit reference rate of 5 % is foreseen for 2022 compared to 11 % achieved in 2020 as a result of income protection and support policies for the productive fabric, mainly in SMEs and self-employed. This will mean, ladies and gentlemen, that in just two years the public deficit will be less than half of what was marked in 2020. The improvement of the economy and, therefore, the increase in tax collection makes it possible for the deficit of 11 % recorded that year to be reduced to 8,4 %. It is the forecast that the ministry has, and at 5% we would go in the year 2022. In fact, by 2024 our reference rate is 3.2% for the general government as a whole, very close to the threshold required by the Stability and Growth Pact; it will be around 2024 - I hope - although it is possible to get closer to 2025, when we are already in a position to present a path, as I told you, that resumes that commitment to fiscal consolidation vis-à-vis the European authorities. This means that the central administration will have planned for the coming year to produce a reduction of that deficit, from 6.3%, which is expected for this year, to 3.9%, which we expect will have the budgets for 2022. This is, as you can see, a leap in the reduction of the deficit much higher than that which is asked of Social Security, which is asked of autonomous communities or, ultimately, which is asked of the rest of the administrations. This is basically explained by the fact that the State continues to bear the bulk of the cost of the pandemic, especially in relation to the financing of ERTEs, as it has done this year through transfers of resources to autonomous communities and social security. Remember that, when this agreement of the Council of Ministers was approved, I presented to the press conference the data on transfers that I will now comment on and, also, I indicated that the Autonomous Communities would receive a transfer in the amount of just over EUR 7 billion corresponding to the VAT information system and to the transfer in order to make possible - I do not want to use another word - the negative settlement corresponding to the year 2022. In other words, since arriving in Moncloa, this Government has behaved with the autonomous communities as if the crisis had not passed through them; that is, the AGE has compensated the resources that were to be stopped by making ad hoc transfers so that they would continue to provide quality services in health, education or dependency. It also happens with Social Security. Members of Parliament who participated in the Toledo Pact perfectly recall that the commitment of the Government of Spain throughout the parliamentary term was to assume the so-called inappropriate expenses of social security, which are estimated at more than EUR 20 billion. This year we are moving from a balanced transfer of around €13.5 billion to a transfer that is going to exceed €18 billion, so that we will gradually correct that social security deficit and, therefore, ensuring with absolute roundness that our older people do not have to be concerned about the future of pensions, as this Government is already worrying about it. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, with this margin of deficit and with the resources that have been allocated, the spending capacity of autonomous communities will be approximately the same as that of the previous year and will be able to continue to provide these public services. As far as local entities are concerned, they maintain their equilibrium reference rate. This means that they can continue to make use of the surplus they may have in their public accounts so that it can be returned or invested in terms of welfare for the entire population. Social security, as I have just commented, because of this transfer will have a rate of 0.5%. See, it is lower than that reported to Brussels by 3 tenths, as it was 0.8 %. As I said, these 3 tenths will be left by the State to continue balancing the social security deficit for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this improved transfer of 18,396 million represents an increase - hence the ongoing effort - of 32% of the State's general budgets over what we have been dealing with in previous years. A quantity that, as I say, is historical and that speaks well of those communication vessels that the Toledo Pact has established between the General Budgets of the State and the accounts of the Social Security itself. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the effort we have been making in recent years has basically been devoted to the protection of incomes and now, progressively, it is going to be devoted to strengthening this pension system and also to the commitment we have with autonomous communities so that they can take on that capacity which they have progressively installed, without causing much higher tensions in their public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. You know that this draft budget is the most important law that this House discusses every year, it is the crystallization and the realization in number of the commitments and political wills that each government marks each year with the help of the political formations that support these own public accounts. I therefore hope that this ceiling of expenditure will bring or accommodate the expectations of your ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the citizens, because the effort is nothing more than to take full advantage of the opportunity provided by the funds coming from Europe, associated with the Recovery Plan and the country's own efforts to protect the incomes of all the citizens and, equally, to protect as far as possible the productive fabric so that it is also an opportunity, especially for employment. It would not be understood that any political formation would not support a draft public accounts that is objectively better for the whole country. It would be the same as denying bread and salt to a society that is looking forward to finally leaving behind the fight with the virus. I have already announced to you that we will keep all lines of communication open to add to the draft budgets any agreements and consensus that may be possible, because promoting this recovery is not only the task of the Executive, but also of all those we legitimately represent to the citizenry. I hope this new session will lead to a new parliamentary cycle in which from the licit ideological discrepancy we are able to really focus on where the problems of citizenship are and what solutions we propose, always complex solutions where the value of consensus is even greater because it implies that we all have to give up a part to achieve the shared goal, which is nothing other than the improvement of the lives of the Spaniards. This is at least my vocation: the frank dialogue with all and all to bring positions closer together. And my aspiration, that of the government as a whole, is to bring forward new State General Budgets, a task in which we are going to continue to use ourselves thoroughly for many reasons, ladies and gentlemen, but above all for political responsibility and for respect for the Spaniards we represent so that they can find solutions to the problems they have today. For that, ladies and gentlemen, and not for anything else, it is for what the citizens choose us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In the turn of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u31	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year, in October, they called us to vote that we were going to be fatal. This year, a month earlier, we are called on to vote that we are doing very well but that we are in the same budgetary situation, that is to say that at the government's discretion we are still without fiscal rules because Europe has left the safeguard clause active by 2022. It is true that the Spanish legislation, like the European one, provides for exceptional situations and, also, that the AIReF has issued a report in which it says that these circumstances occur. But what happens again is that you continue to interpret that the activation of the safeguard clause is sufficient cause for you to ignore the rest of the legal requirements, recommending that the tax rules for the 2022 budgets should not be applied. They bring us what they call reference rates - beautiful euphemism that hides the relativity of their fulfillment - but we lack all the information we would need; the most important is that relating to the debt situation that, at present, reaches historical peaks in both absolute and relative terms. They again fail to comply with the rule; they do not respect deadlines, there are no mandatory reports from the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and CNAL; and we are still waiting for last year's Rebalancing Plan. It cannot be more clearly stated by the AIReF in its report of 29 July, the suspension of fiscal rules, far from the relaxation of fiscal responsibility, implies that the actions of administrations should continue to be directed towards ensuring the sustainability of public accounts in the medium and long term, which, as stated in article 11.3 of the Organic Law, cannot be put at risk by the deviation of the deficit. In this regard, it reiterated that, in Spanish legislation, the activation of the escape clause involves the approval of a rebalancing plan, and denounce the failure to submit the plan for last October's activation for the 2020 accounts. How comfortable it is, isn't it, Minister? work without rules or commitments. How easy it is to set a reference rate and a spending ceiling and not tell us about the collection scenarios with which to finance them! What comfort it gives not to have to be held accountable to those who have to surrender, that it is all of us! And the Secretary of State for Budgets continues to elude her democratic obligation to go to the Committee on Budgets for quarterly accountability, as we have all done in office. It is a shame, what you want me to say to you; but it is more proof of the none to which your Government submits to this House, with the president at the head. Finally, the agreement that it brings gives us no more of itself, but it gives us the opportunity to reflect on other important questions about the situation of the Spanish economy and its optimism, real or set, which runs in the irresponsibility, because it can prevent them from taking essential measures and also gives them the alibi to take others that can be very harmful in our case. In the report on the situation of the Spanish economy, in addition to collecting that we are doing very well, robust growth - called Vice President Calviño -, important rebound rather because of last year's collapse - the basic effect, I would say - include other considerations; they justify the growth, the experienced and the expected, in two pillars: the one experienced by the effect of the anti-crisis measures and the one foreseen by those measures and the impact of the European reconstruction funds. At first, the income guarantee and liquidity support measures in companies managed to soften the effects of the radical stoppage of our economy. However, after a few months it would have taken others to really help our companies solve solvency problems. They refer to the two royal decree-laws on aid to companies' solvency, as triggers for recovery and growth. The royal decree-laws were passed by the Government, but their execution has been a fiasco. In the first case, we are all aware of the inability of SEPI to distribute all of its own, in the face of aid and the misconception of those granted to the Plus Ultra aviation company; and, in the second, the lack of interest it has had for small entrepreneurs, because the requirements to which the legislative text submitted to the concession make it very difficult to fulfil. These days, we have heard that they are calling for an extension of time in Brussels. Well, today Vice-President Calviño has not said exactly that; but the problem is not about deadlines, Minister, it is about requirements and procedures for making aid effective. It was late and bad to solve these problems, when they just had to look around. A determined policy of effective tax cuts and direct aid would have been much more effective in responding to the needs of our productive fabric. The other pillar in which it is entrusted is the Recovery Plan financed from European funds, but the start of its implementation is disappointing. It has not been agreed - you know - that it has not been worked with the various levels of government; the allocation of funds at sectoral conferences does not meet the needs of communities and is very fragmented. The expansion of funds should generate sustained growth and create stable employment. We need to get out greener, more cohesive and more equal with the digitisation generated in the country, but also richer and more employment because that is the only way to guarantee the future of the Spaniards. IREF points out in this report that I have mentioned that the Government does not incorporate the macroeconomic and fiscal implications of the Recovery Plan into the documentation provided, that it circumvents the analysis and quantification of the impact of its investments and major reforms on both potential growth and the structural deficit, and that this cannot be done. Finally, I will make a quick reference to inflation. You do not give it the slightest importance, but your tax impact on already unbalanced accounts in itself can be significant, and your second turn in the economy through wages and production costs in a situation of weakness can lead us to a trap from which it is difficult to get out: stagnation, rising prices without growth, and in an economy like the Spanish one, more, because of its fiscal weakness without mattresses for reaction and with a very strong indebtedness. You have to be careful and mediate because it can be our next black swan. It's over. Spain endures because the European Central Bank meets all our borrowing needs, but that may not be the case in the not-so-distant future. That Europe activates the escape clause seems to give us a break, but it does not stop being bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. And what brings us to the vote today is a lot of complacency, a lot of mirage and, let me tell you, I think a lot of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u32	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u33	It's over, President. Lonely traps lead to nothing good, neither for us nor for our children nor for our grandchildren. The truth is that we do not want to participate in this, and that is why we are going to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u35	Madam Minister, a little less than a year ago you appeared before this House in order, on the basis of Article 135 of the Constitution, to request the suspension of the so-called fiscal rules. It was, indeed, at an alarming time: the worst economic and health management had caused a devastating effect; the damage continued and the negligence of his Government as well. A few weeks after Pedro Sánchez declared that the virus had been overcome, we already led the contagions in the second wave. The productive fabric continued to bleed and many of the Spaniards who were forbidden to work needed support, urgent help and the removal of burdens to survive. They were the same Spaniards who had been working for the State for many years, who often spent more than half a year of their activity only paying taxes, those who after a long search period had finally achieved a job, also those who did not lose the hope of finding one. All of them, because of the pandemic, had now been forced to stay in their homes and deserved a strong response from the public administrations for a reason of justice, patriotism, humanity, but also economic utility. As long as recovery was not a reality, the State should continue to support families and the productive fabric in order to prevent the cyclical damage at the time from becoming structural. It was about keeping us alive, saving businesses and saving jobs, being next to the Spaniards at the worst time. Perhaps, for once, it was necessary to spend more, but, of course, it was also necessary to spend better. The Organic Law on Budgetary Stability allows for extraordinary non-compliance with fiscal rules in the face of extreme emergencies. I had few such clear and extraordinary circumstances to justify the activation of that exception provided for in our Constitution, but I also had few people as unreliable and responsible as Pedro Sánchez to give him the power of an unlimited budget. Hiding in the urgency of the pandemic, he asked us for a blank cheque, a license to spend without control, a permit to borrow without limit, an authorization to shoot the deficit to levels we had never known, and without any brakes, but that brake exists and must exist. The second part of section 11.3 of the Budget Stability Act is clear: temporary deviation cannot jeopardize fiscal sustainability in the medium term. That is why it requires the approval of a rebalancing plan that allows the correction of the deficit, but you did not bring it then, did not bring it within a month as required by law and did deaf ears when asked VOX in successive propositions as in October and May of the following year. You have systematically ignored the complaints made by the AIReF and the Banco de España in this regard, and today you do not bring that plan. Look, VOX then refused to give them the blank check he was asking for, and that we were in doubt at the time. But today we know that we are not wrong, because the government of Pedro Sánchez achieved in this way the support of a House to spend without limit, and go if it did. It cleared the deficit, because Spain closed 2020 with the highest deficit in all the countries of the European Union. It raised debt to very worrying levels, exceeding 120% of GDP by the end of 2020. You have completely lost the so-called godly fear of deficit, it no longer sounds to you. But they did not achieve the goals of saving businesses, saving jobs, and being next to the Spaniards who needed it the most. Madam Minister, you have indebted us all and, with this, you have raised your salaries, kept the government of the twenty-two ministries, placed fellow citizens, watered millions of euros in the media, renewed the fleet of official cars, financed gender bars in Spain and abroad, paid huge tolls to their political partners, rescued companies linked to chavismo and fired the current expenditure. But these funds never reached families, traders, SMEs or self-employed people, who were the ones most in need. You fired the expense, yes, but you allocated it to the Pedro Sánchez project and not to the Spanish project. Stopping the queues of hunger needed quick, urgent and temporary help to deal with the pandemic, but instead, you bet on propaganda. A year and a half later we know that minimum living income has not reached a third of the target population. Retrieving employment required living businesses capable of creating it, but the reality is that despite the government's triumphalism and the creation of 225 000 public jobs, there are still 725,000 private jobs less than before the pandemic. You didn't leave a tax without going up, you didn't leave anyone behind - there you can use that phrase. We were the only country that raised taxes during the pandemic, increasing the burden on businesses and putting recovery even more at risk. Direct aids were late, scarce and very poorly designed. For a long time we were also the only country without approval of direct aid to save businesses; seven months later they were announced seven times less than the amount demanded by the sectors. But they still do not reach, especially SMEs and self-employed. It is not acceptable that only 40% of the planned 7 billion have been released. And, above all, they did not make a single economic policy decision that favors growth with competitiveness. Minister, it is not the first blank cheque that the government of Pedro Sánchez requested from the Congress of Deputies on behalf of the coronavirus. The first, the statement of the state of alarm, empowered the Government to suspend discretionaryly the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. It was illegal. We know this because it was declared by the Constitutional Court at VOX's request. This other blank check pretends that the debt deficit can be triggered without limit, it is directly suicidal, because without control and without a medium-term rebalancing plan you place Spain in a serious situation of financial vulnerability that damages the confidence of our public accounts and makes them unsustainable. A blank check to spend without control today is a blank check to raise taxes in the future, those that you always say are not going to go up and constantly go up. We reiterate that the first step, the indispensable condition for the return of sustainability in the public accounts, is that you leave, and that will be sooner than later. So don't count on us today, because once again, even if there's only VOX left, we'll tell them no. Because, once again, there's only VOX left. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. For the second year in a row, the Government is obliged to request from this House the extraordinary suspension of the so-called fiscal rules. At a particularly delicate time in the recovery process in which we are immersed, when all economic indicators point to a definitive take-off, there is already a consensus among the main analysts on the disastrous effects that an early withdrawal of economic stimulus launched by the Executive from the start of this crisis would have. Some of these same analysts, by the way, served as a fateful endorsement, certainly auric, of the austere policies that reaped the incipient economic recovery of 2011 and condemned us to a new crisis, this time longer and even more painful. Well, it looks like some of them have learned today. And I say well that some, because then there are the others, that is, the Spanish right, those are neither expected nor expected. One word of self-criticism has not yet been heard, I do not say escape at the end of the austere paradigm. We have still had to listen here today to Mrs Rodríguez in the middle of the pandemic calling for an adjustment plan - she has called it a rebalancing plan -; an adjustment plan at this stage, just when everyone, including her European political leaders in government posts, is doing exactly the opposite, Mrs Rodríguez, exactly the opposite. Again you evoke the image of that lonely walker in the desert who looks around and proclaims that of everyone has been lost less me. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, this debate and its subsequent vote, despite opening a new path as necessary as it is extraordinary for the public accounts next year, should be nothing more than a mere process, while the dilemma is no longer what to do today. Or is there any serious alternative on the table beyond the ongoing expansionary policies? No, rather today's dilemma is what we must do tomorrow in the near future, something you have anticipated, Minister, in your speech. That is why I believe that the debate that Ecofin opened last weekend for the reform of the tax rules is much more relevant to the issues that are on this agenda today. With regard to the equivalent procedure that we approved at the time, last year, in that first suspension voted in this House on October 20, I then allowed myself to quote the great Walter Benjamin in that admonition where he warned about the need to activate the emergency brake - he said - on a direct locomotive to the abyss. I was then moderately optimistic, only moderately - a hue that, by the way, warned Member Botran of the CUP - about the possibility of finally making Benjamin a case and correcting once and for all the neoliberal drift that had taken the course of European construction since Maastricht. Well, Mr Botran, ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to define. In the coming weeks and months, not only the future of the European Union is being played out, but Spain's concrete inclusion in that common project to which our country has always aspired. Certainly we will have to overcome the resistance of some governments of the so-called Northern Europe, but no one should question the urgent need for a comprehensive reform of the rules of play as defined in the Stability and Growth Pact. In the last report of the Banco de España published just a few weeks ago, in August, the regulator warned that with the current regulatory framework - I quote textually - Economic and Monetary Union would need to maintain a tax surplus of 1.1% of GDP for twenty years in a row in order to reduce the debt ratio to 60%. The Banco de España itself reminds us that in the last 25 years the euro area has experienced an average primary deficit of 0,4 %. How should this comprehensive reform of European tax rules be guided? Madam Minister, in the view of the Confederal Parliamentary Group, Spain cannot give up at least these three objectives. Firstly, to develop a genuine stabilisation tool for the euro area, which is resistant to all kinds of economic and financial shocks. In this regard, the Copernican turn of the Central Bank's monetary policies over those implemented in 2010 and 2011 has been key. It should be recalled that the bank's Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme has made it possible to place 140 billion Spanish public debt, while the cost of outstanding debt recorded a new historical minimum in June this year of just 1.65%. It has also been a milestone in the new mechanisms for the issuance of pooled debt, which has led some, even, to proclaim the birth of a new fiscal subject called Europe. In any case, Minister, you will agree with me that we are still in a premature stage and the consolidation tasks in this field have just begun. Secondly, Spain must undergo a transformation of its productive apparatus as it has rarely seen in its history. The climate challenge and digital transformations open up a unique opportunity so that soon, this time yes, and paraphrasing Alfonso Guerra, Spain does not know her nor the mother who gave birth to her. Your banker, Mrs Calviño, has brought to this Ecofin forum proposals on green investment accounting that I believe are pointing in that direction. And, in any case, and again, we cannot afford to waste the flow of European funds on fattening the old obsolete model of beach and brick, which has led us to bear one of the highest structural unemployment rates in Europe. Thirdly, you raised, Minister, the most important of the objectives, to which the two previous ones are subordinate: to put an end to the galloping inequality that has been mastered in our cities and villages over the last few years and months. According to the latest living conditions survey, the number of people suffering from severe material shortages has increased by 1,100 000 compared to 2019, to 3,3 million. In the same period the number of millionaires has for the first time exceeded the million in Spain, according to the title ufana the magazine Forbes in June of this year. All this is taking place while, for example, the minimum living income now reaches about 700,000 people, a step forward without doubt, but still far from reaching the 2.3 million people planned for its coverage. Finally, Madam Minister, I cannot fail to refer to the position that some European states such as Austria and the Netherlands have claimed as far as it is concerned. They apparently intended to return to the stability and growth programme next year, once the escape clause had been suspended and until a full agreement had been reached for its reform. Returning to Benjamin, this would be tantamount to finally clearing the Spanish locomotive through the abyss and, therefore, it is simply implantable for the interests of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u39	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. Good afternoon, minister. Pleased to discuss tax policies with you again. In fact, this is the second time this debate has taken place on the assessment of whether we are suffering a pandemic and thus justifying the suspension of tax rules. For the second time we say yes, that obviously thousands of families, self-employed workers and SMEs still today continue to suffer the consequences of the economic stoppage as a result of the crisis of COVID-19. While it is true that the data are more optimistic than those recorded last year, we cannot be sure that this recovery is being very uneven between sectors and groups, some of which are suffering a lot. To give two examples, the Spanish state is the champion, with the youth unemployment record, which is around 35%. Nor can we make it clear that today, since the pandemic began, there are 800,000 more people living below the poverty line, figures that seem unacceptable to us. That is why we remain convinced that it is now more than ever necessary for public administrations to have all the tools at their disposal to alleviate the disasters of this crisis. We have said this on many occasions: in extraordinary situations, extraordinary measures; in situations of crisis and economic recession, expansive policies. But being able to apply expansive policies faces frontally with the austere wall built by the PP and the right there by 2012, and faces frontally with those who, as a solution to the 2008 crisis, prescribed cuts and precariousness. It is clear that this did not go well and that it impoverished society as a whole. For too many years we have been paying for the consequences of a Financial Sustainability Act that has expressed without palliatives to autonomous communities and municipalities. A law that imposed rules as unfair as the rule of spending, such an absurd rule that prevented the administration closest to the citizenry, such as the municipalities, from allocating its surplus in investments for the well-being of its neighbours and neighbors, and we therefore agree that it will not apply during this next year. Despite this suspension of fiscal rules, the ministry has set benchmarks for the different sub-sectors of public administration that we don't like at all. We see how for next year the reference target of the autonomous communities has fallen by one tenth. Meanwhile, the Central Administration re-aggregates 3.9% of the 5% deficit. We are talking about more than three quarters of the deficit being reserved for the Central Administration, a new intention of centrifuging deficit targets, and we have already warned you, Minister, that this is not the way for us. But we are also talking about a suspension of the tax rules for a transitional period which seems to be coming to an end next year, but under no circumstances is this temporary suspension synonymous with repealing these rules, and this inevitably leads us to open up the debate on what to do with these unfair rules. We know that we have already started talking about the reform of these tax rules at European level and we are asking for courage. Courage for not returning to standards that centrifuge deficit targets, which limit the investment capacity of the autonomous communities and municipalities, while the Central Administration increases year after year. Validity to repeal article 135 of the Constitution, which prioritizes the payment of the debt over ensuring the welfare state. Courageous so that, in the coming years, European funds can act fully, and this will only be possible by removing the restrictions so that public administrations can carry out expansionary policies and structural investments. We can't escape that still won't be enough, they can still do much more. That is why we are again demanding today the EUR 5 billion fund that they promised the municipalities and that they need so much. Only with a radical shift in the current model before the COVID-19 crisis can we guarantee a strong welfare state and an exit from the crisis that leaves no one behind. That is why we say yes today that the municipalities can invest their surplus so that the territorial administrations can invest in education and health and yes to the repeal of the Montoro rules, which caused so much damage to society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u41	Thank you, President. Minister, I'm going to tell you a story: Maite and Pau are a couple who have a company and two children, a company that worked very well before the pandemic started or broke out. Today Maite and Pau have many outstanding bills and also have debts with the bank. There are millions of Maites and Paus, and there are millions of Maites and Paus because it doesn't work. Spain is not doing well today, Minister, because while they, while the millions of Mailes and Paus are struggling to reach the end of the month, or are not coming, their government is raising the share of the self-employed twice in the midst of the crisis; their government allows the electric oligopoly to cover the highest light bills in Europe - in fact, today I think we have a new record - and this government, their government, does not give them the aid as they do in other countries of Europe; and, at the same time, their government allows the Spanish large morose companies not to pay more than EUR 80 billion in debt to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. to the Mates and the Paus. And this is up to you, Minister, and you don't. A deficit reference rate of 0.6%, as you propose, means 12 billion less for Catalonia this year 2022. Moreover, if there are no extraordinary funds COVID - which will not be because it has already announced it - you will already explain to us how we must meet the urgent and inescapable needs of the social, business, health and educational spheres. You know, Minister, that in the specific case of Catalonia the maximum permitted by the Spanish Government itself has been met, i.e. 1,1 %. Therefore, maintaining 0.6 % and, moreover, not putting in place an extraordinary COVID fund is as much as thinking that 30 December will end instantly and completely all the needs arising from the pandemic; that is, ladies and gentlemen, it is as much as believing in miracles. Junts per Catalunya is not going to support this irresponsibility, and we are not worth the excuse that this is less bad than all this, because our political responsibility is to change what doesn't work, not to support it. Minister, they're not just asking us to give white paper without conditions, they're asking us to give up the budget expansion that the Government of the Government of Catalonia demands for its own finances. I'm finishing up. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Rumores]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u42	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u43	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Minister. Today I am replacing my colleague Ferran Bell, and he is going to allow me to address this issue very briefly by moving his reflections. I believe that the communication put to the vote is clear: if there is still a pandemic situation that could lead to the modification of these rules in the budget. We, of course, are aware of the evidence. The pandemic situation exists and, as we said a year ago, exceptional measures must be taken in exceptional situations, in addition to the need to maintain a certain balance, a balance between the risk of indebtedness and the need for such indebtedness. It is true that resources are needed to meet ERTEs, which need resources to meet casualties, which need resources for this whole pandemic situation, but we also ask that these resources be allocated to what also helps to recover economically. Therefore, direct aid to the self-employed, SMEs and all those people who suffer directly from this pandemic situation. Before I finished, I wanted to do a reflection. Last year my colleague, Ferran Bel, told him about the municipalities and various issues, some of which have been resolved and others not, so today I reiterate the need for some sort of solution to the negative liquidations of the municipalities in previous years. For our part, we will endorse this vote, we will support it, aware of the exceptional pandemic situation, but also aware of the maximum that says that there is no public money, but that there is only taxpayers' money and therefore the need to maintain a balance between indebtedness and budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u44	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The current economic situation is marked by uncertainty in the face of the pandemic crisis, which overlapped with the one begun in 2008, from which we had not yet emerged in terms of social justice. To do so, an expanded economic and fiscal policy is needed that strengthens public services and enhances recovery. However, although the Government, under the extension, In application of the European safeguard clause, maintains the suspension of the tax rules, sets indicative reference rates with respect to the deficit that limit the capacity of public expenditure. Austerity has been shown not to be the solution. Therefore, limiting non-financial spending can result in a cut in public spending on basic services, such as health or education, with the working classes and the most vulnerable groups most affected by these cuts. In addition, it should be noted that once again the Central State Administration reserves the greatest capacity to incur deficits. Thus, of the 5% of GDP fixed for the year 2022, only 0.6 is left to the autonomous communities, less than in 2021 -0.7- and which will fall to 0.4 and 0.2 in 2023 and 2024, and zero for the local entities, thus restricting their ability to improve social coverage policies. We will not oppose - we will abstain, in any case - but I would like your offer of dialogue with everyone in the budgets to be real, unlike last year, who did not want to dialogue with the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u46	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u47	...and it's in bad budgets for Galicia. If they rectify and the budgets are good socially and for our country, they will have the BNG supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u48	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one will be surprised to say that Spain is going through an exceptional situation of extraordinary emergency, if we use the words that are contained in the Constitution and in the Budget Stability Act. We see it on the street, in our close circles, and we have even discussed it at the first item on today's agenda. On the basis of the clear exceptional situation we are going through for the purpose of suspending fiscal rules, this point that we are now discussing on the agenda gives us an added opportunity to share reflections on the economic impact of the pandemic and the response given by the Government. I would like to speak, first of all, minister, of prudence. Spain closed the year 2020 leading the worst macroeconomic data. The economy that fell the most in GDP data, the economy with the most deficit, the economy with the most percentage of debt over GDP and also the economy with the highest youth unemployment rate was the Spanish one. The government is now announcing to us the recovery, but we must remember that when one falls into a deep pit any sign of comparative improvement with past data does not cease to be a distorted data. Minister, I ask for caution; I ask for humility and prudence. Do we celebrate the economic recovery from Citizens? Of course, but we also believe it is necessary to work on the path of just, robust and lasting recovery. That is why we will always criticise and try to improve all the proposals of this government that we understand to be patchy and not in line with the growth and compliance with the tax rules committed to Europe, because Europe has already warned us that the measures to be taken must be timely, temporary and selective, in order not to jeopardize sustainability in the medium term. You mentioned in your speech to the European Commission about this safeguard clause, of permissiveness in the suspension of tax rules, but you did not say anything about what the European Commission also warned about, which stated that countries like Spain, which have a high debt ratio, must take prudent measures with a view to 2022. I must confess to you, Minister, that I am personally concerned and that in my parliamentary group, Citizens, we are concerned about the possible path of imbalances in public accounts and the lack of measures to control public expenditure that Spain has entered. You have made a determined effort to point out that your Government is responsible, but understand that for us, for most of the ladies and gentlemen we are sitting here, even for most of the Spaniards this government has lost credibility in the management of public money, and I refer to the Plus Ultra case or the refusal to set up an independent office for the management of European funds. And it's not just our concern. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself has also shown doubts in this regard. The AIReF has predicted that the debt, now at 120 %, will continue to exceed at least 100 % by 2030 and will not be at controlled levels until 2050. The AIReF insists that the Stability Act is not suspended, and European fiscal supervision is not suspended either. The only thing suspended is the tax rules, and therefore, in the opinion of the AIReF, fiscal supervision is more important than ever. That is why, from my parliamentary group, Citizens, we demand rules, a containment plan, because not having it leads to budgetary chaos and irrecoverable imbalance for generations to come. Can you tell us from your government what will happen when Europe reactivates the budgetary adjustments from 2023 onwards, as you have already announced? I suppose everyone is aware that the money from the recovery funds could be frozen in the coming years for countries with excessive deficits that do not implement the recommendations of the European Union for their reduction. Where is the rebalancing plan, Minister? What plans do you have to comply with Europe? We want to know what decisions they're going to make to get our accounts back on track. I was telling you, we have doubts, totally justified doubts, because their failure in economic matters is constant. You have forgotten, your government of the municipalities. It has already been said here: where is that fund of 5 billion committed to the consistories? And what about the 7 billion they promised in February - stressed, February - for the self-employed, of whom only about 25 billion have been distributed? I remind you that they were aid announced - I open quotes - 'urgent for the hard weeks ahead' - I close quotes - as President Sánchez said that day in Congress. Good thing they were urgent! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this agreement because we are responsible and coherent; responsibility and coherence that we also demand from your Government. Minister, when decisions are stopped you enter the world of excuses, and the pandemic cannot be the excuse for irresponsible management. The challenge we have as a country ahead is magnanimous, and through it we demand a rebalancing plan that will make your speech more credible. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to your Government that we should work together for a fairer and more responsible country, in line with the demands of the Spanish people, because that is what they pay us for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u51	Thank you, President. Let's go, minister. My group will, of course, vote in favour, as it did in 2020, on the understanding that the extraordinary emergency situation remains, for the purposes provided for in the Constitution and the Stability Act. I would also like to recall that when the European Union first agreed in March 2020 that the principle of budgetary stability should be temporarily suspended in order to respond to the enormous challenge we face as a result of COVID, this group, the EAJ-PNV Group, and also other political groups have already called for the suspension of fiscal rules, on the basis of the articles mentioned today. At that time the Government was very reluctant to this suspension, but finally rectified and agreed in October 2020. My group understands that we are still in an exceptional situation as a result of the COVID pandemic. It is true that vaccination is progressing well and that economic activity is gradually recovering, but the impacts of the pandemic in social, economic and health terms are still high and the pandemic and uncertainty today persist. What is proposed here, of course, is in line with what is stated by the AIReF, which advises to maintain the escape clause, in line with what is also agreed by Europe, which once again allows such a temporary deviation from the requirements of budgetary stability, expenditure rule and public debt until 2023, which will also allow the implementation of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism to the various governments, to the different administrations, without being constrained by fiscal rules which, of course, have served little to resolve previous crises and far less will serve a situation that remains exceptional, in which, in the opinion of the Basque Group, an expansive policy is needed to achieve not only economic recovery, but also the transformation of an economic model towards another green, equal, sustainable and inclusive one. As has already been said, resource constraints or early withdrawal of stimulus could have harmful effects on recovery, and this has also been warned by the European institutions. For my group, it is necessary that, in a context such as the current one, administrations can maximize public investment by using all the resources available to them before they re-operate these tax rules. Europe has understood this and its bet is clear. Recommends expansive policies to boost economic activity, spending and public investment, with a stake for recovery and transformation also through Next Generation funds, so that they reach citizens, especially those who need it most. Our group shares this strategy for Europe, which is also being moved here today through the agreement that we are going to vote on; a measure that benefits not only the municipalities and the autonomous communities, but also the Government, because with this agreement there is no obligation to present a path of deficit and public debt for the next period, to which all public administrations would have to adhere and which would also have to be approved by this Parliament as a first step in the preparation of the general state budgets. This measure will continue to make it possible for all administrations, including local authorities, to have all their funds available, as well as those derived from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, on the one hand, to continue to maintain, strengthen and guarantee the provision of public services, support for citizens and support for vital sectors of the economy, or, on the other hand, to meet their own competences, such as health, social, educational and employment, and, on the other hand, to lay the foundations for an energy, ecological and digital recovery and transformation that will, of course, guarantee social cohesion. Europe's opportunity must be taken advantage of, but it is also true that the debate on the medium- and long-term fiscal strategy for the consolidation of public accounts is still pending. In this context, Europe will again talk about the return to those fiscal rules, although our group, of course, expects it to be done in another way, and it is that we will need new fiscal rules, because the world for which the current ones were designed, even if they are suspended, has little or nothing to do with the present world. We cannot return to that austerity, which has served little. It is therefore necessary to build on the consensus that exists in Brussels for its reformulation, as well as the majority that is available in this House also for the reformulation of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability. It should not be an immediate debate, but it should be addressed. As has already been said today, we do not share that the existence of a reference rate implies liability. Most administrations have acted and act with fiscal responsibility even in times of crisis. Would a common compulsory rate be equitable when all administrations do not start from the same situation? Is a common compulsory rate that limits spending to improve the life of citizens or limits investment to boost growth perhaps not an irresponsibility in a context such as the current one? In short, our vote in this House will be in favour of a decision that is taken at a time when we believe that it is still exceptional and that allows the Government, the autonomous communities and the local authorities a more real framework for presenting new budgets and putting at the service of the citizens the best public health, social and educational services, which, as I have said, lay the foundations for a green, equal, inclusive, digital economic recovery that will have people at the centre of their policies, betting on an expansive policy as a lever of growth and investment and to remove cuts and that precariousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u52	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u53	Eskerrik asko, president. Let's go, minister. A new spending ceiling: a question that opens the door to the budgets for 2022 and a new procedure in which the arguments, at least ours, are going to be very similar to those we already put out from this very rostrum a year ago. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we are still in a pandemic. It is clear that this represents an extraordinary emergency situation, and therefore it is proposed that it should not be implemented, that articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability remain in suspense, something which we naturally agree with. Not in vain, we have been putting on the table for years the need to return to the municipalities the decision-making capacity on the expenditure that the State through the action and inaction of successive governments maintains unjustly curtailed and maimed by this articulation. Madam Minister, I will repeat to you again what we have told you so many times since Euskal Herria Bildu. I say this once again and have also been told by some parliamentary groups, including ERC and the Basque Nationalist Party: Article 135 of the Constitution and the Budget Stability Act must be repealed. This must be done in order to be able to implement progressive policies, so that the budgets of our institutions, of our institutions, but also of the municipalities of the whole State, are decided where they should be decided. Municipal autonomy must be restored to the place from which it should never have left, and for this it is essential to repeal these laws. And this issue should be a priority not only for the sovereignist forces, such as ours, but also for the progressive forces and the Government. We know very well that when it comes to presenting the balance sheets in Europe, it has been good for the State that the local or autonomous institutions were subject to this rule and that they complied with it, so that those who did not meet the public deficit, such as the State, could, for example, save their faces and present satisfactory global accounts, precisely thanks to the municipalities, to which their rights and autonomy are violated. These communities, these institutions do not need the guardianship of any State in order to be able to dispose of these funds as they see fit, and they have also shown that they are doing so well and responsibly. In conclusion, the Budget Stability Act and Article 135, as amended in that shameful reform of August 2011, can and should be repealed because they have the necessary majority, the sufficient majority to be able to do so. It is a question of political will and it is also a question of fairness and of doing the right thing. If next year Europe does not allow spending rules to remain in suspense, what is the position of the municipalities? Do we return to the previous situation and would the state guardianship prevent them from having their funds available to meet the needs of the people of their municipalities, or will they do anything to remedy this situation? Two years of the legislature have passed, two years of the legislature in which the Government has reversed some necessary and important issues, and yet it maintains others in a limbo in which no one seems to want to enter. They have sometimes responded by framing this deplorable situation in the context of holding the People's Party accountable for the legacy they left behind. All right, but the inheritances, if you don't agree with them, are rejected. They are rejected if they leave more inconveniences than benefits, if the damage they cause is greater than profit. If that inheritance is not rejected, Minister, what happens is that it is assumed as its own. It is no longer the responsibility of those who bequeathed it, but of those who manage it, and those who manage it today are the current Government. Two years have passed, the Budget Stability Act is part of that legacy, which, if not amended, is already yours, Minister, as is the gag law, labour reform and so many other outstanding issues, which are already from today and now and on which it is not possible to look at the rear-view mirror if it is not to settle accounts with a past that must be reversed. If this Government does not change the legacy left by the People's Party, this Government makes it its own. I come back to 2022, and the non-financial expenditure limit for next year is a minimal increase over 2001. However, it is true that this minimum percentage allows you to say that it is the highest spending ceiling in history. Not obstinate, even being aware that the economic effort and the investment capacity should be greater in order to be able to deal fairly with the crisis we are facing, since our formation, Euskal Herria Bildu, we are going to give green light, thus allowing the start of the process and the negotiation towards the budgets for 2022, budgets in which the crisis arising from the pandemic must be faced in the only way possible what is there for the future to be better, and worse than what we are already experiencing, with more public investment, with more investment to reach those who need it most. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal, although we do so with all these reservations that we have pointed out and in the same way as we did last year, with the intention of opening a path towards budgets that will allow us to address from the dialogue a negotiation focused on the claims of Basque citizens with the aim of achieving improvements and progress in order to dignify the lives of Basques and Basques. This is our main objective, and with this conviction, and in this endeavour we will address the budgetary negotiation that is being opened from now on. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u55	Thank you, President. We will abstain fundamentally from what has already been said about how the deficit is being distributed in relation to the autonomous communities and municipalities. However, as we have already expressed in the same debate last year, we are fully in favour of the suspension of spending rules and the breaking of that taboo, this neoliberal consensus, which at the time has even led to PSOE and PP's agreement to reform 135. This neoliberal consensus, after all, means prioritizing the private sector, private banking, against the public sector, despite the fact that this implies cuts in social rights. Suspending the rules of spending therefore implies a parenthesis in this neoliberal consensus. It has been given by the pandemic and because the European Union has allowed it, but here it seems that it only changes its economic policy not according to social needs, but to what the European Union allows, that is, when the European Union called for the reform of 135, that Constitution has been changed, which for other demands is untouchable, it is said that it is the one we have given ourselves among all, sort of Constitution. It has changed to less than a rooster and it is also now allowed to suspend the rules of expenditure only because the European Union gives this green light. The pandemic will probably pass and this extraordinary situation will pass, but the debt will remain. It is a structural issue of neoliberalism and capitalism. In view of this, it must be made clear that it continues to stifle social measures and budgets. Therefore, they are not extraordinary measures to be resorted to in a very timely manner, but any left-wing government, as the European Union says, should consider what has already been called upon to do, to repeal Article 135, to repeal the Act on budgetary stability and to carry out an audit of the debt that identifies where the illegitimate debt is, which drowns public budgets and prevents social policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have the floor, Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that I continue to be drawn to the self-congratulation that all members of the Government go up to the rostrum to talk about the great things or how well Spain is working. Today the minister said that last year more money was spent than ever and that next year even more money is going to be spent than ever. But it has also been said today that there are eight hundred thousand more people below the poverty line and that almost 40% of young people do not have jobs. Therefore, it means that we spend a lot but we spend it very badly. That's the problem, it's spent very badly. But they haven't even had the details, because this is empty once again: take advantage and the last five - or I don't know how they can do it - take off now, make some gesture towards society. Turns out we're spending more than ever, but when you're going to make the purchase, what happens? That tomatoes are worth more than ever. When you're going to put on gas, it's worth more than ever. When you pay - well, the light will be discussed later -, you pay more than ever. So, what's the use of having more money than ever? Who's the problem solving? It will be solving it for you, so that you make the budgets more comfortable, because the municipalities and the autonomous communities will not. You come up here and talk about education and health, but those who pay for education and health are the autonomous communities - not the Government of Spain - which have the competences. You live much more comfortable, of course, you don't have to do any spending rules, you don't have to do anything and you live much more comfortable, but those who are looking after the citizens are the municipalities, to which you owe EUR 5 billion. It's very good to get the headline out in the newspaper, in the news, etc.: EUR 5 billion, but they haven't seen it again. And the same applies to the 7 billion for self-employed, who have not seen the money either. You make the announcements, but then the money doesn't reach the people. And what reality do we have? People are paying more and more taxes, the shopping basket is getting more and more expensive, the light is getting more and more expensive, and with you there are more and more people in the government and there are more and more advisors in the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u58	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Council of Ministers forwards to us the updated version of some measures that are dragging the Spanish economy into stratospheric indebtedness and, as a consequence, to a gradual ruin, which will suffer above all the generations of the present and also those that will come. The calamity of public accounts always hovers over Spain when it governs the Socialist Party. They are their impoverishing economic policies. They disguise them as progress, but we still have in memory the memory of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's sluggish legislature, which ended up reforming, to the race and with the garbage contracts of that infamous legislature, article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which Forum rejected on a plan. Ladies and gentlemen, of the deceptive commitments of budgetary stability and financial sustainability and of the breaches that lead to ever deeper uncertainty, we have a very recent example with the government's resignation from reforming the autonomous financing system, on which the essential public services: health, education, social services and dependency revolve. This has been the case for seven years, seriously affecting the management of the autonomous communities of common system, uniquely Asturias. An AIReF report keeps the alert on medium-term prospects and augurs for the fall of autonomous resources, close to a point of GDP. In short, we are faced with a government addicted to indiscipline in public spending, which unfortunately results in the impoverishment of society, with a certain risk to employment, social care and pensions. With such a drift, Spain is engaged in the rescue to finance its debt, and hence what proceeds today in defense of national sovereignty and for the general interest of the Spaniards of the present and future is to vote against. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Rodríguez, in your speech you accuse us of not respecting the deadlines and not fulfilling our democratic obligation, and you have described it as shame. So, having blocked the General Council of the Judiciary - or kidnapped, because we have now learned that it is yours - and other constitutional organs more than a thousand days, what do you think? More than a thousand days of lockdown. How easy it is for the People's Party to demand that constitutional mandates be fulfilled! But they don't like it that much, do they? [[Applauds]] Mrs Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, political quality is not acquired in gifted masters, it has or does not have, and you show that you do not have it. In politics decisions have to be made when one rules and when one is in the opposition, and there are decisions that are dichotomous: yes or no. The Government is asking whether we appreciate that we are in an exceptional situation to take exceptional measures, and the answer is yes or no. What's this yellow stuff? What is this about abstaining in an emergency situation like this country is doing? But they've got us used to it. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros - he's already gone; he's already got his YouTube video and he's gone - tells us here, day after day, when he goes up to this rostrum, that we're going to raise taxes. But he did not know, because they vote against when the Government also presents tax cuts. Not long ago, the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 10 %, the VAT from the light which you raised, Mrs Rodriguez, and the suspension of the 7 % electricity tax, which you put in, Mrs Rodriguez. You, forbearance. Those who ask to lower taxes vote against. Be clear, you cannot do and say one thing and then vote the opposite. You are parties full of contradictions, the right and the right. In Catalonia today begins the school year, we have explained it many times. I'm gonna try to explain it to you like a story, see if you can explain a story to them. Once upon a time, not in a very distant country, not, in this very country, in Spain, that you managed a crisis, the financial crisis... Don't get nervous, Mrs. Rodriguez, let me talk. [[Mrs Rodríguez Herrer utters words that are not perceived]] And it was once that as a solution to that financial crisis you decided to raise all taxes, decided to cut the welfare state, with the only excuse that there was nothing else to do. Instead, now this Government, the coalition Government, the Progressive Government, has shown us that many things can be done, that the welfare state can be protected, that resources can be sought outside our country and that the social, economic and health demands that our citizens need can be met. Once upon a time, their rescue and their inaction caused our country to lag behind for almost ten years in recovering the GDP we had before the financial crisis. It was a slow recovery - the Minister of the Presidency said earlier - it was an unfair recovery and it was also a corrupt recovery. Today it is taking just over a year, with a social shield, with investment, promoting consumption and, above all, seeking the balance of the financial accounts, because we are not leaving the accounts to free will or giving carte blanche, but, as the Minister of Finance has very well explained, there are rules to follow. Therefore, we are offering a quick recovery, a fair recovery, a transparent recovery. So, end of story. They lie to us between what they say, what they do and what they vote. They lied to us with the light. How many times has the issue of the receipt of light come out in this debate that we are having in the afternoon? We still remember how Minister Soria defends here, in this rostrum, the great kindnesses that the new tariff system had. Today they criticize him, and the members of his own party say that we have to make structural reforms, they demand it from us. For what? To reform things that you imposed on our country. It was you. We've got a lot of work to do. Like I said, they lied to us with the light. They've lied to the Madriders. Ayuso promised a great tax reduction: seventy cents a year. Its great electoral flag, lowering taxes: seventy cents a year. They lied to us about the bailout. Right here in the gallery, they said it wouldn't cost the citizens a euro, and we're all paying for it. They lied to us about labor reform, they lied to us about Gürtel. So end of story, Mrs. Rodriguez. The story ends up sitting in opposition. Assuage him. It is not a triumphalist discourse, but it is not a catastrophic or apocalyptic discourse either. We are being asked to consider whether there is an exceptional situation. Of course there is that exceptional situation. The government is asking us if we approve the spending ceiling. Of course, we do approve the spending ceiling, because it is the foreground of new General State Budgets that this country needs to offer a fair recovery. I will tell you the title of the story, which I have forgotten; the title of the story is the tale of the ashes, because you told us that we would not have General State Budgets by 2021; you said that we would not have vaccination; you went to boycott the European funds; our Government's foreign policy has been criticized by you; you criticize the recovery figures. The International Monetary Fund has said that the Spanish economy will grow the most next year. So his tale is the tale of the ashes. Let it be, this Parliament is plural and by a lot of noise that both the right and the right are more, although we are less silent, those leaving out the cry and exercising the word, as the President, the dialogue, the search for agreement, the pact and the consensus told us at the beginning of the plenary session, we are looking for the progress of our country. Because although it is easier for some to give to the beak than to the shovel, we are more - I insist - those who believe in our duty to be here as Members and as Members of Parliament so that, hand in hand, we seek the common well-being of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u63	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the entire bill establishing the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System. I should like to inform you that the Plural Parliamentary Group has requested the enactment of this bill. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendments as a whole. For the introduction of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the matter before us today, let me begin by reminding and devoting my first words to the people affected by the serious fires that are still taking place in Sierra Bermeja, Malaga. Our most affectionate memory and embrace to the family of the deceased forest firefighter and the two wounded while fighting fire in extreme weather conditions. It is a fire with serious consequences also for the neighbours of Estepona, Benahavis, Genalguacil, Jubrique, Faraján, Júzcar, Alpandiere and Pujerra, in which more than 2600 people have already been evacuated. We follow very closely its evolution with all the available measures and support that the Board demands in a dangerous fire, which we trust can go forward in the next few hours. Until it is under control, let us remember how important it is to always follow the indications of Civil Protection. [[Applauds]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you today to request your support for the draft law establishing the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System and therefore the vote against the amendments to the whole presented. As you know, this government is determined to tackle the energy transition and decarbonisation of the economy by ensuring maximum consumer protection and greater efficiency in the energy sector, in June 2018, in 2020, in 2021 and tomorrow with additional measures. In these years we have been working on the three components of the electricity bill, taxation, the structure and prices of electricity and regulated costs, in order to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of electrification, energy efficiency and penetration of renewables in an orderly way, necessary all three in the transition in which we are immersed. The draft law it submitted acts directly on this last component, the one on regulated costs, in particular on charges relating to support for historical renewable energies, industrial cogeneration and waste management and recovery. The National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System is designed to group together the economic contributions of all those who sell energy in the Spanish market, electricity, gas and oil, and thus contribute to the financing of the key energy costs for the entire energy system. The CO2 emission reduction and renewable penetration targets are national targets for the energy system as a whole, not just for the electricity system. If electricity is the most efficient and effective way to decarbonise, it should not be the one to support alone the support for cogeneration, the historical take-off of renewables or the proper energy management of waste. Therefore, the fund has been designed in such a way that contributions are made on the basis of the volume of energy that each marketer sells on the market. It is therefore a mechanism that redistributes effort across the whole energy sector, a measure similar to that of other countries in our environment, with different formats. Let us think of Germany, where an additional CO2 tax has been introduced, which imposes all technologies, electricity, gas, diesel or diesel, and which they use to finance support for renewables. This mechanism that creates the bill under discussion today is key, because in the process of transforming the electrical system we are carrying out we need clear signals in favour of the efficiency of the system, in favour of the management of the change of energy model and in favour of electrification. That is why we have designed the fund aligned with the proposals of the European Union and the energy specialized agencies, such as the International Energy Agency or the International Renewable Energy Agency. We start from the same premise: if the decarbonisation of the energy system as a whole is our goal, all energy agents must bear their costs. The promotion and support needed for renewables a few years ago now allows us to enjoy solutions with very low operating costs. The learning curve they have experienced has been enormously positive for the Spanish economy as a whole, also for the industrial fabric, making them the most competitive and cheap technology to generate energy. But we must maintain the commitment we made to those who committed themselves to it during the agreed period, a commitment equivalent to supporting the most efficient options for industry, such as cogeneration or waste management. It is a commitment to which is added the support of all energy vectors in the context in which we discuss this bill: electricity, natural gas, wholesale petroleum products or the management and sale of liquefied petroleum gases. However, for the companies concerned and consumers to adapt correctly, so as not to overburden, it is necessary to propose a gradual and progressive five-year timetable. This is a prudent time to adapt gradually, changing consumption patterns, betting on new technologies, allowing the replacement of one with another more efficient, betting on electrification wherever possible. We will be attentive to their evolution. The requirements of the fund for the following financial year, together with the demand forecasts, shall be reviewed each year to determine the contribution of the various traders. These changes must be made with the utmost caution, of course, with the utmost caution also for the most sensitive consumers. We therefore include in the draft law a number of exemptions and compensations to certain sectors and consumers: exemptions for the sale of energy for storage facilities, gas or petroleum products to produce electricity; exemptions for kerosene; exemptions for agricultural products or for navigation, provided that it is not for recreational navigation, for fishing, for renewable gases and for biofuels. We also want to ensure that double taxation is avoided, safeguarding consumption for which there is no alternative and supporting sensitive sectors, as I have just indicated. To this end, the law also provides compensation for key, strategic sectors that need support during the transition years. For example, for electro-intensive consumers, a basic industry essential for the progress of the economy in our country, for industrial gas consumers or for professional carriers, compensations that ensure the proper implementation of the fund, while relying on our productive fabric and strengthening the industrial fabric in our country, ensuring its competitiveness and modernization vis-à-vis international competitors. Also with critical exemptions and compensations for economic actors in rural areas, such as agriculture, so that they are not affected. We add measures to make it possible for citizens of small municipalities to adapt. These are areas that deserve to benefit from electrification, electric mobility, renewables, efficiency in their homes, and to which we also pay attention outside this bill. This is the motivation that led us to introduce special support and impulse for small municipalities in the transition, through coverage in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. It is essential that these resources deploy special attention and allow the design of specific plans in rural areas, specific support that we materialize in aid lines, both in the programme for the rehabilitation and energy efficiency of buildings and in sustainable urban design, with 125 million, which can be expanded up to 250 to expand renewable energies, electric mobility, energy rehabilitation of households or changes of boilers by heat pump, all with a special plus for each of the beneficiaries who live in municipalities of 5,000 inhabitants or in municipalities with urban agglomerations of up to 20,000 inhabitants. We subsidize projects to improve energy efficiency in public buildings and infrastructure, promote self-consumption, recharge infrastructure, boost the electric vehicle or local energy communities. They will reach up to 85% of the investment and even 100% in the case of comprehensive projects with a major impact on the energy transition of the municipality as a whole. We will have support for the improvement of the thermal envelope in buildings in rural areas, the improvement of the energy efficiency of thermal installations and the improvement of lighting, provided that we save 30% of non-renewable primary energy or improve their total energy rating by at least one letter with respect to the initial rating. These are complementary and important measures that will allow us to transform our system of energy production and consumption in parallel. They are the most effective tools to reduce the price that millions of families pay for energy and that will allow to accompany during this transition the investments that each of them wants to carry out. This fund, together with the proposal for a reduction in CO2 revenue, which is also under way in this House, will allow a reduction in the bill for domestic consumers of around 15% and around 15% for SMEs. The fund has a social and redistribution vocation. It is the families with lower incomes that have to bear, in proportion, greater weight in their energy basket compared to the domestic economy and, therefore, will be the main beneficiaries of its creation, as well as of the package of measures in process and next adoption, a benefit that will be the greater we are able to displace the fossil fuels from their consumption, a change that, as I said, is boosted and further supported by the Recovery Plan. This measure is economically viable and socially just and joins a series of existing measures that will be introduced to further protect vulnerable groups. It is therefore essential to expand the coverage of the electric social bond and create the thermal social bond, as we did two years ago, extending energy coverage to all vulnerable people. In addition, the combination of these measures will allow us to reduce energy consumption very significantly, increasing energy efficiency in the national economy. This is a fundamental gear in the machinery that the Government has been introducing for years and, therefore, I would like to invite you to work constructively and in solidarity in improving our energy system and encourage you not to delay beneficial changes to a model whose negative limitations and consequences we all suffer, particularly in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to speed up the processing of this bill, which provides an effective solution to reduce the receipt of our electricity bill, an issue that we all share and on which we are all concerned and which can benefit from a wide range of measures that together will make us have a much more equitable bill, much more solidarity and much more geared towards meeting the needs of Spanish citizens. This is a transition that must be fair and in which all the actors involved must bear the costs corresponding to the transformation in progress, avoiding greater efforts for the citizens, because it is necessary to show that the model of renewables, of decarbonisation, is an opportunity to reduce costs for all, to promote the modernisation of society, to promote the modernization of the productive fabric and not just a burden at this crucial moment of economic recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, the BNG is presenting this amendment to the whole of the bill establishing the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System from a Gallic and popular position, coherently left-wing and therefore consistently in favour of the fight against climate change. We present it with the fundamental objective of putting on the table two debates that we consider essential: the first, on the electricity system itself and the abusive costs of electricity prices; the second, on energy transition models and the need to address this transition with perspective and social justice. With regard to the price of electricity, it is clear that the Government is not acting as it should to put an end to the escalation we are experiencing and that today it marks a new record of 154 euros/megawatt. So far, only palliative measures have been proposed that do not go to the bottom of the problem, when they have not clearly failed, such as those adopted in July. In this sense, the draft law itself that we are dealing with will also not represent a solution beyond setting a target of a 13 % reduction in the price of electricity in five years, a goal rather than a modest one. In any case, the first thing we should ask is: 13% in relation to what, with the 35 euros a year ago or with the 154, more than the quadruple, of today? It is clear that the problem is not, as the Minister of Ecological Transition said, as you said, that we have to learn to save, let alone the solution will come by blaming Putin and waiting for him to open the gas tap. The problem lies in a regulation of the privatized electricity sector which favours large companies in the sector, which really decide and govern in this area. That is the first thing this Government should change. That is why the BNG makes it clear: the real solution is to nationalize the big electricity companies. If electricity is an essential asset, it must be under public control. People's Party and Socialist Party are responsible for the privatization of the public energy sector and for a regulation that, as I say, is made to their measure and impudently sealed by the revolving doors and the presence of former ministers and former presidents, such as González or Aznar, on the boards of directors, with indecent economic compensations. It is essential that there are public energy companies that facilitate market intervention. And I say public enterprises in plural, because we hope that Galicia can have a Galician public enterprise that manages the generation of energy, starting with assuming the hydro-electric concessions that expire. We are not talking about anything so strange, bearing in mind that in our most immediate political environment, for example in Italy or France, there are powerful public or majority-owned companies that make it easier for these States to intervene more easily in the energy market, for example in the case of France, to set maximum prices for nuclear energy. In any case, it is necessary and urgent to modify a regulation of the electricity sector, which, as I said, greatly favors the interests of the large corporations, starting with the modification of the auction criteria, which lead to the last most expensive offer being the one that ends up determining the price of electricity - it seems that here the principle of supply and demand does not work - or finally canceling a theoretical debt to the electricity sector, never sufficiently justified. But even immediately, the Government is not acting with social criteria or effective measures. When the VAT reduction was raised to 10 % on a temporary basis, the BNG warned that it would not be a sufficient measure. In any case, we advocate that the VAT on electricity, since we are talking about an essential product, should be permanently reduced to 4%, that the 5% excise duty should also be eliminated and - attention - that the electricity tax should not be suspended, that companies must pay, but that it should be prohibited by law that this tax should be transferred to consumers via the bill of light, because if that is not the case, it is simply a fallacy that is a tax for companies. It is a tax that we pay to businesses all citizens. We also advocate removing from the electricity bill all charges and tolls that are not directly related to generation and distribution, from premiums to renewables to extrapenisular costs, which must be addressed from the general state budgets, and, of course, an electrical debt that, as I said, must be directly cancelled. It is clear that, transferred to budgets, even if they must be borne by all citizens, it allows for easier modulation and greater social justice in the light of a more redistributive and socially just taxation. Finally, we defend and continue to defend a Galician electricity tariff on the basis of eliminating transport costs. It is clear that it is not fair that Galicia, as a surplus producer of electricity - 30% in 2020 since the closure of the thermals, that it had to pay and continues to pay the social and environmental costs of a specialization that we do not decide, including the flood of fertile valleys and the displacement of entire populations, has to pay the zero kilometre energy that we produce next to our houses at the same price as those who consume it 600 kilometers away and without the environmental impacts that we have to bear. By the way, this, which has been defending the BNG for decades, now defends it, for example, Mañueco, from the People's Party, or Lamban, from the Socialist Party. Secondly - I said - we must address the criteria for a fair transition. It is clear that the draft law is inadequate. The Galego Nationalist Block would support an electricity system sustainability fund financed by large energy corporations provided that - that is the key - it became clear in that law that the costs of such financing in no way can affect energy prices, since if we do not return to the same thing: we are paying it among all and not companies. In the same way that we denounce that it is not a fair transition to close the thermal system of As Pontes or Meirama without an alternative of economic activity for the hundreds of workers affected, in the same way that we are denouncing that it is not a fair transition to impose tolls on motorways when, as in the case of Galicia, there are no alternatives for public transport or rail, neighbourhood or freight transport, we also say clearly that it is not a fair transition to increase fuel prices to end consumers without the existence of public policies and effective programmes that facilitate the transition to the whole population, a transition that - I insist - we support. And, by the way, the price of electricity does not go down to accessible levels. This is elementary. Otherwise, we will be talking about a transition model only for the rich, which can become a further factor of social exclusion. Let us note, for example, in the case of mobility. We could do it in the case of heating or domestic uses of energy, but we will repair it in the case of mobility. The rich and people with economic capacity already buy electric cars. The main problem is who can buy them. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, know, Madam Vice-President, that according to the data available in 2020, the percentage of electric vehicles sold was only 2% of the total? Do you know that in that year the best-selling vehicle was a utility that starts from a price little over 9000 euros? Do you know that the most sold electric vehicle in that year is starting at more than 27,000 euros - three times more! - so that even with public aid it doubles the price of the petrol utility? These are the reality and the difficulty of transition to more sustainable mobility. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, believe that it is fair to cost fuel to the people, to the social majority, to workers without providing sufficient support and public programmes that really promote change to electric mobility? Do you think it's fair to cost the butane, gas or diesel we heat up, cook or move? Have you calculated - no matter how much you talk about aid and compensation - the real impact on the freight transport sector, which will affect all consumers, especially when rail freight transport is not developed in a large part of the state - clearly in Galicia? Do you think that progress can be made in the energy transition simply by increasing the price of fossil fuels without reducing the price of electricity and the technologies that use it, for example, in mobility? I would also like to point out that a measure such as this, in which the cost of renewable electricity premiums is transferred to other fuels, is particularly harmful to my country, to Galicia, for a fundamental reason: greater dependence on the particular vehicle in relation to factors such as the dispersion of the population and the absence of public transport alternatives, especially in the railway sector, in which we carry a historical deficit that the Government is treating adequately, at least if we take into account the budgets of 2021. There is no need to modernise existing lines, complete the internal network or provide close service to Galicia. That is why, Madam Vice-President, do your homework, modernise our rail and public transport network, take effective and courageous measures to achieve a price of electricity accessible to all citizens, stop bending in front of the electric lobby and act to put the production of energy at the service not of the profit accounts of a few companies, but of the social majority. That is why we must act, and the current policies are not worth it. The BNG advocates a different energy model, on the basis of renewables, of distributed generation, reducing the social and environmental impact of wind megaprojects and, above all, under public control, which can really serve social and economic development, favourable to the popular classes and social majorities; a model in which our country, Galicia, ceases to be a victim of energy expoliation in order to move to control the energy it produces in a horizon of energy sovereignty. A final political consideration. This is a debate that needs to be addressed from left-wing positions. If the camp is left free to the extreme right-wing populism or if a left-wing party government does the same policies as the People's Party, it will be opening the way to the right. We cannot support this project. Bring another one where you create a sustainability fund funded by big corporations and not by citizens, not by workers, and be sure that we will be the first - in reality it will be the first - to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Borrás Pabón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Do you remember when from the left there were minutes of silence for the dead that, in your opinion, caused Rajoy's energy poverty with an 8% increase in the bill for light? Well, with your government the electricity bill has already risen twenty-eight times, up to 220% more. How many minutes of silence has this government requested for the current energy poverty, Minister? How many minutes? [[Applauds]] Look at me and tell me how many minutes. Well, she's too busy looking at her cell phone. You seem like hypocrites to me, because here it seems that when misery is left-handed you no longer bother to count the dead or the poor. But I will tell you - since you do not answer me - how many minutes of silence have you devoted to this energy poverty; they are the same minutes of silence that you ask for rapes at the hands of illegal immigrants or for domestic violence when the victim is a man: zero minutes. These are the same minutes that you have devoted to condemning comments in which you incite murder against VOX, as in Mr Rufián's program, or to condemning those who, like still Minister Marlaska, linked VOX to the homophobic aggression that really had the same as any speech by Sánchez: nothing. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Rufián - since he is sitting here in his seat, that same seat he said he was leaving six years ago to go to the Catalan Republic - whether he is going to apologize at some point for issuing a programme inciting the murder of VOX members or whether it seems to you that encouraging murder is as funny as presenting here, at Congress, with a printer. Does that sound very funny to you? [[Applauds]] Well, we're still waiting for your apology. Returning to the subject before us, returning to the subject in question, he said that Pedro Pinocho accused Mr Rajoy in 2014 of having condemned the Spaniards to an intolerable receipt with an increase of 8%. Now Mr Pinocho is president and declares himself irresponsible and accuses the electricians, Europe or the first one who passes by that the electric receipt has risen more than 220 %, after chaining countless consecutive historical maximums that we practically exceed every day, today again with 154.16 euros the megawatt hour. However, the media machinery of this Government is anxious to see that the Spanish do not know the real reason for this energy disaster. Well, today we're going to tell all the Spaniards what this is all about. The electric bill, as you know, is artificially charged for charges and fees that have nothing to do with power generation; they are charges, fees and tolls that account for about 60% of the electric receipt. [[The Lady]] These charges are the result of political decisions taken in past PSOE and Popular Party governments, among which are the renewable premiums, which were given with the previous PSOE government and which is estimated to increase the Spanish's electricity receipt by 16% today. Now the government presents us with this fund, its new confiscation tool, which aims to transfer these costs from the electricity bill to other consumptions: gasoline, diesel, heating, gas, etc. That is, we will pay less for the electric receipt because we will pay more for gasoline or conventional heating. So I'm going to ask you something that the previous spokesman has already asked you: Do you know what Spain's best-selling car is this year? I'd say you're going to be surprised, but surely not, because you've already been told. Yes, indeed, the best-selling car this year is no Tesla, ladies and gentlemen, is the Dacia Sandero. When you condemn the diesel, as you said in your speech, Minister, when you condemn the diesel and subsidize the electrics, what happens is that the humblest classes in this country are subsidizing or financing the most powerful classes, which are the only ones that can today afford this type of vehicle. [[Applauds]] Do you realize how with their ignorance they provoke just the opposite of what they say they pursue? Of course, the electricity bill must be lowered immediately; of course, drastic and courageous measures must be taken, but not by putting the effort back into consumers and businesses, but in you, gentlemen of the Government, to eliminate the enormous political, useless, unproductive and superfluous expenditure; to eliminate subsidies to the chiringuites; to eliminate the waste of administrative duplication; and to reduce the expenditure of this very expensive and elephantic Government. Bearing in mind that it is estimated that the electricity pool can soon exceed 180 euros the megawatt hour, especially from November, when it is going to give a stop of the three nuclear power plants, what will be your next star measure, Minister? Subsidize blankets and duvets? Although surely we already have enough blankets and duvets with all that we have had to buy for the mass reception of illegal immigrants who arrive every day at our shores. I will be very clear about this bill. This Government is in a hurry to pass this bill because it needs an urgent holder to say that it is going to lower the electricity bill. It does not want to at all alleviate the efforts of households and industry, it wants a holder, and for that reason they bring this bill to this House today; a bill that greatly harms the most vulnerable families, especially those who live in rural or colder areas and who also have less chance of electrification. What you did not mention, Minister, is that low-income households and also a large part of middle-income households often have a more energy-dependent mix of non-electrical energies whose costs will increase irreparably. They will also increase territorial inequalities, harming the most emptied Spain, affecting especially autonomy such as Castilla y León, Navarra or La Rioja. Again its policies, rather than facilitating and unifying, impoverish and fragment Spain and the Spanish. This bill also greatly harms Spanish industry, especially in key tractor sectors such as food, textiles, paper and cardboard, automotive, and the chemical and steel industry, among others. Although this bill, as you have said, provides for a system of compensation and exemptions, it leaves almost 80% of the productive industry out. The large Spanish industries estimate that this fund will cost them over EUR 2650 million in five years, and that does not include the compensation scheme. To give us an idea of the real impact of this fund, its implementation would mean an energy cost to industry of 25% for the rest of Europe. Given that they are already bearing unorbited gas prices and CO2 emissions allowances, this would create an intractable competitive disadvantage for Spain. Furthermore, as we put it in our amendment, the compensation that arises, when it comes to transfers from the State to companies, could be considered State aid, incompatible with European regulation, and could therefore be eliminated. [[Applauds]] They are also at risk of being considered subsidies and can therefore lead to the imposition of tariffs by third countries. And now, if you want, you can continue criminalizing electrics, capitalism or light bulbs, but the only criminal thing here is having a government that docks every day with the electric bill to the Spaniards. It is also criminal to pay a minister a salary for doing absolutely nothing - for not doing, or even listening to me - to stop the energy crisis that his own ideological agenda has caused. For the time being, some electricians, faced with the futility of this government, have already announced a reduction in their prices to 60 or even 58 euros per megawatt hour. This is a reduction of more than half of what they pay in the wholesale market. It will turn out that the companies you demonise are demonstrating more sensitivity and better ideas and more effective than those of this government to lower the electricity bill to the Spaniards, because this fund, as always, will end up paying consumers, households. You know, Minister - you know very well - that companies are going to transfer these costs to the final consumer, but what a nice headline they have left, right? From the ministry they claim that the fund system includes three main objectives: one, to avoid rising electricity prices; two, to give clear signs of decarbonisation; and three, to provide certainty to the system to mobilize investments in the coming years. Well, as I have already explained, its outcome will be the opposite: it will further burden industrial competitiveness at a time when companies need to increase their competitiveness to export and maintain employment levels and will further increase legal uncertainty in the sector and enterprises. Why? Very simple, because in your bill you define a projected amount to collect, but this amount turns out to depend on a parameter that is not static, but is variable, that is demand, that can fluctuate in one direction or another. Therefore, the amount of the amount to be collected may not be reached and, moreover, it is impossible to manage and foresee and, therefore, introduces great uncertainty in the marketers, as collectors, in the system itself and in the public coffers, because it can be collected less than expected. So stop suffocating and criminalizing companies because that's not how we fix anything. Re-adjust the General Budgets of the State, not by raising taxes, but by stopping watering the political bars where you self plug in to subsidize customer networks, for millionaire transfers to companies like Plus Ultra, for illegal immigrants and miners and, ultimately, for all the collectives whose oppression are invented in order to be able to live from them. The Spanish know that if the government has any real intention of solving this problem, it has it easy, as it has been demanding VOX for months: one, to apply a less intervened light bill, to immediately reduce taxes and charges on the bill that represent 60% of the receipt; two, to ensure the correct practices of the companies operating in the electricity market, and three, to use the approximately €33 billion extra that the government will be pocketing cost of all the Spanish to directly reduce the bill. It is a proposal which, by the way, we requested as an amendment on 21 July and which the People's Party, which now defends it, decided to reject in its motion for urgent inquiry only because it presented it VOX. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This electric storm does not solve or publish a national strategy against energy poverty - whose advice is to put two toasts at the same time in the toaster - nor with this initiative, which will not only reduce Spanish spending, but will still condemn us to a worse competitiveness. A Government that prefers to throw away money to remain in power rather than help its people is a criminal Government and a miserable Government. At least now I understand, thanks to the new tariff, when Pedro Sánchez said that with Podemos in the government he would not sleep peacefully. Sure, because he'd spend the night ironing, washing and cooking. Well, not him, his assistant. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u70	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today again we have a historical maximum price of light, and the worst of all is that this has already stopped being news, because in the last year the light has increased by 200 %. And what is the solution proposed to us by the Government? Put it down a 12 and put the gas and the fuel up in return. Have you really thought of this measure? If you've thought about it, I think the Spaniards want you to stop thinking, because every time you think about something, the only thing you get is to make the problem worse. We have discussed a decree of vulnerable consumers before, and what is beginning to appear to us is that the Government is already trying to make all Spaniards vulnerable, because it is turning household chores into a luxury activity. Now people have to get up at four in the morning to iron or put the washing machine. It is that the price of light has increased by 200 %, it is that the SMEs and the self-employed are paying an invoice of 30 to 40 % more. What's this supposed to mean? Let our country lose its competitiveness. What's this supposed to mean? Let's lose our jobs. The Socialist Party spokesman used to tell us that he was going to tell us a story to see if that's how we found out. Look, if in anything the Socialist Party is expert, it's telling us stories. That's very clear to us all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You came up with a lot of measures when you were in the opposition, but you've all forgotten now that you're the government. And, of course, what's going on? The only thing they propose to us now is that they will set up a committee in Parliament to discuss this. There is no better way to waste time than to create commissions. What the Spaniards want is less proclamations and more solutions, because it is time for us to start seeing how the bill for light goes down. That's what the Spaniards want! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u72	Thank you, President. The receipt of the light does not stop rising, and what the Government is talking about is trying to unload the price of this receipt with measures that are ancillary, that do not tackle the problem at the root. Before the summer it was the fall of VAT, which had two problems: one, which also meant a fall in the State's revenue for public policies, and two, that by continuing to raise the price of light this fall of VAT was practically imperceptible in the final receipt. The next accessory measure is the one brought to us today, which is to seek to download the receipt by transferring the premium of renewables to this fund. Firstly, we also doubt that this will be effective and bring down the final receipt that reaches households or businesses, and secondly, what we also find worrying is the model of energy transition that is being promoted from a government like yours, that is, to promote private investment in renewables as if it were to replace what we would call a fossil bourgeoisie with a sort of green bourgeoisie, an electric bourgeoisie; how to change an Ibex fossil for a green Ibex, when what we need is to face up to these energy bourgeoisies, but a public property of energy at all stages: generation, distribution and marketing. Energy is a public good, it is a basic issue in order to guarantee people's day-to-day lives and no one should profit from it. In Catalonia, by the way, a measure of setting up a public energy company is already approved, and from here I urge the members of the Government, of Junts per Catalunya and of Esquerra Republicana to move this from role to reality. The energy transition is urgent, and cannot be made against the popular classes, increasing daily life, increasing butane, heating or gasoline without compensation in public transport. That is why we share the amendment tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block, because if these premiums are charged in the fossil energy companies, how will we know that they do not end up having an impact on what it commented on, on the price of butane gas, which is used domestically, on the price of heating or on the price of the gas tank? We are already in a time of the energy crisis, and the only way this crisis does not deepen the differences between social classes is by nationalizing the energy sector and directing this transition to decarbonisation from the public and democratic sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u74	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, now, in this debate, I was going to ask for an exercise of memory as an initial exercise, but it really is not necessary, because if one subject has accompanied us over the last few months constantly, repeatedly, and has worried the citizens more it is difficult to find it in another other than the price of the rise of light. We started this debate several months ago. At that time, it was suggested from the Government that the fall in VAT and the reduction in production tax - from 21 % to 12 % and from 7 % to 0 % - would be sufficient to contain the rise in prices and, therefore, so that this increase in prices will not affect citizens, mainly the most vulnerable. Have you had a positive answer? It seems not; it seems that not if we look at the reading of the accountants and see how the bills have risen. Months later we were told that in any case there was alarmism, because this was a short-term issue, an issue that was going to last a few months, because it had to do with a decision by certain countries about a gas policy and that this would end. Do you still dare to say today that this is going to be temporary, especially when there are experts who are already pointing out that until well into 2022 there will be no drop in this case? Frankly, and it is a sad consolation - I say it - I think we were right to point out the insignificance of these measures, but it is hardly good for us to be right, because we will be right, but the state has EUR 1 billion less, it has stopped collecting, and the electric oligopoly, the big electrics have much more money than they had before to continue distributing juicy dividends. Today we are just holding this debate with a record or historical peak in the price of light. I know you are going to tell me that this price rise is an equivalent or comparable increase that is taking place in other countries of Europe. It would be good, if we were not to cheat, for us to also say that wages in those countries of Europe double the wages of the Spanish State and, therefore, the ability to cope with that rise is greater in those places than in the Spanish State. As I said, today, we have that rise, citizens - at least those of Euskal Herria, for the part that touches us, because this is a Basque company - we wake up with full page ads that tell us that more than 6 million households can be quiet because their price of light remains stable. [[shows a press clipping]] This is said by Iberdrola, which is probably obvious that there are 18 million households in the Spanish state. If only 6 million will be able to be quiet, it will have to be concluded that 12 will have to live in agony. That is the reality that is being lived on the streets and that is taking the form of an angry protest, because in the summer what we have seen has been a constant escalation, and we were told that action will be taken; today we are told that tomorrow there will be a package of additional measures. Meanwhile, we've seen swamps emptied to optimize the benefits. Don't be fooled, they put in circulation the cheapest energy to then charge for the price of the mask, which is the last one that enters. It's a whole round business for big power companies. And in the face of that, that good business practice does not seem and seems a little remote from the corporate social responsibility that large companies are supposed to be, what we are told is that some research or analysis process will be initiated. The electric oligopoly will be shaking with these measurements. We planned after Mr Sánchez Galán, who was one of the responsible, as the chief executive of one of these companies, to appear in Congress to explain to us why this measure was taken, and we were told that it was not appropriate, that there was no place, and, as I say, now they are telling us that tomorrow there will be more measures. Perhaps it should also be remembered that the bet on combined cycle power plants, which today are wasting the price of the bill through an energy pool, was not an idea of all, but an idea of some political parties that decided to make this their true battle horse and that today we are paying dearly all. With sincerity and without stridency, our patience has already been exhausted. We can no longer wait for more small steps to be taken when we see that the fundamentals are not touched, that is the omnipresent and omnimod power of the electric oligopoly. You, we and people know that we have to take bottom-up measures, that we have to take structural measures, and you have a majority to do so. There is the factor of possibility for them to take these structural measures: there are a majority of leftists in this Congress who would be willing to do so. Therefore, it is not a question of feasibility, of possibility, it is a question of will. If they do not take structural measures, it is because there is no will, and we do not want to be responsible for an inaction that is condemning more and more people to energy poverty. We said this in a previous debate and we can repeat it now: when there are at least 16.7% of Spanish households with a light bill that is oversized in relation to their net income volume, what we are doing is impoverishing the whole population. That's when we're seeing companies hold general meetings and general assemblies where the only thing they have to say to citizens is that their profits continue to increase and their salaries and emoluments as well. I am not going to dwell on what I have said on many occasions, because there are specific measures and some have been pointed out. We can and should talk about public intervention already by the State. I don't care if it's in the form of nationalization, if it's in the form of creating new companies or if they're looking for another less evocative formula of revolutionary ideals, but do something from the public power and prove that they're public power. They have already told them before that there is public action in electricity; there is in Italy with Enel. Enel owns Endesa. Endesa was the public reference company of the Spanish State and today Endesa is a reference company of Enel, which in any case will revert part of its profits to the Italian State, if it does not keep them in its pockets. There is another element that can also be done, which is to start to stop acting with rotating doors. Because it is true - and I have been recriminated on more than one occasion, and it is true - that on these occasions I often look a lot to the right. And it seems that all the criticisms I make to the People's Party for what they did, which they obviously did, in the privatization of the electricity sector. But it is no less true that the Socialist Party also worked and collaborated in this privatization of the electricity sector. And maybe that's why many of the board seats share them. Because, in short, the bet of both does not differ too much. You can also talk about setting maximum prices. If we are told that Europe cannot and cannot be allowed, the same thing must be done is to activate the majority of its members in their European counterparts, because the European Socialist Party something weighs, and surely others will also weigh as if to be able to reform the laws. It is not appropriate to continue to apologize on other issues; here the question is whether they are going to stop the electric oligopoly, whether there is going to be courage; whether they are going to reverse the tendency between those who always win, which is the electric oligopoly, and those who always lose, who are the citizens. In short, if they are going to put an end to this scam, because now comes the debate on European funds, and these companies, those of oligopoly, have asked for EUR 50 billion of European funds for their action. Do those who have been so insolidary and have shown such a capacity to amass benefits need even more money from the State?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u75	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u76	Pick it up on. Thank you, Vice President. Needless to say, we have been chaining up electricity prices for months, an increase that we all know why, among other things, the increase in demand for recovery, the price of gas, the high price of CO2 emissions, driven by this increased climate ambition that we have adopted in Europe. All this in a context of recovery, following the crisis of the COVID-2019, in which the price of allowances still needs some time to stabilize. In this context, all the groups have asked for numerous explanations and, in addition, we have asked for shock measures to control the price of light immediately. For this, the truth is that there are no magic solutions or simple solutions to complex problems. Firstly, because the marginalist system used to set electricity prices cannot be changed, because its modification or possible revision is in Europe's hands; a marginalist market that involves the same price regardless of technology and generation costs. So we can try to push Europe to study some possible modification, because the costs, both variable and fixed, of the different technologies today differ many from each other, but this will not immediately lower the bill. If we cannot change the marginalist system that is in Europe's hands and neither can tolls, because it is in the hands of the CNMC, only measures that affect either taxes or charges remain; and the sustainability fund goes in this line, in line with reducing charges. If we recall, back in 2017 a committee of experts was set up to prepare a report on the analysis and proposals for the decarbonisation of the Spanish economy at the lowest possible cost, a commission made up of experts appointed by all political parties. My group also appointed an expert, and they gave us the keys to reduce that bill. On the one hand, they proposed a tax reform based on CO2 emissions - which pollutes, pays - involving all sectors. In addition, develop it also with exemptions and compensations and implement it through a process of gradual adaptation that we do not have today. My group understands that this is the main road if we really believe in this about CO2 emissions, because it is the tax system that certainly gives adequate price signals on the market. In the absence of this tax reform, this committee proposes this fund: to allocate the financing of support for renewable energy to all energy consumption, so that everyone contributed to this effort by following the principle that the polluter pays; a report that counted on the favourable vote of all experts and with three particular votes. My group therefore indirectly endorsed this measure, the totality of which we are discussing here today; a measure which we believe is going to reduce the price of electricity, as it removes from the bill the charges of renewables, cogeneration and waste - what is called the cut-off - and whose financing is distributed among all energy carriers: electricity, natural gas and oil according to their sales, correcting the imbalance that exists when it comes to distributing that effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions which, basically, fall on the electricity consumer. We understand that it introduces a gradual signal to households and businesses to move forward in the decarbonisation of their energy consumption. A measure that we understand goes in the right direction, but that also has its buts or its negative part. In the economic memory the project does not present an estimate of the sectoral and sub-sectorial impacts and by type of energy, when the impact we know will be different depending on the sector. That the cost-sharing is carried out according to the energy delivered. That the higher costs will ultimately impact on the price of fuels, because the contributions to the fund are also made by oil and natural gas suppliers. That this impact of costs - it seems to guess - will affect more households that dedicate more income to the consumption of fossil fuels - butane, gas - than to electricity. That the fund overlaps with the status of the electrotensives, since the latter subsidizes part of the charges, a maximum of 85% of the extrapenisulars and the renewables premiums, the Record; as the part or the amount of the cut with this fund will disappear within five years, at best the status of the electrotensive is virtually without any advantage. But in order to mitigate these negative effects, the rule itself also provides for a gradual application of the fund in five years, and also provides for compensation and exemptions to make the impact smaller. In Euskadi, for example, that we have done a little homework from the preliminary draft law to the draft law, the impact of industry has dropped considerably, because basically the allegations made in the preliminary draft law and the compensation subjects have been expanded. We understand that all these issues or these buts may be the subject of debate and adjustment during the parliamentary process of the bill. It is true that the measures being taken are short-term, and that is why we must try to tackle this tax reform and go much further because, as I say, the measures are short-term and what needs to be done is to develop a new market, we always say, of distributed generation and of networks of interconnection between consumers. There's the effort, too. For my group, the proposal follows objectives that are needed today: to sharpen or ease the electricity bill and to move forward with the process of sustainable ecological transition. But the disputes we have raised also lead us to conclude that the reforms in the energy sector or in the energy sector that are going to be adopted must take into account and bear in mind the effects that they may have on competitiveness, equity and territorial and social cohesion. The ecological transition has costs - I always say this - that we must assume between society and the economic and industrial sectors, and if on the way we find that there are income losses for those most vulnerable groups, and for those sectors whose decarbonisation process is much more complex, we will have to look for more and better compensations and accompany them also to make these new investments, because if we do not of course we will hardly be able to involve society in this whole process. We also have an opportunity in this regard with European funds. We will vote against the amendments as a whole and seek to adjust this measure in line with what we have already commented on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to add my group to the words with which the Vice-President began her speech, and to express our sympathy for the firefighter who died in the attempts to put an end to the fire in Sierra Bermeja, in Andalusia, on my land. We want to send all our support to the people who are still working there, and also to draw attention to the accident that this morning has had a helicopter that, thank God, has not had any victims. We want you to continue and feel our support from here, because we believe it is important that we be united and show that pride we feel for the firefighters of our land. [[Applauds]] Turning to the subject before us today, we are discussing two amendments to the entire draft law of the Sustainability Fund that the Government has brought to Congress. In my speech today I do not want to focus too much on the last historical peak that is marking the cost of electricity in our country, I will not give the figure. First of all, because there is a risk that this barbarity will end up normalising, that we will get used to the fact that every day there will be a maximum and to quantities that exceed the most elementary common sense. And I am not going to give the figure, moreover, and above all, because I believe that what is really important today is to focus on how these maxims impact directly on citizens, on Spanish families and, of course, on our businesses. Because the debate of figures gives for what it gives, but the consequences are real and dramatic, and they arrive weeks later with the bill, when they arrive at our homes. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an example, just an example - of the thousands I could give - of how the rise of this bill of light is affecting the Spaniards. Nela, owner of a trade at Jerez de la Frontera - nor what she has to say that the crisis of the COVID-19 had already made it extremely difficult for her to maintain her activity -, in case it were little, now receives the bill of light. Last year he paid 480 euros for the electricity bill that came to him in September. This year it has paid 1500 euros, just for lighting and air conditioning to be able to provide service. Three times more. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a drama, a drama that is multiplying and that we can meet in any of the cities of our country. It's the bread of many families. It is not an artefact with which to make politics of the lowest calaña, as some parties have been able to make, that the only thing they do is to put the president of the government in motion without presenting any real solution to the problems of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote no for these amendments as a whole; and we will do so, as always, out of responsibility, putting the welfare of citizens before any political calculation, because the Spaniards need solutions and they need them now, because the invoices are not going to be paid alone, let alone with ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish electricity system faces two major challenges of a different nature, but in practice they are interconnected. One, progress towards decarbonisation in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the medium and long term in terms of reducing CO2 emissions and climate neutrality. The other is to ensure that, regardless of the specific technological mix in the system, the pay system is economically sustainable. We must avoid going back to situations like the one we experienced ten years ago, with deficits in the system that led to a debt of 29 million euros. By Compare, the bailout to Bankia was $22 billion. In recent years we have been able to reduce this historical deficit, but everything points to 2020 being liquidated with a deficit of 1.5 million, and there are no prospects for the situation to improve in the near future. Generally speaking, we believe that the bill is in the right direction to address these two challenges. Let's keep working. We can make it better. In Citizens we see it with good eyes, but also, from our liberal project, the decarbonization of the economy, moving to a system less dependent on fossil fuels and economic sustainability, establishing a fairer sharing of the costs of the system, could ease the burden on households and ensure that the deficit will be phased out and that it will not happen again. But this does not mean that we believe that it is a first step and a good step, let alone that there are not some aspects that we want to improve, which we will do in the presentation of amendments when we can. Gentlemen of the Government, let's work together. Let us work, too. Let us contribute, let your policy of deaf ears and, indeed, take measures such as those we propose in Citizens, as a state pact for energy, because problems with the bill of light are already a state problem. They decided to temporarily lower the VAT on light and it was a measure we proposed in Citizens. So let's work together, but we work by putting in the center the citizen, the families, the most vulnerable, the dependents, who have to have a machine at home to be able to spend every day and to maintain their health. Also our companies, our merchants, the hoteliers. Let's put them at the center and work together, always reaching out to the government to help all Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I begin with the direct inquiry that has been made to me. You're right, Mrs. Borrás, I've been a little over eighteen months, and maybe I'll stay a while longer, because I have the time to get to the eighteen years your leader, the former deputy of the Santiago Abascal People's Party. [[Applauds.- Mrs. Borrás Pabón makes negative gestures]] This is a good fight, it's an important fight, because it's a real fight against the real boss, against the real power, against people who are in offices with a lot of power and to whom no one votes. So it's a good fight. I think the first thing we have to do is set the framework. A market that is increasingly able to create products whose demand in some year is even lower than the previous year, and whose price is increasingly higher, what would you call it? Market? Being generous, they might call it oligopoly, but really the feeling of many citizens is that it's a scam. And if it seems so, it certainly is. The solution, as proposed by the right and the right... By the way, hearing them talk about how expensive the light is, how expensive the receipt of the light is, is like listening to Hannibal Lecter talking about food: it can sound good until you know what the menu is about. Then it doesn't sound so good to you anymore. The menu is for citizens. These are the solutions proposed by the right and the right, because lowering VAT is never the solution. What do we pay for health? What do we pay for education with? What do we pay for public services with? Another solution of the right and the right is that the costs of electricity are via General State Budgets. In 2019, Iberdrola won 3610 million euros; 3610. And 160,000 headlines were turned off. Owners; now multiply by the people who live in that house. Does it have to pay through General State Budgets the people to whom electricity costs are cut off? Is that the solution? That can never be the solution. Proposal made by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, and which can be done from now on, and can be done by the Government from now on: take advantage of the negotiation of concessions of hydroelectric power stations operated by these power stations-literally, by four - to negotiate and limit their profits, via BOE. There is an already recognised legal figure in the case of renewables which is called rational benefit. It must be rational. We do not say here that companies do not have to get profits, what they cannot do is scam the citizens, and that the government, via BOE, taking advantage of the renewal of the distribution of hydroelectric power stations can do so from now on. So we propose. And please stop talking about the gas and stop blaming Putin. I will not be the one who defends Putin and I will not be the one who says that it is true that there are uncontrollable international factors that affect the bill of light, but the electrics, literally, use 1% of gas to generate energy in this country. One per cent. The remaining 99% is reservoir water, and the invoice is charged at 100% of the gas price. That's the truth. Solution: public intervention, public intervention, public intervention. And if you see that the PSOE of this doesn't talk much or you don't understand much, it's because people like Felipe González were on board. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u81	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia el Comú, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u82	Thank you, President. I want to begin, as it cannot be otherwise, by joining my voice to that tribute to the people who are on the front line right now in Sierra Bermeja fighting that fire and, in particular, to that man, named Carlos Martínez, who has died defending our heritage, defending everyone and everyone. Go from here our sincere and sincere tribute. [[Applauds]] I would also like to recall, because this is something that comes to mind from the debate this afternoon - and we will be discussing this fire for a long time now - that we are faced with a fire that is being told by all experts that this is a very serious fire, which is caused to a large extent and driven by climate change. I think it is important to take this into consideration, because we often forget in these debates what we are talking about a real problem and a problem that directly affects, in a very particular way, the Iberian peninsula and that is bringing us events as serious as the one that is being lived in Sierra Bermeja and many others. I say this because many issues are being mixed up in today's discussion, but there is a first one that I think we should agree on, at least the majority, and that is that the fight against climate change must be a priority. If we agree on that, we will also agree on that maximum which we have been talking about for a long time, but on which very little is being done, which is that the polluter pays. And this is, no more or less, what we're discussing today. I believe that with the serious difficulty that we are experiencing with the high prices of light and with the situation in which many families find themselves, this bill that is being dealt with today should be made with the utmost urgency, because, indeed, we have to distinguish between what is done and what is good, what is done too slowly and what is not done. This is one of those things that are being done, which are good because they will have a direct, real impact on the bill of light, a reduction of between 13% and 15% in the bill of light for citizens, and therefore I think it is important that this bill is dealt with with with with the utmost urgency because it will undoubtedly have a positive effect on citizens. Therefore, action must be taken. It is true that the situation we are experiencing is extreme, but we already know it, it has been known since 2005 when the White Paper on the reform of energy regulation already highlighted the problems of the current electricity market. At the moment the situation is so serious that immediate measures are needed to slow down the increase in electricity prices while at the same time working on the reform of the electricity market. That's why we in Unity can understand that we have to act on at least three fronts. The first is the one we are discussing today, which are the changes in the bill that will reduce the, say, non-energy part, the tax part. This is something with which, in theory, we all agree, but then, when a concrete proposal is put on the table, it seems that there is not so much agreement. It is precisely this amendment - the PNV spokesman, Idoia Sagastizabal, has commented - that this proposal is endorsed by many experts, including the experts from the group of Mr Nadal, from the Group of the European People's Party. Therefore, we are talking about a measure that comes from far behind and that we believe it is time to put it into effect. Secondly, our second proposal has to do with regulatory changes in relation to the functioning of the electricity market. We believe that this is fundamental because it is now dominated by an oligopoly that gains great benefits while consumers suffer the current situation. It does relate, Mr Rufián, to the current situation with the price of gas. Obviously, yes. The gas has climbed close to 300 %; it has therefore been one of the causes of the impulse of this situation, which is further compounded by this poor design of the electricity market. That is why we understand that the government can and must go further, preventing the functioning of the wholesale market from continuing to create dysfunctions and being illogical. We need to set ceilings in that market on the remuneration of certain technologies that have already amortized their investments, such as hydroelectric and nuclear, in order to reduce the bill. This is the second aspect that we believe needs to be addressed. And the third - several speakers have already said - is the recovery of hydraulic concessions for the formation of a public electricity company. But what we are talking about today is the creation of a national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, whose objective is to remove from the fixed costs that are paid in the bill of light the costs associated with the specific remuneration regime for renewables, cogeneration and waste. As I said, this expenditure, of around 15% of the invoice, will be covered by the new creation fund, which will feed on the contributions of all energy operators. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said - and it is false - that the national sustainability fund will cause damage and irreparable loss of competitiveness to Spanish industries. The representative of VOX has said this, and it is false, because today, in most European countries, the participation of the fossil fuel industry in sustaining the energy transition is much greater than in Spain. In Spain it is only 11% - this is from the report of the experts of the People's Party -; only 11% are paid by oil operators and 87 % are paid by electricity operators. Therefore, as in other European countries, such as the United Kingdom, for example, reaching 25% of that cost paid by oil operators is undoubtedly a good measure to which we need to move forward. We are therefore faced with a necessary measure today, but it is not enough, and that is why we continue to work with the rest of the proposals which we consider essential in order to permanently reduce the price of light. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u83	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In a sentence attributed to Mark Aurelius it was said that the ignorant person leans to blame another of his own ignorance. This could be the summary of the more than three years of government, Madam Vice-President, more than three years making decisions - or not - guided by a sectarian and ideological mental framework away from competitiveness, efficiency, intelligence, away from talent and effectiveness, all decisions that have consequences and that, when they come, you do not hesitate to go out and blame your own mistakes on others. CO2 is to blame, but who is behind the rise of CO2 in Europe is you, Mrs Ribera. The gas is to blame, but we have not yet been explained what was the reason for Pedro Sánchez' visit to Algeria on 7 October. It is the fault of the hydroelectric plants, but it is the Ministry of Ecological Transition that authorizes the dams. It is Europe's fault, but the European Commission responds that the current market model is the fairest and most affordable; or else, it is the fault of the People's Party. However, the reality is that the price of light today is 318 % more expensive than in 2014, 266% more expensive than in 2015, 362% more expensive than in 2016, 256% more expensive than in 2017, 230% more expensive than the first six months of 2018, which are precisely the prices of light with governments of the People's Party. Gentlemen of the Government, the reality spoils you every day your intended good headline, because today we are discussing another government headline, which is the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, where the manufactured headline is that the government intends to lower the bill by 13%. That's absolutely false! In any case, it will be in 2025, but they bring it now because they generate deficit again and start breaking the electrical system again. What is that reality? The reality is that they're trying to hide from families and businesses that reality they don't want to tell, but that reality I'm going to tell them. First. The bottom is no measure to lower the electric bill. The fund is another instrument at the service of the ideological sectarianism of the Government, which does not care to ruin the economies of families; it is an instrument that goes not in favour of lowering the price of light, but against rural Spain and agriculture, tourism, against road transport, against industry, against vulnerable families, because the price of light may fall somewhat, but all other energy consumption will rise considerably. They had the opportunity to legislate for the sustainability of the electricity system and have legislated against what they do not like. It's a fund that starts distorting reality from Article 1! Because this fund does not finance the promotion of renewable energy as it is said, this fund finances the past, its disastrous past, its mistakes in the past, it does not finance the present or the future! Second. Indeed, Mr Uralde, the countries of our environment are moving towards a decarbonisation of the economy involving all energy carriers and all energy sectors. And for the past three years the report of the Committee of Experts had already pointed that out: preferably that it should be financed from the State General Budgets, but the Vice-President decided to keep it in the drawer and do nothing. In France all non-supply-related costs are financed from the State General Budgets; in Germany a CO2-associated rate was created and now its financing is being considered with the Federal State General Budgets; the Netherlands or Finland with a CO2-associated rate. But this fund that is being debated in its entirety today has nothing to do with what they are doing in our environment, and its consequences with its current approach will be disastrous. Third. The national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system goes especially against rural Spain and against the 8000 municipalities in which its main activity is agriculture. Diesel is the field vehicle, it's an agricultural vehicle, and don't tell me it's exempt from agriculture because it's a lie! In agricultural provinces such as Toledo, 68% of vehicles are diesel and only 0.86% are exempt; in Lugo, 68.8% diesel and 1.18% diesel would be exempt; in Cuenca, 67.58 % diesel and only 2.3% exempt; in Jaén, 67 % diesel and 0.73% exempt; or in Badajoz, where 66.14% diesel and only 0.85% of the vehicle are exempt. I went to the top of the table, but the reality is that on average in Spain only 0.69% of agricultural vehicles are exempt. Do you know how much fuel went up in what's going on in the year? More than 16% on a historic price hike, and you want to add 7.5 cents more! Because all you have to offer, Madam Vice President for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, is depopulation and looting of rural Spain. That will be his legacy when I hope the sooner he ceases to be a minister. Fourth. This fund is not suitable in its current wording in the times we live in, with a million households that have all their members unemployed!, with unemployment rates of up to 40% in young people!, with a national wealth destruction of 11% of GDP! This fund is going to affect consumers above all, not large energy companies, as you say! Of course, this is not the time to generate more impacts on industry, the economy or families. This fund has been described as another nail in the coffin, according to the industry; a hard blow for agriculture, according to the agrarian associations or that the fund is going to boost the demographic challenge. The NCMC says that the optimal solution in the medium term is to finance renewables, cogeneration and waste that would have to be directed towards a comprehensive reform of energy and environmental taxation. The Council of State questions why environmental and energy taxation has not been reviewed and why the social and territorial impacts of the fund have not been assessed. The Committee of Experts on Energy Transition says that it is preferably financed from State General Budgets. And finally, the European Commission is reviewing the Energy Taxation Directive. Madam Vice-President, why do we not wait for this revision of the European Commission, which will certainly be done at a more favourable economic moment than we have now? Look, I'm from Jaén, and there this fund scares us, afraid because all impacts will fall on rural Spain. Why legislate against agriculture, against industry, against tourism, against SMEs and self-employed, against vulnerable consumers, against rural Spain? Let's give the people of the villages a break, let's give rural Spain a break, let's give that agricultural Spain a break. They've been in the government for over a thousand hundred days. Is this really the best they have to offer us? Be sensible, park the bottom and for once let's go hand in hand with Europe. Let's legislate for what Spain needs and not for what you don't like. I would like to conclude, as it cannot be otherwise, by sending our support, our support and a sincere embrace to the Infoca Plan and to all the troops and forest firemen, who are playing their lives and giving their lives to control that devastating fire in Malaga. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u85	Thank you, Mr. Requena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u86	Thank you, President. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I too would like to join in the words of those who have preceded me in the memory of the forest firefighter who has lost his life fighting the fire in Sierra Bermeja. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you have all said at the beginning of your speeches, today the price of electricity is once again highest in Spain. Moreover, at this very moment the wholesale price in Spain is at 169 euros the megawatt hour, exactly the same as in Portugal or France; in Italy, 174; in Germany, Belgium or the Netherlands above 200; in the United Kingdom at this moment it exceeds 700 euros the megawatt hour. Clearly, there is a problem. These wholesale prices affect in a very important way the bill that consumers pay in our homes, but these wholesale prices are not the only thing that is on the bill of our homes and that we see that they have been shot throughout Europe. There are other components, such as the costs of the system or taxes, and two months ago the government significantly lowered taxes that directly or indirectly affect our receipt of light; it reduced VAT from 21 % to 10 % and suspended the tax on electricity production. This law creates the national sustainability fund. The Vice-President of the Government has perfectly explained this in her opening speech, with this fund eliminating a part of these posts which she mentioned, which corresponds to the cogeneration premiums, renewables and waste, which is known as Recorre. With the activation of this fund, the bill for all electric consumers can be considerably reduced, and therefore it needs to be put in place as soon as possible. However, here we are, debating not one, but two amendments in their entirety. One of them, Mr. Ruego, I find it difficult to understand the truth. You said during your speech that this was an amendment - you said - Galician, popular, left-wing, climate-conscious and coherent. I am very afraid that this amendment that you have tabled is none of these things. He wants you to be at mass and squealing, and that's very difficult. You say that you bring the government a bill that pays corporations, you said, and not citizens, but in your amendment you say that you pay with budgets, that is, with the taxes of those citizens. You say that with this fund it penalizes the popular classes, but neither is it true, since it has an important redistributive effect because of the greater weight that the electric bill has on the lower incomes and that they will be more benefited. And it mixes everything, yes, with what you call the Galician tariff, making you think it defends the Galicians in this way; but you will have to explain to the Galicians and the rest of the Spaniards why you intend to continue paying more when you try to stop this bill. VOX is something else. For its part, this amendment was much more predictable in its entirety. We have already started to get used to it, as they have discovered the amendment as a whole and have taken its liking. I totally get it. This allows you to have a few minutes of glory without having to work too hard. For example, let us remember that they tabled an amendment to the general budgets of the State as a whole, but then they do not bother to submit a single amendment to the joint text. Of course, that's how they saved themselves having to read them. You, here, do not come to do politics, come to make propaganda and, as we have heard, to make bad jokes or to put decent words in a schoolyard. [[Applauds]] You believe that this rarity and reactionary attitude that you have serves something, but you are wrong, because you are victims of your own contradictions and cruelty. You're cruel to the people of this country. It is you who did not support the rise of the minimum wage or pensions - by the way, Mr Rego, neither do you; you already have something else in common -. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you did not support the creation of minimum living income, indeed, you insult those who need it by calling this income the paguita. They have no shame, they don't know her and, besides being cruel, they are incoherent. They say that the VAT must be lowered from the light; the government has a royal decree that lowers the VAT from the light, and VOX does not support this royal decree. They say that renewables premiums must be removed from the receipt; the Government presents the national sustainability fund, VOX amendment to the whole. You are cruel, I said, because what you really seek is discomfort in people, because you think it suits you and because where you swim best you are in the mud. They don't know shame and they don't know respect. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, know only anger and there is no more than listening to all the interventions that you have had here today and those that you always have to realize the hatred that you distil, and that without that hatred you are empty. When you don't spit bile through your mouth, you have nothing to say. Look to your right, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in the figurative sense, but also in the literal sense. There's VOX. Is that what you want to be? Because, really, when I listen to you, Mr. Requena, I find it very difficult to distinguish them, I really tell you. The few differences between you are blurry with each vote. You can say what you want, because in the end it's not what you say, it's what you do; and you do what they do. Remember that two months ago they did not support the reduction of VAT on the receipt of light. If it were for you, today the Spaniards would be paying 12% more in the receipt of the light each month or would be exposed to supply cuts, because they also did not support the actual decree of the social shield in May. We will see what they are doing with these two issues today. You believe that with your actions you are opposed to the Government, but you do not, gentlemen, are opposed to each and every Spanish. [[Applauds]] They will have to prove whether they care more about the welfare of the citizenry or stay well with their preferred partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes to our homes every month - the Vice-President has explained - consists basically of three blocks with broad features: regulated costs, energy costs and taxes. The Government created a group of experts to study the tax reform that will offer us its conclusions in a few months. Until then, urgent measures have been taken such as the reduction of VAT or the suspension of tax. The cost of energy depends on the wholesale market, and it works on the basis of European rules, but it can be done as the auctions of renewables that allow us to set the lowest and most predictable price in the long term. As far as regulated costs are concerned, the cut-off will come out of the invoice through this Sustainability Fund. With these actions is how the electric bill is lowered. We all want to lower the price of light - with this ending -. Everyone here is constantly talking about this, but these next few weeks we will really see the position of each of the groups in this House vis-à-vis this law and the other initiatives that we have under way. We'll see what each one's priorities are, and we'll see if they just talk or if, like us, they act. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u88	With regard to the last two items on the agenda, concerning the consideration of the proposal by the Socialist, People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and Confederal of the United Nations Pos-En Communal Pos-Galicia in Common, amending the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1, and the agreement to direct and read out the above-mentioned initiative, I would like to inform you that they will be put to the vote without any previous debate. We'll vote in five minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 16/2021 of 3 August, adopting social protection measures to address situations of social and economic vulnerability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 117 plus 232 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 116 plus 172 telematics votes, 288; against, 1 plus 8 telematics votes, 9; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u90	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 231 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 117 plus 227 telematics votes, 344; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u91	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. DEBATE ON THE APPRECIATION BY THE CAMERA OF THE PREVISION CONTAINED IN ARTICLES 135.4 OF THE CONSTITUTION AND 11.3 OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/2012 OF 27 APRIL, BUDGETARY STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, COMMUNICATION FROM THE AGREEMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF 27 JULY 2021, requesting the assessment of Spain's suffering from a PANDEMIA, which is subject to an emergency situation, to the effects provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. [[File number 430/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u92	Discussion on the assessment by the Chamber of the forecast contained in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Voting on the Government's request to appreciate that Spain is suffering a pandemic, which is an extraordinary emergency for the purposes provided for in articles 135.4 of the Constitution and 11.3 of the Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 232 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 74 plus 124 telematics votes, 198; against, 54 telematics votes; abstentions, 43 plus 54 telematics votes, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u93	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u94	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law establishing the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, presented by the parliamentary groups VOX and Plural. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 232 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 55 telematics votes; against, 74 plus 129 telematics votes, 203; abstentions, 43 plus 48 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u95	The amendments are rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u96	The plenary of the House has requested the final deliberation and vote of this bill. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 231 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 44 plus 124 telematics votes, 168; against, 73 plus 103 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u97	The bill is not before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u98	It takes into consideration the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Proposal by the Socialist, People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and Confederal of the United Nations Podemos-In Commune Podemos-Galicia in Commune, to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 232 by telephone, 349; in favour, 117 plus 232 by telephone, 349.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u99	Consideration shall be given to the proposal to amend the Regulation unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u100	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Agreement for the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 232 by telephone, 349; in favour, 117 plus 232 by telephone, 349.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u101	It was unanimously agreed that the plenary should proceed directly and in one reading with the above-mentioned proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-13-CD210913.u102	I would remind you that, having adopted the agreement on direct and single reading, it is envisaged that the debate and vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Rule 46.1, will take place tomorrow after the debate on the consideration of proposals for the law of autonomous communities and cities. He also announced that, as agreed by the Bureau, the deadline for tabling amendments to this initiative is 10.30 a.m. tomorrow, Tuesday. The meeting was suspended, thank you very much. It was eight o'clock at night.
