ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, today seventeen years have passed since the terrorist attack that took place at the Atocha, El Pozo and Santa Eugenia stations in Madrid, which claimed the lives of 192 people and remains in our memory. In its memory, the Parliament and the European Council decided to make every 11 March the European Day of Victims of Terrorism. For this reason, I ask you to unite again in the memory of the victims and in pain with all their relatives and relatives, keeping a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u2	We begin with the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, the proposal for an organic law repealing Article 315(3) of the Criminal Code. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u3	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the opinion of the Committee on Justice which approved in its terms the repeal of Article 315.3 of the Criminal Code and which resulted in the rejection of all the amendments, including those of our parliamentary group. As I have already pointed out from this rostrum and in the Committee on Justice, it may not be such a simple matter to remove Article 315(3) in order to reduce the penalty of those who are in a situation of coercion in order to force other workers to follow a strike they do not wish, and it may even be possible to produce a boomeran effect through the application of the generic crime of coercion under Article 172.1 of the Criminal Code. Such a situation would be due, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the penalty associated with the generic type of coercion when what is prevented is the exercise of a fundamental right such as the right to strike, both in its positive dimension of doing so and in its negative dimension of not doing so, constitutes an aggravated penalty of up to four and a half years in prison, compared to the three years of the current article of 315.3 which is now intended to be repealed and also against the maximum of two years proposed in our amendment, the lightest of them all. In addition, article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, although there are several victims of coercion caused by the same perpetrator, only one offence is considered to be a crime in relation to the generic crime of coercion of 712, in which as many offences as are concerned would be assessed, without prejudice to subsequent competitions. Therefore, we do not consider the simple and simple repeal of article 315.3 to be correct in order to reduce the penalty of this conduct through the application of the generic type of coercion. This change involves eliminating the predominantly collective component of the so-called criminal labour law and the specific criminal treatment of behaviours and behaviours born within the framework of a socio-occupational relationship, because, as in the case of the coercion of information pickets, the purpose that encourages them and the context in which they are carried out in order to assess the intensity of the limitation that these conducts introduce in the law of their recipients must be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying does not mean that we have to leave things as they are, much less, far to the contrary. The interpretation of article 315.3 is carried out by the Office of the Prosecutor and sometimes also by the courts, as I have already pointed out on another occasion by quoting the ex-fiscal Mr. Torres-Dulce, a disparagement of conduct and the disproportion of the protected legal good. I explain that, ladies and gentlemen, although they are well known. The strike itself has an element of coercion, it is an instrument that constitutionally is granted to the weakest part within a labour relationship and it is an instrument that allows the psychological coercion necessary to force the counterpart to adopt an agreement favourable to the interests that are promoted; the strike frees unequal positions using the instrumental element of pressure, contributing to the particular interest of those who carry it out and also of those who do not carry it out by the same binding force of the conventions, and the strike also contributes to the realization of the fundamental value of the democratic and social rule of law such as equality, assuming that unwarranted actions in other areas may lead to a higher level of pressure in the development of a strike than tolerated in other areas. For this reason, it is in the criminal law of work, rather than in the generic criminal types, where a more proportionate and more acquittal dimension can be given to the coercions of the pickets of extension when it comes to the realization of the principle of minimum intervention, which advises a more benevolent treatment of the behaviors born in the field of collective conflict and which is ill-suited to a differentiated treatment of the coercions during or outside the strike. Therefore, we propose in our amendment the maintenance of the compulsions of information pickets in the field of specific criminal treatment, tempering the penalty to the context of the coercive nature inherent in the same strike, which has to modulate the devaluation of the behaviour learned and the appropriate measure of the protection that deserves the legal good that represents the affected right of the coerced, without forgetting also the effects that an increased penalty can have to deter and discourage the exercise of the fundamental right to strike. Therefore, we propose by amendment an amendment to article 315 of the Criminal Code, reducing its extensive punitiveism and, in the case of the coercion of information pickets or of expansion of the strike, lowering itself to a maximum prison sentence of two years, which would in any case avoid going to prison if it is not repeated, compared to the current three and a half years and to the four and a half years of generic coercion that could result if the proposal in its present terms were approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. We reaffirm once again our commitment to the repeal of an article of the Pre-Democratic Matrix Criminal Code which limits the legitimate right to strike, and therefore progresses as the BNG will reject all amendments that seek to maintain it in one way or another. There is no democratic sense that, at the time of 2021, a rule still persists, the current article 315.3, which comes from 496 of the 1973 Penal Code, introduced in 1976 with the declared intention of dealing with the growing aggressive activity of organized groups that call themselves pickets of extension of strike. It was approved in a context of growing awareness, organization and national and democratic workers struggle of that final period of dictatorship and late-offering or Transition, as some like to call it, to try to intimidate the workers and the trade union organizations, still underground, so that they did not organize strikes. We are talking about a right, be on strike, fundamental to improve the working, social and living conditions of the working class, a right that cost a lot of effort and sacrifice to conquer. Yesterday, March 10, was commemorated in Galicia - by the way, with a general strike in the Ferrol region in defense of just demands that the government must listen to - the Day of the Welsh Workers' Class. On this day of workers' and people's struggle we remember the murder forty-nine years ago, on March 10, 1972, by shots fired by the Armed Police, by two workers, Amador Rey and Daniel Niebla, during a mobilization of the workers of the shipyards. No, the conquest of the right to strike has not been easy, so we cannot accept that the work of mobilizing information developed by the pickets of strike continues to be penalized. In any other democratic State, it would be least surprising that, despite the adoption of the Constitution and the Organic Act on Freedom of Association, the right to strike continues to be realized by a pre-constitutional rule, Royal Decree-Law 17/1977. And no less than the Penal Code of 1995, twenty years after the dictator's death, the organization of pickets remained a criminal offence. The BNG has always defended the need to repeal this article, a vestige of legislation that did not recognize the free exercise of fundamental rights such as the exercise of strike rights. That is why it was one of the measures we introduced in the investiture agreement, and we are therefore glad that we are also taking the final steps towards its elimination once and for all. In any case, I would like to recall that this investment agreement also contains other measures that go in the same direction of recovery of rights stolen from workers with the excuse of the crisis, including the repeal of labour reform, collective bargaining and pensions or the law on gallows. Despite the fact that we have already had fifteen months of parliamentary office and the repeated promises made by the Government, the fact is that there was no action in this regard beyond the repeal of article 52 of the Workers' Statute and this of 153.3 of the Criminal Code, which is still incomplete. We want labour reforms to be repealed already because, far from their theoretical objectives, they caused the destruction of employment - especially in the industrial sector - and new forms of exploitation and precariousness of workers, with the known consequences of labour instability, low wages and, ultimately, labour poverty. But labour reforms were also exploited for a more centralization process, as the stateization of labour relations was strengthened and a collective negotiation was clearly weakened. And we have to remember - we have denounced it on several occasions - that preventing or hindering collective bargaining in our country, in Galicia, also means weakening the bargaining and pressure capacity of the Galician working class and therefore negatively affects the results and working conditions of our employees. That is why we consider it necessary and urgent to repeal the labor reforms, all of them in their entirety, because keeping them in a context of industrial crisis such as that experienced by Galicia - the strike of Ferrol Y of the region of Trasancos yesterday is the evidence -, aggravated unfortunately this crisis by the fact of the health emergency, implies that we continue to live with precarious work, with instability, with ERTE and also with ERE and with dismissals unilaterally. That is why the repeal in its day of article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute and this of 153.3 of the Criminal Code, being necessary and positive, seems to us insufficient, since the overall solution to the serious deterioration of the working conditions, wage and therefore of the life of the working class of our country is lacking. We have to move forward. That is why we once again call on the Government to repeal labour reforms and to do so immediately. We really hope that this measure that we are taking today will not remain in an image operation that takes time, slows down or ends up leaving behind what really needs to be done, which we believe this Government needs to do. In any case, in relation to the article we are dealing with and as we have explained earlier, we believe that a provision which is not compatible with a framework of rights and freedoms and which has been repeatedly used in the repression of workers exercising the legitimate right to strike cannot be maintained. That is why we are glad that it is finally repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] To defend the amendments made to this legislative initiative by the VOX Group, Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u7	Madam President, thank you very much. We maintain our amendments because we believe that Spain needs work, law and order and the repeal that is intended goes in the opposite direction, because neither guarantees the work, can contravene the law and pretends to arm the disorder with insolence. Go ahead as a matter of fact I did not shake the shameful statement of reasons, before this derogatory law that already but we are forced out of decorum towards this very House to censor the legislative transgression that we are dealing with. We find it absolutely inappropriate that the explanatory statement of an organic law, the highest expression of the law as a legal source, incorporate contempt assessments into another political formation that approved the norm - in this case the People's Party - appropriate to the political debate and bounded by the political debate. Your ladies and gentlemen know that by the end of our legislative activity this rule will be inserted in the Spanish legal order as organic, in accordance with article 81 of the Spanish Constitution, dealing with the regulation of a fundamental right and, therefore, is not a place to settle accounts, to shape political cutas or to publicize accounts, as appears in the shameful exposition of improper motives for a healthy democracy. [[Applauds]] Spain needs work, law and order. The present proposal that we are discussing today in its final stage can have undesirable consequences by biasing the freedom of workers to choose freely the exercise of the right to strike or the right to work. The provision in question, as you are well aware, is incardinated in Title XV of the offences against the rights of workers, articles 311-318 of the Criminal Code. And all of them censor and penalize the undesirable attitudes of some imported entrepreneurs or employers capable of perpetrating excessive actions such as not giving social security discharge to any employee. Your honors even know that among us is one of those unscrupulous characters. [[Applauds]] Let us remember that Article 315 provides for a necessary balance in which criminal charges are brought against the employer who, by deception or abuse of a situation of necessity, prevents or limits the right to strike, and the penalties are aggravated if this is done by force, rape and intimidation. The excessive actions of those who oppress the most needy and helpless for their own benefit seek their enrichment in the hardship of others not only has our moral reproach, but also today the legal admonition. Legal warning that is intended to disappear for those who, by abusing the defencelessness of those who want to work, will be denied the right to work, however laudable they were the last causes of the claim that slips through the protest. We insist once again: VOX in no way supports, shares or approves any kind of business abuse; even more, we consider that among the moral duties of the good businessman - who is the vast majority in Spain - it must prevail and highlight the provision to each one of what is just and in justice corresponds. [[Applauds]] Spain needs work, law and order. The rule which is intended to be repealed in no case should be confused - as it is tortically jealous - with an abusive limitation on the exercise of the right to strike to freedom of association, but with the protection of the right to work of workers, article 35 of the Constitution; with freedom, article 17 of the Constitution, and the dignity of the person, article 10.1 of the Constitution; ultimately, with complete freedom. It is intended to justify under violation of the right to strike the free bar so that some released people coerce the rest of the workers who want to exercise their right to work, and that cannot be tolerated. The abuse, the coercion, the violent methods, the rancio matonism union in the development of a strike, belonging to the class unions drunk of fratricidal struggles, is contrary to the demands of the common good of society that corresponds to the well understood nature of the work itself linked to the dignity of the person. Spain has more than 4 million unemployed, 900 000 people in ERTE and so many others inactive and is on the verge of the outbreak and social conflict, and this proposal for a law aims to leave the violence in which the left moves and moves comfortably, placidly, with consent. [[Applauds]] What is the protected legal good that disappears? The right of workers to choose freely to work, and is that the left, as always - the left, as always - in the name of workers, attacks workers; in the name of freedom, attacks freedom head-on; in the name of equality, forges inequality; in the name of justice, generates injustice. [[Applauds]] Therefore, let me remind you calmly of something that your ladies and gentlemen already intuit without error, a new warning to navigators: in no time VOX will govern, and in VOX we are prepared to govern, and at that time we will repeal everything that violates the will of Spanish workers and social peace to recover nothing more or less than freedom. And it's that Spain needs work, law and order. In short, Spain needs VOX and only remains VOX. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u8	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to defend the amendment to the article tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group to the opinion of this proposal for an organic law to reform the Criminal Code, an amendment which, as you know, is to prevent the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, as well as to prevent procedurally favourable treatment of those accused or convicted of this offence. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group defends the right to strike as set out in Article 28.2 of the 1978 Constitution - of course we do - and that is why we are in favour of the existence of Article 315 of the Criminal Code, because it protects workers in the two areas in which this fundamental right can be developed. On the one hand, the right of every worker to freely exercise his right to strike without interference by the employer or any other person, as set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of that article. On the other hand, because it also protects the right of any worker not to follow a strike, that is, the right to work, not to be coerced by a mob of violent people in the form of a coerced picket, and that is where Article 315.3 of the Criminal Code operates, which you seek to eliminate. Believe me, I am not surprised by the arguments of the Socialist Party spokespersons, who come to say that this special type of article 315.3 does not take place because these conducts are already covered by the Criminal Code through the generic type for the coercions set out in article 172. And I'm surprised for two reasons, first, because if your argument is true, it would also repeal 315.2, which criminalizes coercion when it is intended to prevent the exercise of the right to strike, and I explain myself. For you there is no special type in the field of workers' rights when it comes to defending the right to work and freedom, one of the essential values of our legal order, but, on the contrary, you do consider it necessary to have a special type when it comes to punishing an attack on the right to strike. And secondly - and it has already been warned throughout the parliamentary process, among others, by my colleague Manuel Jerez - that you may be making bread with pies, since, although your declared intention is to lower the criminal charge of violent pickets, the application of Article 172 to these same acts could lead to the existence of as many crimes as coerced persons, which could result in a greater penalty for their perpetrators in application of the rules of the competition for crimes. If, as much of the doctrine is understood, the right not to strike as a negative aspect of this fundamental right is violated, the penalty would be substantially increased. The other argument is that the role of trade unions must be defended because they are a basic pillar for peaceful and democratic coexistence, and so I have two doubts. The first is whether for the Socialist Group the role of trade unions is to coerce workers who want to work and not to back up a strike; for the People's Party, of course not. The second is whether, for the Socialist Party, peaceful and democratic coexistence is defended by coercing workers who have freely decided not to follow a strike. What do you intend, to import here the system of the Argentine montoneros, the violent Peronist trade unionists? That may be Mr Echenique's model, but we already know what Mr Echenique cares about workers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of a strike depends on participation and for it to be massive it is necessary to provide publicity and information to the workers, and this is acknowledged by the case law, which considers this work as an inseparable part of the right to strike, in the words of the Constitutional Court, but also, in the same way, protects this same case law the right not to participate in a strike. This has been understood over the last twenty-six years, also by the Socialist Party and even by the United Left, member of Podemos, since both were the drivers in 1995 of the reform of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, which, by the way, established much harsher penalties than the current ones, the more moderate ones, and which are the result of the reform of the Criminal Code promoted by the People's Party in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike, even in its broadest version, is not an unlimited right, as the rest of fundamental rights are not. Its exercise must be considered when it conflicts with other rights, such as the right to work or freedom, in the case before us, and this is precisely what article 315.3 of the Criminal Code does. Perhaps for this reason, because they are aware of their trophies, we have been robbed by the legislators of the reports of the Council of State, the Office of the Prosecutor or the opinion of experts in this field, as common sense dictates in a matter subject to organic regulation. Today, ladies and gentlemen, those who claim to defend the worker have become defenders of those who attack the workers. Today, those who claim to be progressive stand up as defenders of gross thugs who have nothing to do with the generality of the union world, on the contrary, denigrate it. Today the Socialist Party aims, with the collaboration of the most radical members of the House, to protect the violence, the violence they believe benefits their interests. Ladies and gentlemen, we are plunged into a terrible crisis with 6 million Spaniards unable to work, 2 million Spaniards in the queues of hunger, a youth unemployment that reaches 40% and with the biggest fall of national wealth since the Civil War, and you, who say so much about listening to the street, are afraid of the reaction of the Spaniards to their manifest incompetence, to the disaster of their policies and to prevent that social explosion they need to buy social peace. They have done so first with money, either through the management of training funds in 2019 or already in 2021, increasing the subsidy to trade unions by 56%. With the PSOE it turns out that to rescue the self-employed, to lower the VAT of the masks or to pay the minimum income vital there is no money, but to pay for not disturbing Pedro Sánchez's dream, for that, ladies and gentlemen, whatever it takes. [[Applauds]] And finally, they intend to buy the will of the most violent, legally defending their actions, to the detriment of the social majority of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks we have seen how the Spanish Government has protected the violence with the complicit silence of Pedro Sánchez, while many Spanish cities were burning, looted business and attacked the police. And, today, if this proposal is finally approved, you will take a step further in that radical drift by approving a sort of covert amnesty for your violent friends; a new and dangerous constitutional mutation, which on this occasion consists in granting procedural benefits to violent pickets convicted or investigated by the courts. This is called ad hominem legislation, and this is very dangerous in democracy. Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you will do so with the independenceists convicted of the crime of sedition.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u10	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u11	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that with Sánchez and Churches in government, principles and values enshrined in our Constitution that are not questioned in any other country in our environment are in jeopardy. Freedom of education, the right to work, private property, our common language, the independence of judges and the legislative work of Parliament are at risk. It is in danger, in short, of the freedom, the freedom of all. Today, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u12	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish. We are going to make a strict application of the times today, because there are so many points.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u13	Thank you for your generosity, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u14	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For one mistake, I have not given the floor to another Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group, whom I give the opportunity, for two minutes, to speak. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. We generally agree with this amendment, but since PeCAT we have had a simple amendment, although we believe that it is very content, with relevant content. It was to appeal to the Government to submit, before the end of the 2021 fiscal year, a draft strike bill, a new additional provision, a request to the Government to regulate this matter, which is still pending development under constitutional rules. A real decree-law of 1977, a pre-constitutional rule, a judgement of the Constitutional Court of 1981 and, in the end, a fundamental right pending to be developed by law and which today is regulated by a pre-constitutional law. To regulate the strike law correctly, in a constitutional way, is a challenge that has every democracy and that affects entrepreneurs, workers, legal security and the productive economy. It is therefore incomprehensible that, as of today, this is still regulated in pre-constitutional terms. The Constitutional Court has stated this, calling for a configuration that is not based on rulings of the Constitutional Court, but on a legal basis. The last failed attempt to regulate this matter was in 1993 and, in the end, one came to the following conclusion: what happens, that when there is no political courage the issues are left to the mercy of the Constitutional Court? It could be argued that this cannot be, that this has never happened. Well, yes, it's happened more than once. In the end, pending issues such as the Labour Reform Act, which the Government does not agree on whether or not they want to do so, call for political courage, they ask not to leave pre-constitutional or constitutional issues in the hands of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u17	Thank you, President. We are going to support the repeal of this article, which was a counter-reform of the PP in relation to the right to strike and, as mentioned above, had a precedent in the legislation of the time of most workers' conflict. The year 1976 is the record year of strikes and at that time the post-Franchism decided to try to put an end to it with an article that penalizes the activity of the pickets of strike. But, as we have already pointed out on all previous occasions when the repeal of this article was brought to the House, we must repeal other threats that are looming over the right to strike, in particular the law on the gags, which presupposes the veracity of the version of the police forces in a conflict, and also the crime of sedition, which was applied in the case of Catalan political prisoners and that some social movements - in particular, I recall the statement made by the Platform of the affected by the Mortgage-alerted that this sentence was a danger, from then on, for any social mobilization. And I'm not talking about abstract futurables. I will tell you, as I did on another occasion, of some facts concerning the general strike that took place in Catalonia on November 8, 2017. Our partner of the CUP and Pirates of Catalonia, Francisco Garrobo, has been sentenced for disorders to three and a half years, and his partner Moisès Fernández to one year. In the case of this sentence, the testimonies of up to ten police officers indicate that there was no aggression that is part of the version of the complainants and even indicate these police testimonies the dialogue attitude of the picket in the court of circulation on the basis of the complaint. But, as these police testimonies do not fit the version of the accusation, the presumption of veracity given to them in precisely other administrative processes, with the Law gag is not taken into account. However, this ruling is interesting for a couple more questions. The first is that it draws for the first time from the new concept of violence established by Judge Marchena in the judgement of the trial, what was called in that sentence psychic violence or compulsive violence. This concept is used to condemn people who make a picket strike. And the second is that, although it was a legal strike that was convened by the Inter-union-CSC union and was approved, the judge decided to consider that the picket was not such a thing, that there was a strike but that these people were not part of the strike, but were part of another demonstration and that, as he needed an express authorization of the right of demonstration, he incurred a crime. With these arguments, also arbitrary, there is a sentence - I repeat - of three and a half years for one person and one year for another. In short, although article 315.3 is repealed - which is very good news that this is happening today - the pickets of strike are not safe from other arbitrariness committed by judges through - I insist - the jurisprudence that Judge Marchena left with the sentence of Catalan political prisoners, the crime of sedition or the Law gag. A couple of questions to finish. First, a hug to all trade unionists and all mobilized persons who have been involved in legal proceedings following their participation in strikes. [[Applauds]] Despite this counter-reform that was given and despite all the threats, they will continue to go out on the street, because, as the mythical Marcelino Camacho said, the right to strike is conquered by exercising the strike. It is a reference - I add - that we take for the referendum on 1 October. The right to self-determination is earned by exercising self-determination. With that philosophy we did it on October 1st and today we started to do it. Secondly - and now so to conclude - a comment on the judges, businessmen and right-wing politicians that seems to only remember the right to work when strikes take place. The right to work must be defended every day, in the queues of unemployment and in front of the powers and classes that govern the economy. Some only remember the right to work when it comes to pursuing trade unionists and should not confuse the right to work with the right to do the non-existent squirrel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u18	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u19	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against all these amendments on a very basic issue, and we believe that the time has come to regain the right to strike for workers without further repression by the employer or at the service of the employer. Today, we probably see the last desperate attempt by employers, through their political terminals, to maintain coercive elements against the legitimate and free exercise of the right to strike. But I will say, as Bertolt Brecht said when he said what time these times when we have to fight for the obvious, something very obvious, and it is that no one strikes or anyone goes on strike out of whim, but it is done out of necessity, to defend himself from a really violent decision, that of disposing of a future to him and his family, of a job. That is the sad reality that we live in, the panorama of this present time that it is up to us to live. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to 2021. After hearing some interveners speak of orders and of law and amnesty for our violent friends, it came to my mind on March 3, 1976, when five workers were killed in the church of Zaramaga in Gasteiz by the State Security Forces and Bodies of that regime. Of course, there was amnesty for those violent gentlemen. That's the sad reality some people seem to want to take us to. I will refer to some of the amendments that have been tabled. One of them talks about the need to limit the right to strike to strictly working conditions. This is not so nor can it be so. There are judgments, such as that of 2012 of the Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which determine that strikes can serve to promote work or socio-economic objectives. Think about what would have happened to this state if the strikes had been strictly labor-related. What would have happened to the Burgos process and the general strikes convened at Euskal Herria to stop what was going to be an execution of people? What would have happened to the general strikes that brought democracy faster than some politicians who went from night to morning from being franchisors to lustrous democrats? What would happen to the feminist strike that was called two years ago for parameters different from those strictly working? That amendment is a waste of time and it only makes sense to vote against it. But I will also refer to the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party. He has greatly surprised us, and I tell him with all due respect, but not gratefully. He found out what some of us were afraid of. You use an argument, not to delete from article 315 everything that has to do with prison sentences and fines for pickets, even information, as you have said here today from the rostrum. We find it a dangerous qualitative leap to maintain those penalties, and if not, the alternative would be for them to suffer more penalties. What they do not say, but their amendment does, and it is good to point out here, is that their amendment goes beyond that. It does not speak only of the coercive attitudes - it would give for an extensive debate which means co-active in the relationship between entrepreneur and worker, when the one who has the skillet by the handle is always the entrepreneur - but it goes beyond when the phrase 'or they led other people to start or continue a strike' is introduced. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, in this we believe that there is a frontal collision with the Workers' Statute, which says that the main measure of self-protection that workers have is the strike, that they exercise when there is a collective conflict in the relationship between employers and workers, and that it is concluded through the assemblies of workers, trade unions or representatives of trade union or unitary workers. What is driving a strike or what is driving to start or maintain a strike? Any of these activities that trade unions can do? Is that punishable? Is that what the Basque Nationalist Party wants, to be punishable? Frankly, we are surprised that this concept of 'lead' is introduced, because we know how lax it can always be to penalize, even now, those who so far had no criminalization in the Spanish State or in its labor legislative framework, such as information pickets. In short, in a supposed reduction like the one we are faced with, what is covered is an extension of the criminal assumptions of the right to strike. Why do you do that? Because while strike is an individual right, it is exercised collectively, and if it hinders the exercise of the right to strike, we are collectively making it difficult for strikes to take place. This may please or please employers very much, but it does not like Tubacex workers, for example, who manifest themselves in Laudio or in PCBs, Barakaldo and Sestao. They expect us and us to defend their positions and politicians and governments to be sensitive to their demands and not to be beaten by police. That is the reality that we are living today. I'll tell you one more thing. In this rostrum it has also been said on more than one occasion that Basques and Basques are privileged within the Spanish State because we have very high income levels, higher wages than the rest of the Spanish State. Point out this fact, because it also helps them: the Basque Country and Navarra - Euskal Herria - is the area of Europe with the most strikes in the 21st century. From 2009 to the present, nine general strikes Have they stopped to think that even an organized and strong union base has to do with the improvement of the living conditions of the workers? Have they stopped to think that maybe that's why we have the levels we have? In any case, and to conclude, we are grateful that the amendments have been tabled because they help people understand and make the debate visible. It helps, for example, people to understand that there are different Basque agendas, that the agenda of the Basque sovereignist and independenceist left is in the defense of the rights of the working class, of the Basque working class and, to the extent that we share umbrellas or legal support with the working class of other nations of the Spanish State, of the working class as a whole. There are other Basque agendas that probably coincide or pina in the defense of the interests of employers, but that is not the agenda of the Basque independenceist left and it is not the only Basque agenda. The president of the Basque Nationalist Party said a few days ago that he was now better off with the People's Party because it seemed that the People's Party had moderated. With all due respect, seeing this amendment, I could rather conclude the opposite, that you can get along better with the People's Party because, with amendments like these, it seems that the Basque Nationalist Party has receded. I end with a quote from a historical character who I think comes to the fore to point out the importance of the right to strike as an instrument of defence. This historical character was such a Lenin. He said that every strike reminds the capital that it is not they who are the true masters, but the workers, who proclaim their rights more and more forcefully. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u20	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. What a pity that the Ministers of the Interior and Justice have not stayed! Because, of course, they had to take the picture and leave. Here we are going to discuss something that directly concerns you, the repeal of a paragraph of an article of the Criminal Code, but it seems that it was not in your interest. And what a pity also because there have been two declarations of intent, just before I came up to this very substantial rostrum. Specifically, the previous speaker in the debate has spoken of murders. The political descendant of ETA has spoken of murders in this rostrum. And another political group, which even rules in Catalonia, says that it will again violate the law; it has given us that title. So one is going to break the law and the other has talked about murders. Too bad they didn't stay! They should get the message to them. On the subject, what we are discussing today is the final adoption of the proposed organic law aimed at repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. The Socialist Party wants to decriminalize a conduct previously defined in the Penal Code; it is something simple and crude. There are people, especially organisations, who are interested in this initiative, although, to be honest, I have to tell you that I do not consider it urgent or necessary. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that what is being discussed here is not a repeal of the Citizens' Security Act, nor a comprehensive reform of the Criminal Code, but a repeal of a specific section of the Criminal Code concerning the enforcement of pickets in the event of a strike. Ladies and gentlemen, howling? Are we really talking today, the one he's falling with, about strikes? If that's what we're going to do, they won't be working. We should focus on concrete measures to generate employment. We all know that this initiative comes from representative unions - which we also know where they are from - and there is one thing very clear, ladies and gentlemen: the situation in Spain is terrible. This health crisis will lead us to the worst economic crisis in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment figures scare - and hope even worse - but, ladies and gentlemen, what about the trade unions? Has anyone seen them? I do not want to imagine this figure of unemployment with governments of another colour, because the streets would not be so peaceful. For what we do find, for example, UGT is to put its obese machinery to work to appeal the decision of the Delegation of the Government of Madrid to suspend the concentrations of the 8-M. We are concerned about health and work, ladies and gentlemen, by that order; we care about everything that has to do with health and work; others are in other things. Once again speaking of this initiative and in order for us to understand beyond this Chamber, it is intended - the Socialist Group, nothing more and nothing less than the majority party in the current government, at the demands, too, of the protera of Bildu, as we have all been able to see, and of the independence sector - that the Penal Code should have nothing to say when, declared a strike, the law of the jungle prevails and all workers, whatever their situation, can be forced, even violently, to go on strike, to stop working. Force it. Look, we could agree, with nuances, on a certain drop in penalties for certain acts - worth the redundancy - without violence carried out during a strike, but we cannot admit that behaviors that are subject to criminal punishment are decriminalized. In other words, we are being asked that the generic crime of coercion be sufficient to punish violent attitudes that invade the right of the Spaniards to access a job. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, in addition, you, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, pushed for a review of the final judgment already handed down pursuant to this provision. Look, I already know that the members of the Socialist Party, of Podemos and of their majority Frankenstein - they are all here - really like to put on the judges' robe, especially when there are sentences that they don't like, and there are many that they don't like. Also from there the campal battle to lead the General Council of the Judiciary, which has not ended. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the real world. In the strike process, most workers who exercise this constitutionally recognized right do so peacefully. And you know why? For fear of punishment for delinquency; this is first of all of Criminology, but it is true that the right to strike is a right, not an obligation. That must be very clear to us; it is recognized in article 28 of the Constitution; it is a fundamental right, but it is a right, not an obligation, and you do not have it very clear. The truth is that there are times - the least, fortunately, too - when some pickets come to exercise coercion, and even violence, and they come to attack workers who do not exercise this right. That is the work of the Security Forces and Bodies. My colleagues act to guarantee the legitimate rights of workers, whether they strike or not. As I have seen the coercion, threats and aggressions in the field of strike celebrations, I am aware that what you claim is a derogation from this precept, and this derogation implies loss of rights. It's not nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. In the middle of the pandemic, with about a hundred thousand Spanish fallen, we, if we had their quota - which, unfortunately, we do not have - do not use it for this type of thing; we would be talking about health, education, generating employment and saving lives, which is what we would have to occupy right now. In short, and as I said in the initial debate, I want the strike to be a right based on workers' freedom to exercise it; I want it and I want it in the Constitution. What you, Socialists, Communists and the rest of the Government, as always the extreme left governs, claim is to take away quotas of freedom from individuals. He concluded by saying that the right to strike is a right, not an obligation. So, with our vote, no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u22	Thank you, Mr. Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u23	Good morning, everybody. The truth is that when you come here, to the Chamber, and you listen to these right, you feel happy to come from where you come, because there the right, this right that is not homologable to any European right - both Citizens and VOX, as well as the People's Party -, fits into a minibus, and so goes. But we are going to something else, and that is where I address the Socialist Party and the comrades of Podemos. We must be braver, much braver, because this right, which is not homologable to the European, if it were in power, would not be as soft as you are; it would be much braver and would go to the root of the problems, and I will tell you why. Article 315.3. I submitted a non-law proposal in 2016, which was passed by the Legislature, by this House; it is 2021, it has taken five years simply to modify a small point. We would have liked for you to come with the repeal of the Law gag, which you carry in your programs. That's being brave. By the way, those who are so concerned about order and law, how many business pickets have been convicted of coercion to strike? What penal article condemns corporate coercion? I give you the answer, because you don't know it: none, zero, no business pickets, no business coercion. For any article that is criminal there are other articles; when an article is made designed simply to reduce the right to strike, we already know what it is for and who it is for. They are not homologable to any European right. I was telling you, Socialist Group gentlemen, that if this right was here, every Friday would be a Friday of pain. It's been over a year and a half, and we're waiting for important things. I think that the people we gave them support, the parties on the left, even not talking about Catalonia already, talking about the Kingdom of Spain, those who want another Spain are waiting for courage and courage. And I'm going to tell you why: Mordaza Law, it had to be here already, because nowadays it is no longer used to 315.3 for repression, it is used the Mordaza Law, by which in Catalonia there are only more than 3000 accused; that is the issue, we have to approve Europe. We're on. Gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, if they do not fulfill their programs, Law gags, abrogation of labor reforms, at least touch the most damaging aspects. From ERTE to ERE there is going to be a step, and time is running out and so is our patience. Put yourself in the rotten judicial system, this judicial system that you know is going against us today and then it's going against you; it doesn't work. You have to repeal the 2013 Pensions Act. Listen to what is also said about the European right. And I'll tell you two things, for example, the crime of sedition. You asked for a request from the European Parliament, consisting of 705 Members of Parliament, from which, with all their diplomatic machinery, with the strength of the great European People's Party and the European Socialist Party, 400 votes were cast. It seems to me that this should cause you to reflect on the crime of sedition. Four hundred votes, and if we remove Spanish Members who are going to raise their hands by obligation, they are just a few less, because they are not very partial than we say. There were 400 out of 705; 248 noes, 45 abstentions and 12 who did not go to vote. Listen to Europe. This is not a legal problem. This law is a matter of power. Gentlemen who today go against the strike, no social rights, no national rights that are proud of today were obtained without struggles, they were obtained without strikes, they were obtained without people who were on the other side. It's never been because of their strikes or their movements, because they don't know, they've never done it, they've always been at the side of power. You right now would be on the side of slavery, which was also legal at the time. That's his way of being, that's his order and the law, his order and the Francoist law. Gentlemen of Podemos and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, be braver, touch the crime of sedition, end repression, return to the field of politics what would never have had to be judicialized, bring the amnesty law. These people speak of amnesty: here amnesties and we were very generous, very generous, perhaps too generous, with the Francoists. There was an Amnesty Law with people who were murderers, who were genocidal; an Amnesty Law was made for the genocidals. Be generous to people whose only crime, which in Europe is not regarded as such, that the European courts do not regard as such...; take note and leave the cave and turn once and for all towards a European democracy, which is filling them with so many things and so many issues. Here we are with the law and order and these speeches that seem to come out of the black and white knot, the truth. Finally, you have a problem in Catalonia, and here I encourage the Spanish Republicans, to the Spanish left to be braver - we have them cornered, they fit in a minibus - and we encourage them to continue convincing people, because this right is not worth us or serves us. It can be liberal, but what we have heard here is not liberalism; it is pure and hard Francoism, people who have not passed the page, who were against a Constitution that now defends and now carry it as a system of power. Nothing else, they can't transform it; forty years later a pact with the franchisors can't be touched. It's the sharia, it's the Bible. Get out of the cave, take a look at Europe. Congratulations on bringing this initiative, but I remind you and tell the Socialist Group and We can that our patience is running out. We gave them the motion of censure, we voted for the budgets; one day they're going to ask what happened, that day they're going to have a surprise. The third grade of the other day was a very hard blow. They ask us for repentance. We're not gonna regret being who we are. We're never gonna regret being who we are. We have given them the hand of dialogue to resolve a conflict politically and you are rejecting it. If they reject this hand, there will be no justice, and where there is no justice there is no social peace, and where there is no social peace I would do it again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u24	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u25	Good morning. I believe that all of us here today have organisations, environments, events that have brought us to be Members. For example, I learned to look at the world from the hand of a class union. I am a proud unionist, piquetera and I have organized or helped organize and participated in three general strikes. Today is a day for repair, and many people and many situations come to mind: Laura, for example, screaming from a van at six o'clock in the morning 'Being picket is trendy'; today especially, but we always have them in our heads. That is why the reform of Article 315.3 was the first initiative we registered just when we entered this House in 2016. Then we did not know the slowness of this House, and in May 2017 it was accepted in due course. We entered that hole, basically known as the deadline for enlargement of amendments, and fifty-three extensions, then the People's Party brought us an amendment to the whole, which they lost, of course. Since then, two elections, and today, at last, we vote the result of the presentation. The Criminal Code is not an ordinary legal body; rights do not appear, but rather the consequences of non-compliance. It's not a place you'd want to be, really. Therefore, 315.3 must be repealed, because it is an unjust, lapsed and, moreover, displaced article that makes it difficult to exercise a fundamental right and criminalizes those who guarantee its exercise. I do not know how many of those present have never participated in a strike; not even sectoral, I no longer say general. I won't ask, not to be depressed, but I will tell you that a strike starts long before the day of your call. To summon are two words, in fact; to do it takes a lot of work, are thousands of assemblies in work centers. It is spectacular and worthwhile, because a strike is solidarity, hope, freedom, as our dear poet Margarit told us, and, above all, progress, that makes some so nervous. Innumerable are the rights that we have won thanks to the strikes, but go ahead an obvious: they annoy. A strike is tension and confrontation, and so it must be. A strike must bother; otherwise, it's something else. A strike is a fierce criticism, a challenge, a enough one, is the last resort that workers have to demand basically dignity, and that is not usually the case for companies or governments here to seek strategies to criminalize and delegitimize strikes. In this country before 2012 practically no one knew what 315.3 was. He showed up, shot himself in 2012. And why is that? Basically, following the psychopathic policies with which the previous crisis was managed, when, of course, strikes and protests multiplied. The People's Party called the Prosecutor's Office, and it acted, of course; arbitrarily, it acted. They needed not only to repress the streets and criticism, but to have a framework that justified cuts and repression, which basically legitimized policies that were contrary to the interests of the majority. Nothing more effective than criminalization, and they found a fantastic relic of the past. The 315 - I must remind you - is in the title relating to crimes against the rights of workers, makes actions against the exercise of the fundamental rights of freedom of association - I know this sounds a little rare - and strikes. This is what defines, but, conversely, in point 3 it creates a specific type for pickets, that is, against those who promote and guarantee the exercise of a fundamental right. Article 315.3 goes against the spirit of the rule, making the Penal Code an anti-shock law that criminalizes the activity of workers' representatives and even of the strikers themselves. It is unjustifiable that hundreds of people have gone through a tortuous criminal process for the exercise of a right that is recognized and constitutional; today we owe them an apology. In addition, it equates workers and companies. The capacity and tools that many companies possess and use to coerce have no point of comparison with those of workers. Let's make it clear - I have said it many times -, in a general strike the most effective and most violent picket, gentlemen, is that of the employer; let's see if you understand. [[Applauds]] They coerce, threaten or violate fundamental rights with total impunity - and with their sympathy, as I see it - with indirects, comments, looks and threats. People know that in a general strike the job is played. That's right, and you don't care. Therefore, there are no entrepreneurs judged by Article 315.3. They are all trade unionists, men and women with no criminal record who have committed the offence of exercising a recognized right. The Constitutional Court - I do not say this - establishes that a strike is a right of individual ownership. But in that case your exercise is not individual, it is a collective exercise. The Constitutional Court includes the powers of information, publicity and extension by persuading other workers as an essential part - I repeat that the Constitutional Court says, for once it says so! - of the content of its own right. The pickets, ladies and gentlemen, are fundamental, because they basically serve to give effect to the right to strike, because the rights are not fulfilled just by educating us, we must be able to guarantee them, and that is what the pickets do. Article 315.3 is deeply anachronistic, is a fossil. It comes not from 1976, but from the Criminal Code of Primo de Rivera, 1928. It is recovered in 1976 and is maintained in the 1995 Criminal Code. Basically, it was born in a context of repression, in a context where the strike, indeed, was illegal, was a crime. But now it is a fundamental right in our order. How can it be justified that a fossil of 1928 should be maintained in a democracy? It's not up to me. The result is more than three hundred trade unionists charged with exercising a constitutional right, regardless of the evidence or the facts or absolutely nothing. All that mattered was that they were trade unionists and that the right to strike had to be pursued. And the worst is that it is an unnecessary article, because coercion is reflected in articles 171 and 172 of the Criminal Code. The generic type of coercion perfectly protects the freedom not to strike. The issue has never been coercion, but, basically, whether we protect the right to strike, and that is obvious. The constitutionalization of the right to strike is one of the key elements of the welfare pact, because it democratizes it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u26	Mrs. Vidal, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u27	I'm on my way. Criminalizing, demonizing, treating strikes as a kind of social pathology has never avoided their exercise. The only thing they will promote in this case is that their exercise is much worse and aggravates its consequences. Democracy is always ahead. Today perseverance will bear fruit and, as the workers sang, bread and roses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today is a historic day. Repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code is one of the outstanding debts we have as democrats with trade unionism. That's why I think we can congratulate each other. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the progressive majority of this House has already shown its support throughout the process for an initiative that is just and relevant, the right-wings have had no difficulty in aligning themselves to dissent. The amendments tabled along the lines of the debate that we have been having so far basically talk about conditioning and reducing the fundamental right to strike. It is unacceptable for VOX to raise penalties for coercion in the context of a strike. Obviously, these amendments make it clear that you have no concern for guaranteeing, as you say, the right to work, but rather for suppressing conduct that does not ideologically align with you. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do you really believe that you live in a country where it is necessary to increase the penalties for the crimes of coercion in the context of strike? Do you really believe that we are living in a situation of labour conflict that could justify this tightening of the Penal Code? You want to impose your reactionary agenda, not legislate to protect workers, as you say. I'm really telling you it's exhausting and discouraging to listen to them. You build very sound speeches but they are constant and abundantly imprecise. It should be recalled that at the last plenary session in which we dealt with this issue, the spokesman for VOX gave me scandalized words that were a literal quote from a ruling of the Constitutional Court that I used in my speech. You talk about work, law and order, while you forget that the right to strike is a fundamental right. This means that we must safeguard its exercise in the most secure and comprehensive way possible, and it seems logical to think that it is incompatible with limiting it from the criminal point of view. By the way, between so much rhetoric and resounding term, you forget that the criminal law in Spain is governed by two principles, that of minimal intervention and that of last ratio. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you continue to insist on arguments that, no matter how much you want to wear technicalities and words that are difficult to understand, are not supported legally. They cannot oppose a generic freedom with a fundamental right, they cannot claim that we want to leave coercion outside the Criminal Code and they cannot compare the exercise of a fundamental right with situations or acts that do not have this constitutional coverage. We need to understand once and for all that expression and protest must be protected, because it is consistent with democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, you are trying to put progressive forces within the framework of the anti-systems. You want to take this reform to a playground where the left defends a sort of malevolent and all of you defend the established order, and that's not true. When we talk about repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, we talk about eliminating a specific type that precisely what it does is to imply that the context of strike is an environment given to crime, something tremendously unfair and insecure from the legal point of view. [[Applauds]] This leads me to say, especially with regard to the People's Party, that it constantly raises a false dichotomy, that it is not a question of choosing between the specific type of coercion for strikes or their total decriminalization, but of eliminating a precept that, as I have just said, criminalizes strikes and trade unionism. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you can appeal to my parliamentary group without denigrating trade unionism. That is why I ask you to have more respect and to leave the thick strokes already. And I tell you more, that you talk about your concern for the right to work is bloody. I remind you that your approach to getting out of the worst economic crisis in this country was based on lowering redundancies, reducing wages and guaranteeing the capital of entrepreneurs, in the face of workers' rights. [[Applauds]] Your labor reform has brought an entire generation to temporality and precariousness; to my generation, a generation that ran out of future because you deliberately cut off the cables of the social elevator, a generation that sees its mental health increasingly compromised. [[Rumors]] Have a little bit of modesty.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u31	Finally, it is striking that the People's Party called for the separate vote on the VOX amendments in order to be able to stand in favour of some of them. As always, VOX puts the music and you dance to the compass. However, on this occasion I was surprised that Citizens also aimed to catch the sticks at this party to follow the pace. Surprisingly, Lords of Citizens, in other proceedings you have been open to supporting this initiative; the truth is that I hoped to find you in another position this time. [[Rumors]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the final conclusion reached after the multitude of debates we have had on this subject is that you are annoyed by freedom when it is all. Look, you're very concerned about the coercion in the context of work, but you feed manifestations of fascists in the midst of the pandemic. They are very concerned about the lack of order, but Mrs. Olona shouts on her social networks to destroy murals that recognize feminist intellectuals and pioneers. [[Applauds]] You are gravely concerned about the 8M, but while the feminists have stayed at home, you did not hurt clothes for filling Catalonia with intervenors from all parts of Spain in the midst of the pandemic as well. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, you do not care about freedom, you do not care about safeguarding your status quo. You are terrified of the union protest because you know that the force of reason does not accompany you. You know that common organization and construction threaten your privileges and open the way to equality and democracy. The next time you write one of these perorates in favor of order, remember: right now the only ones who have proven to be anti-systems are all of you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name, on the screen. As I usually do, I also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the voting. Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law repealing article 315(3) of the Criminal Code. Amendment tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 241 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 8 telematics votes; against, 108 plus 224 telematics votes, 332; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u34	It's rejected. [[Rumors]] Amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 241 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 8 telematics votes; against, 108 plus 210 telematics votes, 318; abstentions, 23 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u35	It's rejected. Amendments tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 108 plus 241 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 1 plus 51 telematics votes, 52; against, 70 plus 139 telematics votes, 209; abstentions, 37 plus 51 telematics votes, 88. Madam President, it is rejected. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 108 plus 241 telematics votes, 349; 1 plus 46 telematics votes, 47; 107 plus 194 telematics votes, 301; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u36	They're rejected. Amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 108 plus 241 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 37 plus 64 telematics votes, 101; against, 70 plus 130 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 1 plus 47 telematics votes, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u37	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of two Commission opinions on organic legislative initiatives, items 26 and 27 of the agenda, which have to be put to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. That is why, in compliance precisely with this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 3 p.m. I would also like to inform you that from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. today, non-legislative proposals and motions, committee opinions and the respective general votes, Senate amendments, amendments to the whole and the request for the establishment of the committee of inquiry will be able to be voted on by telematical means. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u39	We continue with the debate on the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary in office. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group in the first place. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, to start the debate, I would ask you for a little silence, please. [[Pause]] Thank you so much. Mr. Mazon, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u40	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. We have already said that a functioning body that has completed its term of office and continues on an interim basis must have some red lines as to what it can and cannot do, and this happens in any institution that has normal regulations. And what you can do are the ordinary day-to-day affairs, the rules, those that do not compromise the discretionary decisions of the incoming body, and therefore this change seems logical to us. I do not know whether in the end the parties that can reach the two fifths to make the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary will agree or not, but what I do know is that we are witnessing a regrettable show of negotiations, still a shameful blockade of the institutions that, by the way, is not the first time that it happens. I would tell you to take the opportunity to inform us today, here, basically these two parties, about what you are talking about, whether you are only talking about a distribution of posts or you are also talking about procedures or systems of choice because then we Members will have to speak; we hoped you will tell us something here about what you are agreeing on. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the system of election must be changed, a new agreement must be reached with the maximum consensus, and this must be matched by the two classic positions that have taken place in the Spanish legislation on the election of the twelve members of the judicial career. I have already put a proposal on the table to debate: that if the Courts do not reach agreement within one month, the judges themselves will have to make their proposal and, if the parliamentarians reject it, a system of drawing lots between those proposed by the parliamentarians themselves will be introduced. This combines the role of Parliament and judicial independence. Doctrine there are routals, besides I have already proposed to the ministry to form a working group...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u41	Your Honor, your time is up. Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u42	I'm on my way. I only hope that this new political movement will not extend this renewal much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u43	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. No wonder the Minister of Justice is not present because, logically, seeing how this body of law is passed is not the most gratifying thing for a Minister of Justice if he also fulfils the status of judge. Yesterday a Minister of the Government of Spain accused the opposition of attacking the justice system, saying it the day before the vote on this law, and saying it the week when a part of the Government voted in Brussels to discredit the Spanish justice system, to humiliate the Spanish justice system and to say that the Spanish justice system does not work. It's curious what some people have about democracy. If 400 out of 700 votes one thing, that thing has been approved. If it is approved that Puigdemont no longer has immunity, that is what has been approved. And then it's said: No, but 400 doesn't seem enough. So, we already know that for some, democracy is only if they win the votes. They will have to assume that the vote has been taken and that it has therefore been left without immunity. But it is the same because, in the end, as whatever is said and what is intended is to discredit justice, we find that instead of dedicating time, for example, to resolve, to seek, to make available to justice more means to resolve the almost four hundred murders that remain unresolved, what we do is to destroy weapons to say that the terrorist organization ETA has already disappeared, and just so does the president who has the votes thanks to those who continue to support the terrorist band ETA. It's all such a waste of time... And that's what we do when we question the entire Spanish judicial system. But that's not what a minority group does, no, it's what the Spanish government parties do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u45	Thank you. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning. We, of course, are going to support this measure; it seems to us positive that legislative changes be made to force those people who resist to comply with the laws, even from the high judiciary. Mr Lesmes, we could call this amendment a Lesmes measure, he has been in office since 2013. But for us the question that flies over and that seems that no one is willing to do it, or at least there is not a clear majority to do it, is who the judges of the high judiciary serve. This is the negotiating spectacle that we are seeing between the two major parties of bipartisanship, which continue to choose judges with a dynamic of linking to party interests. While Mr Cuixart and Mr Sánchez are being revoked the third grade, Mr Villarejo is on the street and the State Attorney General is being caught eating it with Mr Inda the same day, but it seems that this is no reason to take action. While the emeritus king Juan Carlos I extraordinarily regularizes 4 million euros of businesses that seem unlegal and are not investigated, the lords Romeva, Turull, Bassa and Junqueras are investigated and condemned for misappropriation for putting ballot boxes. While there are thousands and thousands of sentences that condemn evictions, there is not a single process that pursues the great speculators of the big capitals. What are the interests of the judges, ladies and gentlemen? This is what we need to talk about. It's over, President. Since justice is not democratic because it is not at the service of people, we make our own the words of Arenal Conception in a debate that already existed three centuries ago. She defends amnesty because she said that in a legal system and with a functioning like that in the Spanish state, when people who make politics are condemned amnesty measures are essential. So we recovered three centuries later Mrs Concepción Arenal and asked for amnesty for the Catalan political conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u47	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u48	Egun on. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Today, there is a legal gap that is not new, but has been in existence for decades. And what is obvious is that if there is not a blockade for the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, that gap could have followed many more decades. What has triggered this change? For that blockade on the part of some parties to the renewal, but also a career of appointments - especially of judges and magistrates in the high courts - and all this accompanied by a chulesque and rebellious attitude on the part of several members of the General Council of the Judiciary. How do you solve this? It's not easy. I always remember that Mr. Santiago said: to resign. That would be logical. As they do not resign, I believe that this measure, while we are going to support it, remains a little short. Why? Because I believe that these people should be terminated once they have finished their duties and that there will be only a minimum number of members elected by drawing lots or by an age criterion for purely administrative matters. I say that we do not see this proposal wrong, that we have supported it from the outset and that we are going to vote in favour, but I think it is short. The underlying problem lies precisely in the politicization of that body, which then results in political contamination of the high judiciary. We have already said here - I am convinced - that the vast majority of judges and magistrates act on an independent basis, of course!; however, that there are too many judges in those high courts elected by a purely political criterion to act according to certain interests and derived from it is also true and undeniable. This is undeniable not because I say so, but because there are numerous reports which denounce the lack of judicial independence in Spain and also the perception of justice on the part of citizens, placing themselves at levels that are not those of a full democracy. If we talk about the division of powers, of Montesquieu, I think it leaves much to be desired of the situation in the Spanish state. Of course, now you're making a distribution of chromes to see how it is renewed. By the way, they'll tell me how many times they've announced there's an agreement. Now, with the political situation that arose yesterday, I find it difficult to reach that possible agreement. By the way, the previous time a spokesman for the People's Party said that Euskal Herria Bildu was also trying to co-opt the square; no, we have no interest in being in that organ and we also criticize the way of choice because it is the origin of the problem. Efforts are now being made to prevent these members of the General Council of the Judiciary from continuing to elect politicized judges, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, evil is being done. All those judges who were placed in those courts for political interests are already in place. Recently I was wondering a journalist in an interview, out of controversy about whether Spain is a full democracy, what I thought. I replied that yes, I believe that Spanish a democracy, like the rest of the States of the European Union, but that it has a lack due to the nexus with the previous regime and the so-called myth of the Transition in which all the organs of state leadership, of judicial, military, police powers, continued from the day before the next, from Francoists to Democrats. And forty years later, what comes to be called police cloacas, judicial cloacas, which are usually not seen much, but when the territorial issue, whether about Catalonia or about Euskal Herria, or the issue of the model of State, the monarchy, is brought to light, they do not hide, and act by applying all revenge, exceptionality, applying ad hoc regulations without any disguise, believing and taking hold as the true defenders of the homeland and of unity. However, we are seeing recently that these sewers also report and also open proceedings against government parties. Therefore, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, take care of the Idus of March; we see some members, in this case of the Socialist Party, applauding, supporting, talking about judicial independence when genuine barbarities and meaningless judicial applications are committed, cases like that of Catalonia or Euskal Herria. Here's the crux of the matter. If these judges are so independent, what is the problem for the General Council of the Judiciary to continue to elect judges? Aren't they going to implement independent measures? But today we are presenting here for adoption a measure not to do so, because there is the problem. Judges are being elected on a unique and exclusively political basis, so that they can continue to act in defence of reactionary and ultra-reactionary sectors that exist in this State. That is why we will vote in favour, but the problem is there and it is even greater. We should go to the root of the matter. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u49	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u50	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary while it is in office. The explanatory statement of the proposal tells us that we are faced with a legal gap that represents a deficit in the constitutional design of the State, unlike what happens to the Government. However, ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware that the underlying reason for this reform is not the one stated in the explanatory statement, but to overcome the unjustifiable blockade that the People's Party has been practicing for more than two years for the renewal of organs of constitutional relevance by relying on the reinforced majority required and thus generating a constitutional anomaly and a situation clearly inadequate for the proper functioning of the institutions, as the Constitutional Court described the consequences of the political blockades on the renewal of the council, blocks that, on the other hand, are not new, another two years have already been suffered, also by the People's Party, when the council elected in 2001 saw its term expire in 2006 and was not renewed until 2008. And the reform of the legal regime of the General Council of the Judiciary to deal with this situation is also not new in our system. This was the case with the reform of article 570 of the Organic Law sponsored by the People's Party through Organic Law 4/2013, from which the General Council is considered renewed since only one of the Chambers renews its members. This reform rested on the calculation presumably made by the People's Party on the fact that parliamentary majorities have been different in Congress and in the Senate. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, through the parliamentary groups that directly support it, seeks to overcome the blockade of the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary that the People's Party, as I told you, has been practicing for a time that is already moving towards two and a half years. However, ladies and gentlemen, not before with the solitaire reform of the People's Party in 2013, nor now with an express reform in solitaire and through a procedure that makes no mandatory report, neither before nor now - I said - the alteration of the structures of the General Council of the Judiciary is the best way, in our opinion, to deal with the problems arising between the majority political parties for the election of the members of the General Council. At the same time as we call unacceptable the current blockade of the People's Party, which implements a guaranteed election process based on strengthened majority voting for its own benefit and to the detriment of the institution, we cannot fail to censor the reform discussed, and not only by the procedure followed, as it pointed out, but also because it is, in our view, not suitable for the purpose of unlocking the renewal suffered by the general council, except perhaps in an indirect but not assured way. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution to this situation of blockage of political origin must come from tackling the problem at its root, a problem which is nothing other than the application of sectarian, partisan criteria, either through the loting of quotas, or through biased vetoes. In short, the solution to a problem that arises in the area of majority political parties should not be addressed by displacing a dispute of a political nature to which it has not been created, the General Council, and even less by equalizing the political nature of a Government with the constitutional guarantee nature of the General Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the call to the strengthened majority called for for certain appointments seeks to create consensus, seeks to stimulate the tendencies towards unanimity, not the instrumentalization by the majority political parties of the procedure for appointing the members. No change restores the damage that is done to the institutions until the image that is transmitted from them through the behaviors is changed. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that we have a problem with laws, but rather a problem with behaviour and, as we were told yesterday in this House, taking care of democracy is also the care of the institutions, and the general council is one of them and this House, another of them, and the political parties and their obligations are also the same, because a democratic state is a state of parties and, if the image of these is degraded by their behaviour, the very image of democracy is also degraded, leaving the door open to populism or corporate technocracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. It is the third time that I have come to this rostrum to talk about the independence of the judiciary, to talk about the issue of the competence to appoint the General Council of the judiciary and also to talk about the form of selection of the members of the General Council of the judiciary. And I'm not tired, I'll come up here as many times as I need to defend the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers and the need for neither the legislature nor the executive to engage in interference in the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. [[Applauds]] That's what you do; that's what you're doing. Look, it cannot be forgotten that this reform of the competence to appoint the General Council of the Judiciary is inextricably linked to its first reform, which is already registered and which has not withdrawn from the Congressional Register, to elect the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary by an absolute majority of this House. It is, in short, that threat that hangs over the People's Party to come into agreement with you. I mean, you act with that threat and you put this second step as if this was little, which isn't. You also act with the arrogance of mathematics, because you say: well, as I have 176 votes in favour, why am I going to recognize the rights of this country's democratic opposition? Why am I going to have a dialogue? Why should I allow appearances in the Commission? Why should I allow the General Council of the Judiciary, which is the body that is affected by the reform, to give its opinion when the Council also requests it? And you say, with your arrogance, with your apisonator of votes: I will not even listen to the General Council of the Judiciary. This is a disloyalty to the institutional system recognized by the Spanish Constitution. This is a betrayal at the beginning of the balance between powers; absolutely a disloyalty that of the United We can explain, but in the real Socialist Party it is something absolutely innumerable. Why are you doing this? What is the feeling under these reforms of election of the members, on the one hand, and of abolishing the board's appointment competition, on the other? You don't believe in the independence of the judiciary! Here's the thing. You don't believe in the independence of the judiciary! [[Applauds]] Because if you believed in the independence of the judiciary, you wouldn't spend a second trying to narrow down the powers of your appointments, trying to get the vowels selected through political power. You believe that you can influence judges and magistrates in sentencing. That's the real bottom line. You also want to let the Judicial Power die of starvation; you want no squares of absolutely essential relevance to the ordinary functioning of the Judicial Power. I wonder one thing, the three magistrates who are part of the government, Margarita Robles, Fernando Grande-Marlaska and the Minister of Justice, Juan Carlos Campo, are going to sit down and look into those 72 posts that the General Council of the Judiciary has appointed in these two years of interinity and are going to tell them: are you illegitimate judges, have you appointed an illegitimate organ?, are they going to tell them that after supporting this reform when Juan Carlos Campo also appointed in interinity people of his sympathy in these positions, being, as I say, the council in this situation? As I say, that United We can do it - which said one thing when I was in the opposition but when I got into the official car I think the opposite, which rejects the sentences that harm you and only accepts those that benefit you, which speaks of the armed judicial arm of the Spanish right, which votes against Spanish justice wanting Puigdemont's immunity not to be lifted - that it does it United We can, I repeat, well, but you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, why do you do it? You do it because you want to create chaos; once these relevant positions of the judiciary are not covered, then you will blame the People's Party and, in this way, threaten it to enter into the distribution of the pie. Half the cake for you, half the cake for me and the candle, which is the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, of course progressive, of course progressive. And the People's Party comes into the game because they're terrified of losing power, losing their piece of cake. What, now names like Victoria Rosell or José Ricardo de Prada are going to stop being important to the People's Party? Because what scares me is that you don't get colored; that is, you are talking about Victoria Rosell and José Ricardo de Prada as obstacles to reaching an agreement and you say it with an absolute lack of shame; in short, you care about a curse that knows that they are these people or that they are the others. Look, let's change the selection system for the judges, let's do it quickly, and immediately unblock the situation. Three political groups have put forward three different systems of selection of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary; man, there is a group, the People's Group, which proposes to change the system of selection of judges and which then, however, is incoherently negotiating the distribution of the cake, the distribution of the chromes, which is a little strange in short. But then, above all, all that scares is that you want to name your people. I have cited two names that everyone links with Unite Podemos; United We can find it subject, that it has an exhausting judicial agenda with a lot of cases that sprinkle them with alleged corruption. You want to name your own, you want to name the people who are going to name the judges who are going to make the sentences in cases of corruption that are chasing you, this is the tremendous thing. When a judge approves the opposition, he goes to a people, to a judicial party without means, where computers do not work, without people in the judicial office, with a lot of paper - yes, yes, of paper, because the digital judicial file does not exist - and he starts to make good sentences and to perform his public service tasks; you believe that this judge will ascend because he makes very good sentences, because he works a lot? No, he will only ascend if he has friends, he will only ascend if he has godparents!, and that's what you want, that's what you want. Let justice really work, get your hands out of justice, but above all, stop it from the means because that's the problem. The Minister of Justice believes that there are sufficient means in justice...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u53	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u54	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u55	It must be over now, please. We'll be strict in time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u56	I'm on my way. And justice without means will never be independent. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u58	Thank you very much, President. The other day we were able to hear right here, about the agreement to renew the Spanish Radio Television Council, tender cries of love uttered with scorn by the extremists, by the right-wing fanatics: Let them kiss, let them know!, we heard with blush and shame others. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the events, I believe that yesterday the foundations were laid for starting a beautiful love story between the two right-wings, cowardice and the extremist, and for me they can already kiss and I sincerely hope that it will not be nice for them. Reasonable questions that are answered with a yes or no and that anyone could answer: Is it lawful for the PP to vote judges, or the PSOE? No, no, Does PP, or PSOE, have more legitimacy to appoint judges than any other party? No, no, Is Judge De Prada a bad judge? No, what do you have against Judge De Prada's PP? [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Yes]] That you condemned them? Yeah, I guess so. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No]] Was this sentence fair? Yeah, sure. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No]] Does the PP's obsession with preventing the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, vetoing judges, vetoing parties have anything to do with the judicial calendar that awaits him in the coming years? Yeah. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No]] Does the PP believe that with his obstructive maneuvers he is serving the interests of the country and the citizens? No, no, Do you think the PP will do you any better with these expired judges? Yeah, definitely. Do you think the PP will make you worse with renewed judges? Yeah, sure. Is it ethically acceptable for a General Council of the Judiciary to make appointments if its term of office has expired for more than two years? Well, no. It is not ethically acceptable and in that I agree with Mr Iñarritu. Why don't you quit? Why don't we stop them? Ladies and gentlemen - and this question is not for the PP, this is for everyone - has not the time come for a fistful time to change this so dark, so opaque and so cloudy way of choosing judges? Yeah, definitely. And one more proposal, by lot among all judges who are fit for office, for example; another. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u59	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u60	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief, but we did want our position on this reform to be recorded. Frankly, we believe that it is not the reform of the General Council of the Judiciary in depth that would be needed. This reform ultimately has a hidden object that is to force negotiation, and this today everyone knows, is palm and notorious. Therefore, we understand that this reform has been nothing more than an instrumental weapon to force an agreement that, in the end, has not arrived and that in the electoral time ahead of us I believe that it will not happen either. Frankly, I think that there are self-sacrificing judges to perform their work, to issue sentences, to try to dictate justice in thousands of first instance courts, social courts, litigation courts and other organs much closer to the citizen than all those you point out in these controversies, but what citizens find at the end are eternal procedures, sentences that have never just arrived, sometimes lack of respect for professionals such as to point out trials every fifteen minutes in the same morning or, as pointed out earlier, the famous zero role that leads only to presenting the writings telematically and, after three days, to have to present the writings on paper in the corresponding court. It is clear that with this illustrative list of topics the judiciary does not work, the delivery of justice does not work in the right and optimal way for many citizens. We therefore believe that it is necessary, at the very least, to give a new impetus or a new approach, which does not continue to decide who has the expired office and who has proved that he does not know how to manage the judiciary properly, which affects so many citizens. What's the plan if not? We sincerely believe that immobilism does not work, that we must throw the dice back into this game in order to find some kind of solution with which to leave, because it is not worth changing something so that everything remains the same. In short, it is up to move tab to unlock this topic; move tab in some way to unlock this topic as in so many other political situations that the Spanish State has pending resolution; move tab to make policy and reach agreements; move tab, in short, to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u61	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform of the organic law is being imposed by the People's Party's permanent failure to comply with a constitutional rule which obliges the renewal of the Council after its term of office has expired. When the PP is in government, the renewal takes place with difficulties, but it takes place; when the PP is in opposition, the renewal is impossible. The more fragmented the right is, the more the People's Party blocks the building of consensus between democratic forces and the more it wants to look like an ultra-right also allergic to democracy. The current Council is exhausted and shows this is how it has turned to politics. Statements by current members of the Council by vetoing candidates or interference with legislative powers have become commonplace. Without having competence to do so, the Council demands in a manner which is disrespectful to the law to intervene in legislative procedures and continues to make appointments, despite the fact that it has a largely exhausted mandate and therefore lacks democratic legitimacy to continue to be carried out. Those who regard in this House the minimum living income of 'paguita' allow councillors who should have resigned long ago to remain in positions that do not correspond to them and to cover the salaries of the highest public servants in all of Spain. The trio of Columbus, ladies and gentlemen, maintains an anti-system behavior; vetoes, exclusions, refusal to build consensus and permanent constitutional fraud, each in its own way, yes. The show given by the People's Party shows that they will continue to kidnap the judiciary until they are guaranteed impunity for the processes - many processes - of corruption that they have ahead: Barcens, Lezo, Punica, etc. Their panic at renewal is directly proportional to how much they have to hide and hide from judges and courts. The People's Party, with five million votes, argues that a political force with more than three million votes cannot participate in constitutional processes and blocks a parliament representing 21 million voters. It decides which political force can legitimately represent the Spanish and the Spanish and which cannot. That is his vision of democracy. United We may not have submitted any proposal for voting to the Council. No one asked us. The vetoes that the People's Party has used as an excuse to continue its seditious attitude of constitutional blockade are vetoes against judges who have the same legitimacy as any other colleague who participates in an elective process. [[rumors]] Probably, the spectacle of vetoes and blockages of constitutional organs by Genoa headquarters will not conclude because we approve this rule, which is already essential for the limitation of powers of an organ that operates with a mandate expired for two and a half years, just as the mandates and powers of Congress, the Government, the National Securities Market Commission or any ministry when it is in office are limited. The term of office of members of the Council is clearly defined in the Constitution, in Article 122, for a period of five years. Having fulfilled this period, it is not democratically possible for the body to properly fulfil its constitutional mandate. It is the People's Party that has brought about the need for this reform that we voted for today in Congress. A Council of the Judiciary with its mandate expired more than two years ago is in a situation of abnormality, in an extraordinary situation, and its legal regime cannot be the same as if its mandate were in force. The Organic Law of the Judiciary designates the Council that exceeds its mandate as outgoing and indicates that it remains exclusively in office. Despite this, unlike the other constitutional bodies, which do have a comprehensive regulation of how they are to operate when they are in office, in the case of the judiciary there was no provision, and from that the People's Party - I insist - has been used in a seditious manner opportunistically. Congress, the seat of popular sovereignty, has an obligation to put an end to this catastrophe. We are not electing judges, let us make it clear to the whole of Spain; we are electing constitutional bodies and it is the duty of any Democrat to approve this reform, which is nothing more than a law to remedy a regulatory vacuum. We are in a right-wing confrontation against democracy and this Congress, which is an expression of the sovereign will born of the ballot box. And if this reform does not unblock the situation, we will - of course - have to discuss others that will have to contemplate the automatic termination of the vowels after the end of their term. But, despite the approval of this reform, the evil is already done. This process of renewal of the Council has been degraded by the People's Party to unbearable extremes, it is essential to heal this process, to commit ourselves to the whole of society to put an end to this spectacle and to start again. An unfinished process has not been sustainable for two legislatures, almost three years, with candidatures that hardly already respond to the current reality of judges and judicial associations; an anomaly that, by the way, hardly fits with the provisions of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure of this House regarding the expiry of the procedures that are not included at the end of each legislature. That is why, United We can propose to start again, a new process of filing candidatures of judges and magistrates with full transparency, to help the People's Party find a moderately decent way out of its dictatorial attitude of blocking and vetoing judges and magistrates who are candidates endorsed by the Council, for the sole reason that they are not serving the orders given from Bárcenas. In addition, we propose a great deal of agreement for the new candidatures to be parity between men and women, for all parties represented in this House to commit themselves to taking the necessary legal and political measures to ensure that the new Council is, for the first time in the history of Spain, parity between men and women; I hope that for the first time it will be presided over by a woman. We demand that the same People's Party ban ministers' talks on public policies of equality...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u63	Your Honor, your time is up, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u64	...to accept this proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, March 11, seventeen years of the greatest attack on the Spaniards and our sovereignty are celebrated. On 11 March, 10 explosives killed nearly 200 victims and more than 2,000 were injured. Some attacks that undoubtedly took place to twist the pulse of history and especially the elections that were to be held three days later, some elections that we already said in his day that should have been postponed to the national shock that led to those attacks. Some attacks that wanted to change this system, that wanted to impose their totalitarian will. Therefore, today I begin my words by reminding those victims and making it very clear that we will fight - today from the opposition and soon from the Government of the nation - for the memory, dignity, justice and truth of all the victims of terrorism, so that the intellectual authors, who financed these attacks, who were their accomplices and concealers and who were their beneficiaries. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the ground]] Therefore, today, March 11, is a good day to remember that the enemies of Spain have been trying for decades to achieve two great goals: one, to double the national sovereignty that belongs to all Spaniards; two, to violate the fundamental freedoms that belong to us all Spaniards. This national sovereignty has been attacked by accepting - both the left and the so-called right - the totalitarian imposition of separatisms, accepting supposed rights of self-determination, infinite concessions of the powers of the State, disarming the State against separatism; and also accepting the imposition of totalitarian globalism, of multiculturalism, which leads us to a migratory invasion, which wants to dissolve the nation States as Spain in an indefinite magma of international control of the Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] And along with the attack on national sovereignty, the attack on fundamental freedoms; freedom of the press and information is attacked by the control and subsidization of the media; freedom of education is attacked by the Celaá laws or by accepting indoctrination in schools by separatism; accepting the attack on the right to work and property by giving these unions of coercion carte blanche, those unions with totalitarians at the door of factories not accepting the right to work against their imposition of strike, or ending the right to property by allowing the illegal occupation of property. [[Applauds]] And also by violating freedom of thought, the freedom of political pluralism by not allowing political forces such as VOX to exercise electoral campaigns in freedom, or by imposing historical memory, the historical lie against the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And these impositions against freedom and this violation of the national sovereignty of the Spaniards have been making them for decades with three means: one, with the violence of bloody terrorism for years, the terrorist gang ETA and other criminal organizations. Two, with street violence, the kale borroka, the CDRs or the excuses of violence to burn the streets for criminal Hasel. And three, with control of the means of independence. Today we are talking precisely about one of those means of control of justice that they are trying to carry out with subjection to politics. What is this bill? One more piece in this strategy to end the freedoms and sovereignty of the Spaniards, something that has been responsible for decades who have been in the Government of Spain accepting that the judges must be under the control of the political parties, accepting the maximum of 'now it's up to me'. And that is what lies behind this reform, because what its promoters of the Government are saying is now it is up to us who, from the General Council of the Judiciary, we decide who is the president of the Supreme Court, of the provincial hearings, of the higher courts of justice, the presidents of the Chamber, who are the judges of the Supreme Court, who are the judges of the Constitutional Court, who is the director of the Judicial School, the director of the Documentation Centre or who is the promoter of disciplinary action. That's what we're talking about, putting your chips on, putting your pawns on. Faced with this, in VOX once again we want to claim the rule of law, the division of powers, the independence of the judiciary, which is the only one that guarantees us against the totalitarian abuses that I have mentioned before, which will guarantee us respect for fundamental freedoms, which will help us to fight from the courts against the totalitarian libertised separatism that confronts the Spaniards. And that's why, you, who are filled with your mouths talking about the blockade of constitutional bodies, we say to you: what we want in VOX is to block the hands of politicians so that they stop putting them into justice, and unlock the hands of judges and magistrates so that they can vote in freedom between judges and magistrates, so that they can vote in freedom and democracy who are to be part of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[applause]] You politicians are the ones who have blocked that judicial body for your bastard interests. Unlock your interests, leave justice in peace and leave the rule of law in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u67	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u68	Mr Vice-President, first of all, we would like to join the memory of the victims of the most serious terrorist attack in Spain on 11 March a few years ago, but whose memory is still present in all our prayers and in all our parliamentary activity. [[Applauds]] With regard to Mr Santiago's words, I would like to say that you show where you come from because, of course, with the tone you use you do not seem to invite much to moderation, dialogue, encounter or the search for consensus. I've been reminded more of that kind of negotiation that comes with a belt gun than anything else, but it's my business anyway. They are going to allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that, being these days when in the city of Valencia those ninots of the faller monuments that occupy our streets begin to plant themselves, separate me from the agenda item and pay a small tribute to those small artisans, to those failed artists, to that pyrotechnic industry that is suffering so much, and do so by showing them the image of a failed little ninot so that those aids that seem to be finally spread can finally reach the sector to survive and make the Falles remain the best party in the world. [[shows the image of a ninot on a tablet]] From here, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus - and thank you, President, for allowing me this digression - on the subject. We vote not in the consideration of this bill. We are presenting an amendment to the whole that we are defending also in this plenary and in which we propose that the judiciary - see what is more strange - should be heard in those rules that affect it, whatever the formula used for its parliamentary processing. We try to explain to the Vice-President, Carmen Calvo, that listening to the voice of the judiciary did not imply any interference between the powers of the State, since popular sovereignty resides only and exclusively in this House in the Senate and, therefore, we try to show you that verbs like listening and obeying are not synonymous. We then try in the Commission to continue to defend our position and today in plenary we will vote no again. I want to say, first of all, that as much as you continue to talk, you forget a basic legal issue, and that is that this is a rule that has a bad legislative quality, as has been shown by the Professional Association of the Judiciary, representative of most of the judges in this country, by saying that it produces blush because of the lack of knowledge of basic legal issues that you do not mention. Those basic legal questions are precisely, ladies and gentlemen, those which are learned in the first instance of law, so make it clear to you that when you pass this proposal of law, you will adopt a rule which would be qualified as a suspension in the first instance of law of any of the Spanish powers. Your ladies and gentlemen are going to adopt an orphaned text of legal reports that endorse its content; a text that is drafted without listening to those who know more about it; a text that binds together the unanimous rejection of the world of law. And it is also a rule, as some fellow Member has rightly said, whose sole purpose has been to blackmail the People's Party in the process of renewing the General Council of the Judiciary; it is a facsimile technique of a government that is beginning to demonstrate too many authoritarian tics, of a government that is beginning to be very used to doing things simply because it has enough majority to be able to do them. You have passed this law because you can and, if the People's Party does not agree to accept the tragals that you impose to pass, you will approve the proposed law that you have in the chamber to amend the qualified majorities that the Organic Law of the Judiciary imposes when it comes to electing the members of the Council, and you will do so because you can and will do so that it will also violate the conclusions of the Consultative Council of Judges of the Council of Europe, the recommendations of Greco, the warnings of the European Association of Magistrates, which is contrary to the work of the Venice Commission, which has been criticized by 90% of the judges, by the Association of Prosecutors, by nine TSJs and by the European Commission on repeated occasions. They will do so simply because they can and, ladies and gentlemen, this reminds me of a phrase that Ortega said, to which I often resort a lot: 'Civilization is, first of all, a will to live together', words that have a lot to do with the words of Miguel deUnamuno, who said: 'You will win because you have excess brute strength; but you will not convince, because convincing means persuading'. And this is what happens when you impose your political ration simply because you can, you win, but you don't convince. And, at every step they take to change, because they can - I insist - the master walls on which our coexistence is based, are taking at least two steps backwards in terms of democratic coexistence; so you feel so comfortable in this polarized and confronted Spain and hence the prevailing manicheism. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has proposed that the members of the Council of Judicial Origin be elected by the judges, we have proposed it, just as we have proposed a pact for justice and you, because you can, you said no; and now we have to choose between what can best suit us as a party or what is best for Spain, and what is best for Spanish democracy is nothing more than to allow the General Council of the Judiciary to be a council made up of people who think in the same way, made in the image and likeness of those who can and do not fit the ideological diversity that the Constitutional Court demands for this constitutional body. That is why we are absolutely clear that we will not let the judiciary fall, that we will not allow the last line of defence of the rule of law to fall because when you simply do things because you can, you force and you are breaking with all the red lines that since the Transition guide the coexistence between Spaniards; lines that went far beyond the parliamentary majorities, however broad they were, to maintain certain consensuses that should never be broken by affecting the peaceful coexistence of the Spaniards. When you cross those red lines you not only corner coexistence, but also break the institutional stability of Spain, the legal security and even the credibility of the Spanish State, forced to compete in that global village that rewards certainties and harshly punishes institutional instability. And speaking of this attitude, I'm afraid you're much closer, because you want and because you can, from the 1936 PSOE than the 1978 PSOE. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u69	Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. When Mr Ortega Smith was speaking, I made the effort to close my eyes and the truth is that I saw the image in black and white all the time; it's a bit like this series of WandaVision, which starts black and ends in color and, let's say, the disposition of this House makes this possible, because at the end of the day you are the same thing. We are here, in the penultimate step for the adoption of a proposal for a law to regulate interinity in the General Council of the Judiciary and, in three months the arguments, the truth, have not changed much; if, as I said, a patatine of black and white in his lordships when they intervene. This law began its course three months ago, on December 15, when it had already held the council for two years of expired term. Three months later, and thanks to its blockade, he follows the council with the expired term, and at this time, among others, five presidents have been appointed, 9 presidents of provincial hearings, 2 of the TSJ, as well as 1 member of the Supreme, 72 appointments in this expired term, in these two years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is inexcusable that, regardless of whether it is renewed or not - let us hope so - the Council has regulated the functions in their entirety - I insist - without prejudice to their renewal, that we hope it will be soon. It is a necessary regulation per se. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, patriotism - as I said in committee - does not go from decibels - Mr Ortega-Smith, who raises his voice so much - does not go from the number of Members, does not go from 'Vote to Brios!' Here all day. In politics patriotism is measured by the usefulness to citizens, and in this you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are very little patriots, that is, are very little useful. Their short political vision makes them block charges and feed the ultra bench that sits to their right. But it is not just this, which is also your vote against the state of alarm, it is your vote against the funds of the European Union, it is your vote against the social laws - for example, we will see next week the law of euthanasia again - but what is more serious is your complicit silence before VOX. After yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they only have VOX left, and they seem to have to ask permission to do politics. You settle for the crumbs VOX gives you in politics. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Roosevelt once said that the only thing to be afraid of is fear itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're set up in fear of VOX. They give them space, they give them the agenda, they see them grow and they are told they will soon be replaced by them. The reasons for the adoption of this proposal for a law are clear. We have discussed this matter at length in committee here three times, this need and the need for Parliament to do its work and legislation. It is our sovereignty, it comes from the votes of the citizens, from that citizenship which has placed here all the Members of Parliament, your ladies and gentlemen, all of us. I would also like to say to the speakers who have spoken and who, without being fully in favour of this proposal, have shared it and are going to approve it, who thank them for their high point of view, because in politics the points of agreement are as important or more than the positions themselves, also ours, especially ours. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, your blocking position is unwarranted, but I think that you already know, it does not hold. But I will tell you one thing: There are rules, pacts, actions that make a country go smoothly at different historical times, especially in changes of majority or government. In other words, respect for the victory of the winner and his right to form Government, to give legitimacy to that Government, respect and international non-interference, but also, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to contribute to the normal and peaceful transit of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, greatness is also measured in the opposition, and you have a permanent revalidation to prove to this House that it does not move your grudges. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do you hear VOX? It's you 15 years ago. We've rehearsed conspiracy theories about the 11-M bombing. It's you 15 years ago. They remind me of Acebes, Aznar. We have heard that kind of ignominy again in this House. It's you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, fifteen years ago. That's why I'm telling you please don't settle for not disturbing VOX when it comes to exposing your arguments and ideas, go further, because I hope there's more to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a necessary and timely law, a law that comes to an end to a situation that cannot be sustained much longer, but it is true that this law does not end the problem. The problem will come to an end when you really are re-thinking and feeling like negotiating the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. That's why I'm asking you to think about the future. Today you are already late, once again you are late, but I tell you that in this law, as in others, we will also continue without you. It is sad that we continue to make progress without the People's Party agreeing. Needless to say, ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to vote in favour of this initiative, which we believe is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u72	We continue with the point relating to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on urgent measures for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence from Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March. In turn, I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by reminding the four victims who have been killed in what we have been doing for the year; four lives taken away by the mere fact of being women. We cannot fail to remember it, we cannot fail to insist that its cause is ours. In addition, I want to say to all those women who are currently living macho violence that they are not alone. You're not alone. Today we are addressing an initiative that, as we are already advancing them, we will support. We also believe that the amendments that have been tabled are appropriate. The reference to the Istanbul Convention guaranteeing the implementation of non-discriminatory measures, the inclusion of measures and services having criteria of inclusiveness and accessibility or taking into account the provision of services and the limitations of victims, among others, are the issues that incorporate the amendments that are being brought to this House today. Therefore, I insist that our vote will be favourable, because Citizens will always support the proposals that promote the defense of victims of macho violence, because we will always stand by the victims of macho violence and will find us in front of all those who want to deny this specific form of violence. With regard to gender-based violence, the victims have experienced a real calvary during these pandemic moments. Calls to 016 have increased by 40%. Moreover, the worst has happened to them, that is to be in their homes locked up living with their aggressors. If we put ourselves a little on the victim's skin, imagine being locked up with that person you're afraid of, with that person who has you, with that person who doesn't let you grow either personally or in any way or in any way. They have therefore been seen at a crossroads that I believe has been the worst in this pandemic. Therefore, since March, we considered the importance of declaring essential services to those who care for victims of gender-based violence, giving priority to care and protection and providing all the necessary social and housing resources at the time of confinement. They are services that Citizens have already made clear in our work that have to be guaranteed not only at the time of confinement, but as long as the situation of restriction and pandemic in which we still find ourselves lasts. In addition, in Citizens we always take into account the situation of women in positions of greater vulnerability. Therefore, one of the amendments incorporated in this work was in line to take into account cases of sexist violence in which women can be seen in situations of poverty, migration, disability, gypsy women, etc. We must not forget those women who, in the face of macho violence, can face greater problems in dealing with it. Action in male-based violence must also cover a number of areas: prevention and awareness-raising; and there must be a greater guarantee of protection for victims. I share with you my concern - moreover, I remember my moments of exercise of the profession of lawyer - about what happens with the application of protection orders. How should we support and protect women who are so afraid that they do not even report? What do we have to do with those women who, in their own environment, find it more difficult to face a situation of macho violence? Alongside this, new forms of macho violence against many of our young people arise. What to do with this macho violence that is exercised through social networks and the internet? These are issues that we have to address with great seriousness, with great coherence and with effective answers, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is vital to work consistently in this area. A few weeks ago, we gave a lesson to the VOX Parliamentary Group in this House when we all got up to face these denialist speeches in a clear way. In fact, citizens took a very firm step to address one of the most important issues, namely the implementation and implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence. My surprise has been that the only objective of the Socialist Party in this bill is to implement the measures that are not yet being implemented. We haven't had them by our side, and it seems incomprehensible to me. It is a question that should not be the heritage of anyone, and in our speeches it has become very clear. Why didn't they support us? Is it because it presents Citizens, as we have sometimes seen in the General Budgets of the State? Is it because the measures of the State Pact against Macho Violence are not being implemented? It seems incomprehensible to me, ladies and gentlemen. In our project, we proposed that minors living with them should be considered victims, so that they could be protected; the guarantee of immediate and safe accommodation for all women who wanted to leave their homes; and the review of procedural guarantees in the criminal field so that the victim could intervene at any time. What is the problem with this implementation of measures? I'm still surprised. I would like to conclude by stressing the importance of implementing the State Pact against Gender Violence. It is important to implement it as effectively as possible. In this matter we must be united, because we must overcome this social scourge. If we don't do it from unity, it will be impossible; there is no other way. The victims deserve an effective response from this House. Our parliamentary group will always find us on the pro-active side, on the side of the agreement, on the side of unity and to improve the policies that go in this line of work. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Machist violence. Language is important, because it creates a suitable context that drives measures aimed at combating macho violence - I say it again, macho violence -. For this reason, just as the term domestic violence was obsolete to give way to the discussion of gender-based violence, it is time for this concept to be left behind to address the problem treated as sexist violence. That is, such violence is not exercised by the different genders that exist, but is given from man to woman, male violence. Therefore, we are faced with a question of machismo because the man considers that he has full right and full possession over the woman, machista violence. It is very disquieting that our amendment to Article 1 has not been accepted to change the entire wording from gender-based violence to sexist violence. We say again the same thing our colleague Elisenda Pérez said in the Senate: Not all the essential issues are being addressed. We want to make it clear from the Republican Group that this bill we understand as absolutely necessary, essential, urgent, without any doubt, because the situation that the pandemic has caused in the macho violence is extremely worrying, and more so when we hear hate speech to women from the fascist bench of this Congress, who deny the existence of the macho violence that kills every day. There is a very old phrase that says the following: what is not written specifically does not exist. We therefore believe from the Republican Group that it is absolutely essential to open the debate on trans people. The macho violence is exercised against women by the patriarchal system that we still suffer and which subordinates and oppresses us. Therefore, the law must aim to protect all women and that no possible victim of male violence remains, a violence that we women receive from men only because they are read as women, beyond what a DNI or the bubbles of transphobia say. We strongly and irrefutablely bet on the protection of all women against any kind of violence, regardless of the sex or gender assigned to us. Again we face the refusal of the classic Spanish bipartisanism not to face the realities of the citizenship they claim to represent. Again, the PP and PSOE come together not to open pending debates, debates absolutely necessary to develop all welfare states. It's very sad, ladies and gentlemen, but it's not new. This government is able to shake hands with those who accuse them of bringing an entire state to ruin and being a negligent government, but why are they holding hands with those who say this? To block the fundamental rights of a huge part of the population, trans people. To fellow Members of Unity We can tell you the following: I know that for you trans collectives are an absolutely important political movement, but it is imperative that we remember every day, always, that thousands of people go their lives and they go their dignity in it. A collective, like the trans collective, that sees that never - I repeat, never - has been specifically legislated for them, they and they, get tired of waiting and raise their voice and even make hunger strike - are here, you go to the square of the Courts, where you are making hunger strike - simply by the right to be. You're not listening to them, ladies and gentlemen. You hide behind your own fears to understand that the world changes and people change, that we all, all and everyone changes. We advocate that all legislative initiatives be inclusive and include all realities. This includes the reality of trans people, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very dangerous that one of the criteria for receiving public aid related to male-based violence should go hand-in-hand with the gender spectrum. It is important to make reparations, to ask for forgiveness, to grant rights; and, therefore, we register a PNL of the Trans Platform, which, by the way, is also making hunger strike by the trans law, and the institutions must do justice. It's the only way forward. The fear felt by the traditional left of this Spanish state promulgates the exclusion of the trans collective; there are thousands of people, ladies and gentlemen, who absolutely want to have the right to be; it is a human right to be. It must be legislated for the whole of society, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, sexist violence against trans people should also be addressed and included in the present bill. Bring to the Congress of Deputies the trans law; it is urgent, it is an absolutely necessary law. We have society on hunger strike; we have a majority in this Chamber to pass a trans law. Bring the trans law now; it is time to address the discrimination of this collective, now more than ever, ladies and gentlemen. Proof of that is that the measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u76	Your Honor, your time is up, please. Let's be strict with the times. Thank you very much. Your time's up. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u77	Hello, very good morning to everyone, to everyone, as my companion Mary used to say. It is exciting for me to be able to speak from this rostrum in the week of 8 March, and more in an initiative that deals precisely with violence against women. Therefore, for the date, but also for the subject to be addressed, I want to start with a reflection. And in that reflection I mean very loudly that feminism is the home of all women. I want to tell all women, feminism is their home. But, in particular, I would like to address these words to the most precarious women, to whom they see their work invisible, underpaid, day after day; also to the migrant women, to whom they are in irregular situations and suffer all kinds of violence; also economic violence and institutional violence. To women who care from anonymity, without recognition, we sustain our lives, and it is time for someone to sustain yours; to the victims of macho violence, to whom this royal decree is addressed, since those that the far right pretends to deny their reality day after day. A few days ago, we lived here one of the most exciting moments, at least for me, in all my political experience, and it was when this whole Chamber, except for the MPs and MPs who denied women's pain, stood up to applaud the names of the 1081 women killed since 2003 for macho violence in our country. I wanted to ask that we continue with this union against macho violence, that we do justice to the memory of murdered women and that the slogan 'None less' is above political rivalries. Feminism, as Mary said, is also the home of trans women, women who have been completely invisible by the legislation they are now demanding and who unfortunately are seeing these days as being the target of the cruelest, most violent and cruelest transphobia. Feminism is also the home of trans women. And finally, and being very aware that I speak from the privilege, I would mean that feminism is also the home of all the women that we have felt out of place sometimes in public policy, those who have suffered from impostor syndrome every time we go up these stairs. [[The lady]] And I say that I speak from the privilege, because I am very aware that Congress remains closed for many women, because there are issues of class, race, functional diversity, gender identity that continue to close the doors of this house to many women, and until they can enter, this house, the Congress of Deputies will not be the home of all. [[applause]] And in its desire not to leave anyone behind, not to leave any of these women behind, this Government, with the Ministry of Equality at the head, launched a contingency plan and a royal decree-law, whose amendments we discussed today, aimed at protecting women victims of sexist violence from an unprecedented situation, from the pandemic, a reaction that was rapid, that was effective and that once again made us one of the countries concerned in the fight for gender equality and against sexist violence. It has been said before, the crisis of COVID-19 has had very serious consequences for women, especially for women who are victims of gender-based violence, because not only did detention with their aggressor increase these violence and risk situations, but the job insecurity resulting from the economic crisis also increases the risk situation for sexist violence, and this is also important for us to say. In fact, the different studies place the increase in gender-based violence during the pandemic between 20 and 30 per cent. This bill has been a fundamental weapon in the fight against macho violence and here we should all have been united and we feel that the PP was abstaining at the time. From our parliamentary group we will continue to work for unity on an issue where we believe that there are no fissures or ambiguities. These amendments, which come from the Senate and which we are going to support, improve the text especially on cross-cutting issues. We welcome the specific inclusion of things in the field of rural women or, for example, functional diversity. Rita Segato, a feminist thinker, fighter and referent says that gender violence is the first school of violence, in fact the incubator calls it, because it has to do with the mandates of masculinity and because gender violence is intimately linked with all the violence that affects our society. That is why I want to say that feminism, as I said, is the home of all women, but I also dare to say that it is the home of all society; I often think that feminism is the home, for example, of my son, and less evil, because I hope and wish that he, too, as a man, will be able to contribute to a better society for all women. I want to end now, but I want to do so in this week of the 8M, but also in the week in which one year of the beginning of the confinement is celebrated, quoting one of those anonymous women whom I referred to earlier, one of those women dedicated to care, a precarious woman, an invisible woman, and to whom it is time for us to listen and give from this house, which should be that of all, the rights they deserve. Some of the voices of these women are found in this book for me of trembling reading and essential reading also called Caregivers, and I want to read specifically the words of Judith, a Bolivian woman who arrived in Barcelona 1996, says: I have always fought against ill-treatment because of what I have suffered, I have always wanted to have equality in working conditions; I want equality for all, to be treated with dignity. I believe that to me that is feminism, equality. From here, from this house, we must legislate for it. Long live the feminist struggle! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u78	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to infect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u79	With the venom. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Esquerra, who has spoken about the hate speech against the women of the fascist bench, that the only hate speech is hers against VOX. That's why they attack us and throw stones at us. [[Applauds]] After the loud spectacle of his applause a few days ago applauding the list of tragically murdered women by white heterosexual men, after the show of self-complacement in which they applauded their own failure because every dead woman is a failure of their law, after seeing the progress of consensus portrayed, I wanted to claim the names of the other victims, of men, children and homosexuals, but it is not going to be possible. You know why? Because those names do not count, do not appear and there are no figures of their deaths because you do not want them to know, because, as you say, what is not named does not exist and you want those victims not to exist for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] So I can only give some cold figures based on the latest news from the last few years, but these figures are worth a tribute. Since 2013, 138 children have been killed for domestic violence and 93 men have been killed by their partners. God has in his glory them and all the murdered women. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, why don't you talk about this? Why don't you give us the numbers? Why don't you dedicate a minute of silence to all these victims? Why do they only talk about violence against women? Why? A few days ago we were in this very rostrum giving us lessons in equal treatment. What equality? Ladies and gentlemen, we have been lied to, but equality is not the only issue on which we have been lied to, you lie to us when you say that women care because when the assaulted woman is a deputy of VOX, they shut up; when the assaulted woman is the girlfriend of a civilian guard in Alsasua, they shut up; when the assaulted woman is raped by a Moroccan, they shut up; when the assaulted woman is a policeman beaten by the terrorist mobs that you animate, they shut up, and because when women are not yours, it is not violence, it is ketchup. [[Applauds]] You lie when you talk about getting zero violence because it's an impossible goal, you bleed to Spanish taxes for an unrealizable goal. Of course it would be precious a world in which there would be no violence, in which we could eat without weight and in which Minister Maria Jesús Montero knew what an ocean is, it would be wonderful, but it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You lie when you deny false allegations. Are we talking about JuanJosé López Aguilar? Are we talking about Free Childhood? Are we talking about Fernando Valdés? Are we talking about Ignacio Caraballo? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, are we talking about Mr. Calvente? No, right? Well, that's it. [[Applauds]] You lie when you accuse VOX of negationist, sexist and accomplice of the aggressors. In VOX we condemn all kinds of violence against women, men and children and respect so much a woman that we reject her paternalism, because we do not want to be a knight walker who rescues the damsel in trouble, we want women to be Joan of Arc of the 21st century. [[Applauds]] You lie with the figures, you lie with the data, you lie with the violence, you lie with the VOX, you lie with the doctor, but VOX is here to tell the truth and to remind you that the Emperor is naked, to remind you that violence has no sex and to remind all those victims that you have forgotten. [[laughs]] Your laws against gender-based violence, that of 2004 and the one we are dealing with today, do not know who you intend to protect because you do not know what a woman is. These laws violate the Constitution, violate the Istanbul Convention, violate fundamental rights, collect and victimize women, criminalize men, do not reduce the number of victims, encourage false complaints and confront men and women to destroy the family. [[Applauds]] And what does VOX want? VOX wants the Constitution: equality before the law, presumption of innocence, hardening of penalties, closing of its bars and protection for all victims. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, your law does not represent citizens; it only represents your pathological hatred of men and your perverse use of the drama of abused women. That is why I appeal today to Spanish society to demand that when it votes and elects its rulers and politicians, it demand the defense of all women and not just that of feminist women, the defense of women excluded by feminism, mothers, pregnant women, the defense of women attacked by Spaniards and immigrants you bring us, the defense of the women we speak of and the defense of the women who are mothers, wives, daughters and sisters of innocent men who are victims of their law. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Tolkien said that beautiful words often hide an infamous heart, and in this case it is true. You pervert and falsify flags with beautiful words - women, equality, rights - but those flags cease to be so to become ideological rags, among which we can see the reality, which is your eagerness for power, your totalitarianism and absolute contempt for the life of the Spaniards, quite the opposite of the group I have the honour to represent today. [[applause]] Flags for us are neither excuses nor alibis to hide unkind interests; they are points of light that point to us the way to good and service to all Spaniards, especially those who suffer violence, be they men, children or women, because for VOX all lives matter. Ladies and gentlemen, less Irenes Montero and more Joans of Arc. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Fanjul. Mrs ÁLVAREZ FANJUL: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group supported the report of the presentation on this bill, as several of our amendments were admitted which clearly improve a text that had become obsolete by being limited only to the period of the first state of alarm, you know, that which is extended every fifteen days so that Mr Sánchez can get rid of parliamentary control of all the Members present here. Among the improvements introduced by the People's Group, supported by most groups, highlights the amendment that sought to ensure that the competent administrations guaranteed comprehensive protection, care and intervention to victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation that had been detected during the confinement and that the original text had forgotten. Surveillance will be strengthened through the State Security Forces and Corpses in places where such violence is carried out, alternative accommodation, health and social assistance will be provided to victims who have contracted COVID. It also highlights the improvement in the protection of rural women and women with disabilities, although they did not accept improvements in the inclusion and accessibility we had proposed in this House. However, the People's Group in the Senate has managed to include it, as well as those concerning the provision by the competent administrations of comprehensive social assistance for the duration of the measures resulting from the health emergency caused by COVID even after the state of alarm has passed. On the other hand, thanks also to the People's Group, the working conditions of women victims of gender-based violence who have been included in some of the modalities of ERTEs were improved in the text. However, they were not ambitious and were not ahead of any other type of gender-based violence, which is on the rise. According to the new report '(In)securas online: experiences of girls, adolescents and young people around online harassment in Spain', Spanish girls and young women are also very exposed to online harassment. I'll give you a piece of information, 88. They recognize that they or other girls in their environment have faced more than one form of harassment. For this and other reasons, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled a number of amendments. First, measures to combat online and cyber-violence, which were rejected. By the way, saving a SIM to protect a girl doesn't count on how to fight cyberbullying, it takes real and effective measures. Secondly, accessibility to resources, since a housing resource if not accessible is not a resource on equal terms for all women. Thirdly, an amendment to provide funds, via the State Pact, to small administrations, which have to use resources to fight the pandemic to increase their support staff for victims or to improve their centres. But, as I was saying, they didn't accept each other. In the process of the Senate we resubmitted virtually all the amendments that had not been accepted. Several of them, along with those of other parliamentary groups, have been accepted, mainly all those related to improving the care and protection of persons with disabilities, with the approach of inclusion and accessibility, seeking universal accessibility and making reasonable adjustments as necessary in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For these reasons, we can vote in favour of the amendments incorporated in the Senate, although I have already announced to you that we will continue to demand all the amendments that we have tabled and that have been rejected, as well as the definitive implementation of the two hundred and ninety measures of the State Pact against Gender Violence because, although the Ministry of Equality and its senior officials do not finish believing it, it is the best tool to end this scourge. Before concluding, I wanted to use this debate to remind the House and all the Spaniards who might be listening to us. It makes me sad to see how they work when they rule. You, ladies and gentlemen on the left, care more about a banner, a photo or a viral hashtag than about working. Mrs. Montero has not brought forward a single law. This decree will be the first and since it was formed have been more pending to square the organizational structure and high offices of his ministry - babysitter in charge of the public era including - than to work. You put, in your own way, gender-based violence at the centre of the debate and I now ask you to put the work at the centre of your agendas. [[Applauds]] The State Pact Monitoring and Evaluation Commission is, even if it appears to be a lie, a quimera. We do not follow or evaluate the state pact because there is no way they can summon it. Three meetings have been held since its constitution, a laughable and regrettable figure. Call on the Commission and celebrate the appearances, please, that we have asked you, to be able to be before the end of the legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u82	Thank you very much, President. A meaningful and excited memory for the 1083 murdered women, victims of criminal machismo. [[Applauds]] I'm going to talk about them today. I would like to begin by thanking the groups for their work and contributions to this bill; contributions that in the vast majority of cases have been positive. The decree from which this bill was issued was a quick and effective hand of the Government to the thousands of women who then suffered strict confinement alongside their abuser. His panic was increased, logically, from night to morning and we couldn't and didn't want to be quiet and expectant. The situation was and is very serious, it required agile solutions, which include this bill. The time has passed and we continue in the pandemic, the confinement in the homes has remained behind, but we are still in a state of alarm, with many restrictions on mobility still in place. Both the World Health Organization and the United Nations issued a warning last year in the face of evidence of the increase in violence against women worldwide: control violence, psychological violence, which in many cases also becomes physical violence, while the abuser loses sight of the woman who previously controlled the 24 hours of the day. Not in vain, violence - we know - is a sustenance of inequality and is necessary for its survival. That is why this bill is so important, because it is a high message, a clear message for women and also for children who suffer from abuse in the midst of this terrible pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, denying the evidence that the figures reveal to us is closing our eyes to the harsh reality that thousands of women live; women like the 78 000 who in 2020 called 016, 10 300 more than in 2019. In this country, one in two women has experienced some episode of macho violence throughout their lives. There have been 1083 women killed in this country since 2003 to this day. We read their names two weeks ago right here, names to which unfortunately today we have to add Mari Carmen, Torrejón de Ardoz, and those of Mari Cruz and his daughter Isabel in El Molar. [[Applauds]] There have been 38 murders of minors since 2013 at the hands of couples or ex-partners of their mothers; many were also their parents; 305 were orphaned and orphaned. But the figures don't matter, neither do people for the right-wing negationist. We know that they do not understand figures or statistics, nor do they understand realities. They do not understand or want to understand, lest the truth destroy them, it destroys the discourse with which they give their ears to sexism. [[Applauds]] But even worse is that violence destroys women's lives, so in my parliamentary group, in the Socialist Group, we are with them and we are working to help them. That is why we in my group and in the Government are providing solutions. We have always done so since the 2004 Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence to the State Pact to which we - we have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP - have dragged them. And look, of the solidity of the agenda of policies to prevent and combat violence in Spain, of the pioneering role of the comprehensive law we do not speak only of ourselves, for example the Report of the Grevio of evolution of Spain in compliance with the Istanbul Convention. The amendments that we are debating today and that we will vote on in the affirmative - as I have already said - are in addition to the text that we adopted in the Congressional Equality Commission. We agree that some aspects relating to the protection and assistance of victims in need of a special approach may go beyond the state of alarm. We strengthen the commitment of this bill to the protection and assistance of trafficked women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We are also convinced that this should be the legislature of the abolition of prostitution. [[Applauds]] And we do not forget the special difficulties of vulnerable groups, women who add to their status as victims of gender-based violence or some others who increase the risk. It was picked up in the Congressional presentation by a transactional and now others are added that walk in the same direction, fundamentally amendments of inclusion and accessibility; we accept them, although we sincerely believe that they are redundant. I reiterate the commitment to all victims of macho violence, the commitment to their protection, their assistance, to prevention, awareness-raising, education, which is so important and which is carried out, of course, in many ways: through regulated education, but also through the socialization exercised by the media, or with murals such as those which these days have been vandalized in Madrid, Getafe and other municipalities; murals everywhere that invite the promotion of equality between women and men, murals that you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, point out and that then others erase and sabotage, by the way. [[shows two photographs]] [[Applauds]] What is happening to date in Madrid has no name, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, and we will soon remedy it. The thing about deleting murals, the thing about vetoing the minister so that she doesn't indoctrinate, the thing about parental pine in Madrid, in Andalusia, in Murcia, that's not feminism, precisely. [[a Member of Parliament: Well!]] But don't be mistaken, because feminism is not erased with insults, nor with negationism, nor with pins, nor with fat brush, and you know what? That we are Frida Kahlo, that we are Rosa Parks, that we are Carme Chacon; we are all the women you want to erase. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guinart. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u84	We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. It corresponds to case numbers 120/000018 of the XII Legislature and 120/000005 of the XIII Legislature. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been tabled to this proposal, and for the defence of the amendment tabled, Mr Eritja Ciuró has the floor by the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u85	Thank you very much, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure for our group to be able to discuss initiatives that have been transferred directly to Congress by organised civil society. They deserve all our respect, but they also deserve guarantees that their proposal will not fall into a broken bag, as is usually the case. This popular legislative initiative precisely allows us to bring to debate a central issue to understand and address the challenges facing our health systems, and it is the debate on the scarcity of human and material resources that they suffer and, therefore, we suffer all citizens who are users at one time or another of these systems. We fully agree with the writing of this initiative. In fact, we share the dual need to drive mechanisms to ensure adequate care for the patient, as well as decent conditions for the exercise of the health profession. In this sense, the priority today should be the fight against job insecurity in the health field and the strengthening and consolidation of the current staffing levels - we fully agree - two factors which not only affect the dignity of the healthcare professional but also affect the quality of the same service, so they end up affecting society as a whole. We are all aware that cuts have profoundly affected public health services despite the immeasurable efforts and admirable vocation of health personnel, who have often suffered structural deficits such as chronic underfunding of public health services, as they have shown during this pandemic. Our commitment to the principles and diagnoses of the promoters is therefore clear. However, in our view, this initiative raises many doubts, particularly in the field of its implementation. First of all, we believe that it is not only important to talk about the nurse-patient ratio, but also that the specialized training of nurses, who can open the fork of the ratio without improving the quality of care, is very important. We should also take into account, for example, the role of the nursing assistant figure, which is not contemplated in other health models in our environment when calculating the ratio. The ratios actually matter, but they cannot be disconnected either from the context; they are not the same care needs in an environment of high social complexity than in an area with lower rates of chronicity or 'pluripathologies. Nor should we lose sight of the fact that in the coming years the social structure will be different; the child population will decrease due to the reduction of births and the elderly population will increase thanks to the increase in life expectancy. This scenario shows that the health system will have to cope with a significant increase in chronicity. We cannot, therefore, speak only of ratio, but must also focus on the specific care and needs of each person, community and disease. All this obliges and will force us to rethink the care models of our health system with the aim of focusing on comprehensively responding to people's health needs. These new models require new professional profiles and, above all, require the guarantee that we will equip ourselves with the appropriate number of staff promoting territorial equity. On the other hand, there are the competition issues. The autonomous communities have competence in health and, therefore, it may have been more efficient to present the proposal in the autonomous parliaments rather than at the state level, which in health matters should have limited its action only to coordination. We clearly find it centralizing to propose a change which affects the scope of the recruitment of professionals from the various health services in the autonomous communities without having the governments and parliaments of those territories. In any case, and despite all this, we will certainly have time to discuss these issues in the papers and in the amendments that will be presented by all the groups and which we too have tabled. In any case, what really worries us - and hence the decision to present this amendment as a whole - is that this proposal is not accompanied by a financing mechanism for its development. It is not a simple amendment; it is a structural red line that will define whether this proposal is going forward or not, and that is why we have wanted to draw attention to this. It is an issue that is eluded and that for our group is fundamental; in fact, our amendment to the whole retains the original wording, since we believe that it should be discussed in a paper, but it includes the need to guarantee funding; in this way, and before we begin to debate, we want to see to what extent you are all committed, those who voted in favour of taking into consideration the proposal for a law, with its content, with the effective fulfilment of ratios as demanding as those that pose to us. We must remember that, of those present, nothing more and nothing less than 312 voted in favour of the consideration, and the question is: did they do so because they consider, as we do, that health care is a basic right and are therefore prepared to take all the necessary measures so that the competent administrations, and among them the autonomous communities, can assume the obligations imposed on them by this law, or did they simply do so to get along with the proponents of this popular legislative initiative? In other words, without a clear guarantee of funding - and this is not the first time that our group has said so - this reform is going to be unworkable, so clear. If this amendment succeeds, we will understand that there is a real will to bring the initiative to fruition. Public health suffers from a chronic shortage of resources which causes current health expenditure to be permanently above budget forecasts. This generates a pattern of repeated deficit, particularly acute in those autonomous communities whose fiscal balance suffers from a greater imbalance, and this is not a problem that affects Catalonia alone, but affects the majority of the autonomous communities. This deficit is closely linked to the lapse of the autonomous funding model that successive governments refuse to reform. This implies that Catalonia has lower resources for investment in per capita health than the state average and far from the average investment of our European neighbours. Despite this, and thanks to the work of the Diàleg Professional Forum promoted by the Department of Health in order to identify the needs of the professionals of our health system, it has been possible to strengthen our professional staff and has been done by defining and deploying policies of professional planning and management that respond to the health needs of the population and the new challenges presented by society in the future: aging, chronicity or integration of care, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in nursing places in Catalonia is the highest in the whole state and achieves the historical peak of almost 300 places in one year. The offer of specialized health training approved by the health department for the call of the state exam next year exceeds the historical peaks achieved and is expected to reach in 2021 until 1630 places of 54 different specialties. All this represents a 13% increase over the last call and maintains the upward trend over the last five years. And this despite - we insist - the economic impact of the pandemic and the narrow financial margin that the autonomous community has. To conclude, we agree that it is necessary to strengthen the health system as one of the main pillars of the welfare state, that consolidating and strengthening the staff of health workers, in this case nurses, is a priority - we have been talking about it in different scenarios and in different frameworks - that health cuts are not the solution of anything, as we have been able to experience in our own skin these months precisely, and that it is urgent to reverse the lack of investment in health and to ensure greater funding for initiatives such as those we are discussing today. Even as a historical claim, the health crisis of COVID-19 has highlighted the deficits of our health systems. The pandemic has taught us that the health system is the first and most important safety net and social guarantee that we can give ourselves as a society to face the challenges of a truly uncertain future. In fact, we believe that this law is an opportunity to put forward an in-depth reform of the Public Health System, but unfortunately we have a lot of experience in proposals that, despite goodwill, do not finally have the necessary funding and end up being wet paper or mere declarations of intent. The most significant example would be the Dependency Act, we have been repeating it day and day as well, and we have several examples of how any proposal of these has really not come to an end. Our group is already tired of calling for improvements in funding to the autonomous communities, which are ultimately the only ones that have the capacity to directly and decisively influence such sensitive areas as health, social services and education. Sorry, the only ones are not, there are also local administrations, the most forgotten and at the same time the closest to the citizen. This is called the principle of subsidiarity and they would do well to take note of it. The principle of subsidiarity in health is fundamental, especially when the management of competences is completely out of step. It will be of no use to finance and strengthen bodies and administrations that have no real competencies in health management if what we want is to improve our health system and, above all, to guarantee quality services to our fellow citizens. We are tired of empty statements and, at the same time, of opacity in the decisions that are being made from the State, from the Executive. Finally, this amendment to the whole is intended to take the temperature at a real will or not to carry out a proposal of this kind, a proposal which involves a partial reform of the health system and which therefore requires adequate funding, a great deal of consensus and, above all, a great deal of affection. In any case, I would ask you to take this amendment as a whole into consideration, bearing in mind that it is simply to include a point such as the correct financing of a project as vast and as important as this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment to the law proposed by the Republican Group completely derails the popular initiative on nursing ratios to ensure the safety of patients that the Congressional Plenary endorsed last December 15th, with my vote as a surplus nurse and an exercising nurse's spouse. The alternative text of the Republican Parliamentary Group is far removed from the legislative objectives that were endorsed by 660,000 signatures and by a long journey that, in the opinion of Forum, should culminate in the General Courts with the greatest agility possible, more if it is possible after this endless pandemic that has made very evident the deficiencies of nursing professionals that we have in Spain. In this sense, as I stressed in the debate in which it was taken into consideration with abundant parliamentary support - as the spokesman of the Republican Parliamentary Group has recalled - the professional nursing deficiencies that we have in Spain have been highlighted, and it should be stressed once again that Spain is located in the queue in the supply of nurses. It should also be stressed that the law will place Spain as a pioneer country in the world to have in its normative framework a safe and adequate ratio of patients for each nursing professional. Finally, I believe that in the background of this amendment to the whole of the Republican Parliamentary Group there is, on the one hand, the fear of the possible collapse of the respective autonomous competition frameworks and, on the other hand, as Mr Eritja has insisted in his speech, the concern about the financing of the deployment of nurses that will have to be affected by the entry into force of this law. It is an opportune moment to remind the Government that the reform of autonomous financing, which is seven years late, is indeed urgently needed, and that it is crucial for essential public services to have the resources to provide health care and, in the present case, to provide adequate nursing personnel to the whole of Spain without territorial privileges or distinctions. I shall vote against the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u89	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. New Canarias always considers popular legislative initiatives of great value because they are the product of a significant reinforcement by civil society that we believe must always be taken into account, within the reasonable and positive. In this case, it is a proposal for a law on nursing ratios to ensure the safety of patients. It is clear that this is a statement of intent. It is clearly designed to draw attention to one of the serious problems of the shortcomings that affect and the setback that the Spanish health system has experienced in recent decades. It's true. It is also true that we believe that declarations of intent, especially in this House and in a matter which - as you know - is transferred to the autonomous communities, have a greater value of awareness and of drawing attention than of anything else. For that reason, we are going to support this bill, because it seems to us to have its usefulness. It is clear that the public health system in Spain has experienced a very significant setback in recent decades. Since the creation of the National Health System until now, the setback has been evident; a setback that is underpinned by chronic over-financing that the OECD has repeatedly portrayed and has not improved. The pandemic has shown that this has been a serious mistake that we are now paying for. And, of course, in terms of personnel, human resources in general, this setback has also been ratified by the OECD, but in the case of doctors the setback is smaller than that of nursing. The OECD average is 8.2 nursing points per thousand inhabitants and that of Spain is 5.9 - it occupies the 20th position of the European Union -. Some 190,000 more nurses will be needed in 2023. This is therefore a matter that needs to be addressed; action must be taken on the set of inefficiencies that affect the public health system and prevent its development. This is true. Another issue that is essential to take into account is the persistent scourge of temporaryity and precarious employment, which affects 90% of nursing staff in this case. This is monstrosity and attacks the functioning of any system, also against the public health system, as it is natural, because it does not cease to be a system that works with a set of interrelated elements, including that of the staff, which is a fundamental leg. It is not possible to develop a sustainable project within a complex system, such as the health system or any other system, with a staff working in these conditions. It is clear that this bill is not going to solve the problems and it is clear that this issue must be dealt with in depth by all the autonomous communities, although it is also true that this effort must be rewarded and it is a wake-up call for us to discuss this kind of thing. I hope it's not the last time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u91	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr Eritja, our parliamentary group will vote against, as I have put it to you in private, the amendment to the whole of your group that you have tabled, for the same reasons that we voted against taking into consideration the bill put forward by popular legislative initiative. What you have done has basically been to amend an additional provision. The Basque Group believes that voting in favour of its initiative, even though it includes such a modification in relation to funding, would be as much as supporting the whole of the bill that was presented at the time. When we discussed the consideration, we highlighted two issues in our position-making that we also want to highlight today. The initiative starts from the position of a union that does its job, defends its collective, and is a praiseworthy job. But it is up to the parliamentary groups and the Members who are here to put things within their competence and to establish coherence in the public policies that we are promoting from here. As I was saying, today we are going to vote against it for the same reasons we did at the time, and let me refer you to the reading of the Journal of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies, to Bulletin No. 69, dated December 15, 2020, so that you can read what I will now briefly remind you of. Our group voted against the proposal for a law and will vote against the amendment to the whole because it does not respect the jurisdictional distribution at all in the matter contained in the Constitution by reserving various organs of the State - the Parliament, the Government and the so-called Interterritorial Commission of Nursing Ratios - functions and competences of the Autonomous Communities and, moreover, in the case of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, also of the historical territories, because it is not only addressing health matters, but also fully entering the social area. In particular, the timely establishment of staff ratios in the units and services is an issue that must be decided by the bodies responsible for the management of those services, of course - as we said in our first intervention - always taking into account scientific and material aspects and criteria that require proximity and immediacy. The function and the establishment of the ratios envisaged in the proposal for a law, and now also in its amendment to the whole, cannot in any way be included in the concept of the general basis of health, so its attribution to the various institutions of the State, both legislative and executive - Parliament, Government and the commission we mentioned above - produces a notorious and illegitimate invasion in the area of autonomous competence in health matters. Moreover, the purported extension of the content of this proposed law, and also of its amendment to the whole, to the socio-health sphere, is even a higher degree of competition because the State has no competence in the field of social assistance, which is exclusively the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities and, in the case of the Community of Euskadi, with the peculiarity of the exercise of the executive function and with the organization of its own services by the outlying institutions of the historical territories. We added one last argument and it was that, if this initiative succeeds as it is, it would also entail a professional aggravation among the different health groups because there is no reason that could justify the establishment by law of the nursing ratios and not so those of the people who exercise as nursing assistants, cellists, anesthetists, surgeons or doctors of other specialties or other health professionals. That is why we will also vote against your amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u93	Thank you, President. The mechanisms for citizen participation in politics are very diverse and one of the most important is the popular legislative initiative, to which I will refer at the end of my speech. The popular legislative initiative to which the Group of Republican Left presents an amendment to the whole today and which brings the majority nursing union, Satse, with the support of hundreds of thousands of Spaniards, calls for the improvement of nursing ratios and establishes ratios for the various circumstances and areas of work that are given in nursing. Nursing is a profession I know very well, I live with her. It's the most vocational profession I know. There are other more vocational professions, which may be as vocational as nursing, but none are more. And they will allow me to tell you, moreover, that it is the most beautiful vocation that exists, that it is the vocation to care for others. From the beginning of this profession - which emerged saving lives in the trenches, often at the expense of one's own life - until today, where nurses have become infected, sick and died caring for others, the delivery of nursing staff, nurses and nurses, is absolute, is constant. The nurse, moreover, always is. Those of us who are lucky enough to live with one of these great angels on earth know well. They are people of another paste; people who live to care for others, as I have told you, and it is time to answer them. Therefore, we announce our support for this very fair popular legislative initiative in its day, because it provides more resources to nursing. Establish better ratios of nurses and nurses, apart from being good for them because the effort of their work will be able to focus in a better way, dose better and focus on fewer patients than they do today, above all it has a very positive impact on society as a whole, because it is good for all Spaniards who have more nurses and more nurses. It is more than proven, moreover, that there is a direct relationship with the results of the health system when there are more nurses. This established ratio would get us out of the queue where we are in the European Union with regard to nursing and put us at the forefront; it would be an absolutely pioneering initiative and we therefore welcome the fact that this popular legislative initiative has come this far. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is committed to working with the rest of the parliamentary groups and representatives of nursing and other health professionals to improve the content of this law during its processing. For us, other elements are of particular importance, such as, for example, whether in this way, or later, we will expand the ratio of other professions, such as physiotherapists, medical staff or occupational therapists, without forgetting that it is precisely the nursing professionals who have claimed these improvements for years, recognizing their efforts and maintaining the specific provisions for them. The mental health drama must also be addressed, incorporating provisions to improve the ratio of psychologists, which is also very important in our country. As we have already proposed on other occasions, yesterday or in the Senate a few weeks ago, Spain is 13 points below the European average in terms of psychologist ratios. We must also update, once and for all, the specialties of the health profession. And today we are talking here about the ILP for nursing, and with nursing we have a debt, with the specialties of nursing. It is necessary to develop the specialty of nursing in intensive care or for emergencies and emergencies; this is another of the debts that the State has with nurses. There are also pending specialties in physiotherapy or occupational therapy or emergency medicine, it is important that we do not forget these matters. We also want to facilitate cooperation between the various administrations to develop this ILP. I end by telling them that something new is being given today, and it is that Esquerra Republicana is presenting a complete amendment to a popular legislative initiative. Now that citizenship does use a legal mechanism to express its will, now that citizenship does bring an express will to the Congress of Deputies that they want to invest in effort and expand the nursing ratios, goes Esquerra and presents an amendment to the whole. Perhaps they should have brought him in a plastic ballot box and voted thirty times each; perhaps they would not have tabled this amendment. On what changes the amendment I do not want to go too far because I want to focus on nurses and nurses, but they eliminate the part referring to the Army, to military health, to military nursing. What do they intend to eliminate this part of the ILP? We'll vote against it. I end up thanking all the nurses and all the nurses for taking care of us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u95	Thank you, President. Before I begin my speech, taking advantage of the loudspeaker that this microphone allows me, I want to denounce the injustices that have been repeated frequently in my country, Catalonia: Enough! Enough of playing with the lives of fellow political prisoners, now in prison, a few days ago at large! [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Mr. Pedro Sánchez, he was amnestying political prisoners. Yesterday in Lleida there was a robbery. There is no firm sentence but the works of the... [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Last December 15, during the consideration of the proposed law on nursing ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas, the result of a popular legislative initiative on which now Republican Left of Catalonia has tabled an amendment to the whole with alternative text, the deputies of the Democratic Party voted against, due to the clear competitive invasion that it assumed. We know that the initiative arises from the best of the wills, but in its day we show that the fundamental problem of health is not to define and establish ratios of nurses, technicians in auxiliary nursing care, doctors, collators and many other health professionals who are also participants in the care quality and safety of the patient, but to have more financial resources, of more funding so that the autonomous communities can hire the professionals necessary to provide the best of services to the patients, build hospitals and build primary care centers. The amendment to the whole with alternative text submitted by the Republican Group completely modifies the wording and text of the single additional provision, referring exclusively to the financing of the obligations arising from this Act, but, surprisingly, at no time does it refer to the invasion of different powers of the autonomous communities. It is true that Xavier Eritja appointed him today in his speech. The organization, operation of personal and material resources of each of the health services is a competence that is unique and exclusive to the Autonomous Communities. We share, in order to improve one of the health problems, the fixing of the ratios, but these must be fixed by the autonomous communities, as provided for by both the General Health Act 14/1986 and the Statute d'Autonomie de Catalunya. There are different territorial realities and those who know them best are each of the different autonomous governments. If the text we are debating today is accepted by the various groups and the law flourishes in the established terms, it directly violates the rights of private health by requiring it, as well as the public, to comply with the ratios that will hardly be able to meet due to the lack of professionals. This is another of the major problems on which institutions should focus their efforts to prevent young people trained here from having to provide services in other countries where they are given the opportunity to have better choices with their career and salaries according to their studies. But private health is also financially cornered. How are they going to finance compliance with these ratios? Will compliance with these standards affect the quality provided in private health facilities today? Since the DeCaT we have always defended the importance of having a well vertebrate public health of first order in cohabitation with a complementary private health. We therefore maintain our original position against the proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas, and we will vote in favour of the amendment to the whole with alternative text presented by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, for assuming the lesser evil of the two, by addressing at least the issue of funding, not so the competitive invasion, which we intend to remedy by multiple amendments to its articulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u97	Thank you, President. On 15 December we discussed and approved in this House the popular legislative initiative on nurse ratios. What has happened since then? On 31 December, the General State Budgets were published in the BOE with an increase in health investment of 150%, a breakthrough of enormous value for the reconstruction of our public health system. Recently, we have been able to read that the president of the Spanish Private Health Alliance, Carlos Rus, at a meeting of the CEOE has rejected the law of nursing ratios. Well, it seems that the initiative has already served for the private health employer to be portrayed. Today Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia presents an amendment to the whole with an alternative text that only modifies an additional provision. It is true that this is an important additional provision, but you know, Mr Eritja, that this is not the most appropriate procedure. In any case, if this new debate serves to highlight the importance of public health, public services in general and the essential role of nursing staff, welcome be it. Today, March 11, it is a year since the WHO declared the state of the pandemic and this year we have learned some very important things. For example, we must take care of public health because public health takes care of us in the most difficult circumstances. And how can we do this? For example, in response to the challenges facing the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health. Some of them are: increasing public health funding; improving the coordination of autonomous services; strengthening primary care; reversing privatizations to shield public health; solving the problem of waiting lists; promoting a public pharmaceutical industry; enhancing biomedical and health research; increasing public health services and, of course, increasing nursing staff to simply ensure decent working conditions, which is the way to ensure patient safety and that we reach the European average once and for all. This popular legislative initiative is putting on the table an issue that is becoming taboo in the media. Spain needs more public employment and must be said with complete naturality. Public services do not operate without public workers and the welfare state is measured, among other factors, by the volume and working conditions of public workers. Well, right-wings have been spreading the belief that there are left public employees for years and years. Of course, the most privileged sector of the population may be dominated by public workers because they can access private services, but this is not the only thing left. They have been weakening public services for years, and precisely this erosion is the crack through which large companies are gathering and gaining ground for the public. Ladies and gentlemen, quality public health needs more workers and better working conditions. It is a nonsense that we have a shortage of staff when thousands of nurses had to leave our country looking for decent working conditions. We've got to get those people we train back. We need public programs for the return of nurses. It is true that this law needs adequate funding mechanisms - you are right, Mr Eritja, I agree - and that it can be improved on some fundamental issues - you have said - as in the guarantees of specialization. Indeed, it cannot be that we increase the ratio and lose quality - I totally agree - but it can be guaranteed. And, of course, the competition framework must also be polished. In the last decade, cut-off policies have put the state of self-government under an inexhaustible strain. Decentralization has a lot to do with austerity, because it was about the autonomous communities not spending on it. We are now in a different context, different from those policies of austereicide, and it is about assembling the state of autonomy with policies of social reconstruction. It is simply that the communities, within the framework of their autonomy, can develop and improve public services according to their needs, but, look!, that they can do so from a common minimum that ensures the well-being of all citizens, because in Catalonia the ratio of nurses is much higher than in the rest of Spain, but I tell you that the rest of Spain does not have those conditions. It is possible to guarantee a minimum for all citizens and I believe that it is time for us to work together to overcome this painful dilemma, especially for a leftist force, between territorial interests and social rights. That is why we have the process of amending the joint text. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just celebrated the 8-M and I would like to recall a few words from Barbara Stilwell, Executive Director of the World Health Organization's 'Nursing Now' campaign, who said: Women's voices are not heard and, as most nursing professionals are women, the voice of nursing is not heard. It is time for this House to listen to women and take care of the nurses who take care of us. I'm finishing up. During these long, hard and sad months we have seen that many retired nurses volunteered to vaccinate the population. What a contrast between these retired nurses and what the Emeritus King and the sisters of Philip VI have done! Merit and infants were offered vaccinations and were granted access; others were offered to immunize others. That is the huge difference between those who serve the public and those who serve the public. Spain needs less privileges and more social justice, and on the subject we are dealing with, more nursing staff. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u99	With all due respect, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. What we are discussing here is whether or not we are going to vote in favour of an amendment to the whole, we are not discussing the proposed law. Allow me a digression. I like to go up to this rostrum. From here I see your ladies and gentlemen working hard to review your speeches, fine-tune your questions, answer by whatsapp to your colleagues, voters and lobbyists in general and even read the news and call your mother lady, may God keep many years. I get it. From time to time, some of my speeches make them lift their heads and it seems good to me, they attend to me. All right. Essentially nothing new with regard to what Julio Camba describes in his Parliamentary Chronicles a hundred and thirteen years ago. But today, in view of this amendment to the whole of the Republican Group's proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health centres and other areas, I am faced with what happens to that theatre critic who, in the face of a very bad work, wrote only the following - I open quotes -: Today, Mr. And he went on: And I wonder, why? [[Laughter]] Because I remind you that we are not discussing the proposal for a law, we are discussing the amendment to the whole of the Republican Group. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on a popular initiative on minimum nursing ratios could have many detractors. Let's put it this way: people who believe that the fundamental problem is the lack of staff resulting from working conditions and low wages; people who believe that it cannot be solved without studying interactions with other professions that are fundamental, one of them, former clinic assistants, now technicians in nursing auxiliary care. Others might argue that comparisons with other nations are difficult to establish because the conditions are not the same. It wouldn't be unwise to think there were arguments about the complexity of nursing and medicine right now... Well, a touch. I think doctors have at least as much vocation as nurses. [[Applauds]] He told them that complexity at best does not support simplification and that a single size at best is not enough for so many sizes, because the issue is complex. And some, more thorough and inquisitive, could argue - and attack the proposition of law - that scientific evidence on the influence of nursing ratios on patient mortality is scarce. We could even expect Catalan secessionists to argue that the Catalan race is not only more beautiful but also superior, that it is less ill and therefore needs fewer nurses. [[Applauds]] But, no, ladies and gentlemen, none of this is reflected in this amendment to the whole of the amendment. This amendment to the whole is identical to the original text and proposed text in: the statement of reasons; Title I, Articles 1, 2 and 3; Title II, Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, and the single transitional provision. The only difference is that it removes the single additional provision, in application to the military health network. And it adds a unique additional funding provision. Of 2496 words, there is exact identity in 2442; that is, this amendment as a whole has 97.84 % identity in words and phrases. Menuda...! [[Applauds]] In short, Esquerra Republicana De Catalunya, the Republicans, the sovereignists, want to pass an amendment to the whole, a text that it does only removes the single additional provision, which regulates the application of the law to the military health network, which continues to reveal the enormous fanatical pollution that the Republicans have to the army; a fanaticism that led them to discard the help of the Military Emergency Unit in the first phase of the pandemic, gentlemen. That is to say, the proposer wants to pass a simple replacement amendment with false galas from an amendment to the whole. You can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that our group is going to vote no, because this is a fraud. Allow me, Your Honor, this is a fraud. [[Applauds]] A 98% plagiarism, Mr Eritja. Is this what the Republican Left Members call an amendment to the whole? The truth is that seeing this pseudo-amendment in its entirety, I am not surprised that they called the Catalan Republic an engineer who lasted eight seconds. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u100	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u101	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Republican Parliamentary Group presents us with an amendment to the proposal for a law on nursing ratios to guarantee the patient's safety in health facilities and other areas. An amendment to the whole, in which the only change is to amend the single additional provision, which refers to the application of this law to the military health network of the Ministry of Defence. I ask you: Do you consider that the Hospital Central de la Defensa Gómez Ulla In Madrid or the Hospital General de la Defensa in Zaragoza do not have to ensure the safety of patients in these health centres? From the People's Parliamentary Group we do not understand that health care centres should be excluded. That is why I am telling you that we are not going to support your amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight once again in this plenary the great work of health professionals in their daily activities at any of the levels of care at which the National Health System is structured and, in particular, the work of nurses to ensure the health of people and the safety of patients throughout their lives. Let me also highlight your work during this COVID-19 pandemic. There are more than 130,000 people infected with a total of more than 3 million confirmed cases in Spain and 71,961 people killed, according to the Ministry of Health; unfortunately, according to other agencies, there are many more people killed, more than 100,000. My condolences to your families. Focusing on nurses, regrettably, eleven have died from COVID. All my love for your families. [[Applauds]] And let me also have today a very special memory for the family of Sergio Luis, nurse and companion of forty-one years, who worked at the Prince of Asturias Hospital of Alcalá de Henares and who was brutally slaughtered in the hospital last weekend. No one should go through this terrible situation which, sadly, ended so badly and which has caused real trauma among his colleagues. With this I would like to convey to you, ladies and gentlemen, that nurses and other health professionals are subject to multiple incidences in their workplaces, not only those related to the pandemic virus, but also those related to aggression. It is an area in which we must continue to deepen, because in Spain there is an average of two attacks on health professionals every day, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior. Nursing is a key service in health care. A safe nursing supply implies the availability of an adequate number of nurses at all times of care. It is also necessary to ensure an appropriate combination of training, skills and experience, in order to ensure that needs, in terms of patient care, are covered and that an adequate work environment and working conditions help staff to provide quality care. Adequate nursing provision is essential for patient safety and quality of care in hospitals and in the community, as well as in all settings where health care is provided. A poorly equipped Nursing Template increases the risk that care will be compromised, resulting in adverse effects for patients, such as: increased hospitalization days, higher incidence of nosocomial infections, pressure ulcers in patients admitted, inadequate follow-up of chronic patients and even adverse effects on nurses themselves due to care overload, increased stress level, inadequate rest and personal exhaustion. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for a law, we must address these adverse effects that result in inadequate staffing of nurses. In the debate on the consideration of this popular legislative initiative we already expressed their opportunity and need in order to seek greater patient safety, increasing the number of nurses for their care in the Spanish health system where they are insufficient. We have an opportunity to do so in this draft law, but it is also necessary for the Government to establish good human resources planning to balance the supply of nursing with the health needs of patients and the population; it urgently prioritizes measures to eliminate job insecurity and structural temporality, and it works continuously and jointly with health authorities and educational authorities to plan the pre-graduate, postgraduate and continuing training of nursing professionals in an integrated manner, so that the qualitative and quantitative needs of the National Health System can be planned. For the needs of nurses to be planned in the medium term, aspects such as aging, chronicity, degree of patient dependence, health infrastructure, rurality and dispersion must be taken into account. We have talked about the lack of nurses, but I would like to list other issues that are not specific to this legislative initiative that are still pending and that require an urgent solution. This is the case with the general pay model and the extraordinary pay for the VOCID-19 pandemic; the recognition of the occupational disease for nurses who have contracted the VOCID, which is not a professional contingency; the promotion of the category of nurse specialist throughout the health system; the incorporation of nursing specialties and even the increasingly necessary and urgent state registration of health professionals, which at this time of vaccination would be so necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, moving forward on these issues would help to alleviate the negative effects on nurses in the workplace. Many of these aspects are reflected in the conclusions of the Reconstruction Commission and are not yet on the Government's agenda. Once again, in the area of human resources, and in particular as far as nurses are concerned, the Sánchez Government is not carrying out a single measure. We already know what it means, every time the ministers change, the holders of the Ministry of Health, when they say: we will continue with politics. Continuation with your predecessor's policy is to do nothing with healthcare professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guaita Esteruelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin, allow me a souvenir for all those people who have lost a loved one during this pandemic, and on a day like today also for the relatives of the victims of March 11. [[Applauds]] An infinite thanks also to health professionals and professionals. Thank you for giving everything during the pandemic, thank you for your exceptional dedication, thank you for your work, thank you for your heart, thank you for being with our family. Thank you, thank you and thank you. [[Applauds]] Left presents us as an amendment to the whole a simple partial amendment. They did not like the popular legislative initiative and that is why they did not vote in favour, but now they do not like the debate with all the parliamentary groups on equal terms, and that is why we are also being presented with this amendment. In the background, it does not surprise us, gentlemen of Esquerra: so many years in the shadow of the Catalan right have made it copy the way of doing politics. Three out of four health professionals are women, and these professionals are essential. Therefore, many of the collectives have a woman's face. That is why we must make it clear and clear that the role of women in this pandemic has not only been essential but also crucial; without them this country would not have been able to resist and without them we will not be able to get out of this health crisis. That's why, thanks to nurses, cashiers, doctors, teachers, cleaners, researchers. Without all of you the struggle would not be possible. [[Applauds]] The nursing group has been on the front line during the pandemic, and as a result has also been directly affected. The nursery, as well as the rest of the health professions and public health in general, was brutally cut by the right-wing governments, by the PP in the central government and by the Catalan right-wing in Catalonia, in the latter case with Esquerra as a necessary accomplice for many and many years. These cuts have involved a lack of personnel that has led them to work in exhausting conditions both physically and mentally. For all this and despite the obvious competition problems, a clear effort was made by many parliamentary groups to take into account the proposed law, basically by two premises: first, for the immeasurable effort of the nursing for many and many years working at the foot of the cannon and, second, because the almost 700,000 signatures that were collected demand that we be heard and properly attended. For these reasons, we cannot and cannot share your amendment, Mr Eritja, first of all because of respect for the almost 700,000 signatures collected; second, because it breaks the parliamentary consensus, and third, because your amendment to the whole is not so, it is basically a partial amendment, which can be managed by the usual procedure. In addition, you present us with an amendment to the whole, in which you do not propose to us improvements in the working conditions of workers or mechanisms to adequately care for the patient or decent conditions for exercising the profession or specialized training or attention to the diversity and complexity of the system. You don't propose any of that, all you're worried about is who puts the funds, nothing more than that. And you tell us that if we don't agree with that we don't agree with the initiative. No, we do not agree with your response to the initiative. The solution for my parliamentary group is the improvement of the National Health System and the management of human resources. Regrettably, the Republican Parliamentary Group is already used to ignoring the role of workers, just as it has recently been in other areas, such as the Bosch or Seat cases. A lot of demand, posture, in front of the cameras, but when you have to be on the side of the workers, you are neither expected nor expected. In the end, the right and its partners in Catalonia have a single objective: to weaken public health to justify the injection of public money into private health, and in this the right have no problem in agreeing. On the contrary, the Government of Progress has made a clear and unequivocal commitment to public health. It multiplied the budget by ten in 2021 - I repeat it by ten - from EUR 3027 million with the governments of the PP's right, to EUR 3421 million with the government of Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] This implies a clear commitment to the public health of this government, leaving the cuts of the PP as a regrettable memory of the history of Spanish health. And what has the right done all this time? He has come up here, complained, said that the government this and the other, but all he has done is vote against EUR 3421 million for health. And this is one of the great differences between the right - no matter whether Spanish or Catalan - and the socialist governments. For you, health is cutbacks, privatizations, job insecurity; for us, health is public investment, job dignity, system equity and equal access: different ways of seeing the public, which have a direct impact on workers and on people's lives. Finally, Mr Eritja and Mr de Esquerra, so much to insist on replacing the Catalan right that you have ended up defending your right-wing policies. Truth be told, this is a real shame. Our parliamentary group will vote against. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guaita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - DRAFT CONSUMER AND USER PROTECTION LAW CONCERNING SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2021 OF 19 JANUARY]] [[File number 121/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u105	Discussion of the entire consumer and user protection bill against situations of social and economic vulnerability. It comes from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I defend, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, this amendment to the whole with an alternative text to the draft law on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability, resulting from Royal Decree 1/2021 of 19 January. This text amends the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users of 2007, and our amendment has been drafted because we believe that this bill is unconstitutional, as it runs counter to article 33 of the Constitution, the right to private property, and article 93 on the principle of legal certainty. Furthermore, we understand that it is insufficient, as it does not protect consumers in a real and effective way and has many shortcomings. Our text is complementary, includes important news and better protects the 47 million consumers. Undoubtedly, this bill is the story of two failures of Mr Sánchez after two and a half years of government, first of all because of his inability to solve the problem of housing need and housing otupation in our country. Over the past two and a half years, public housing could have been built or more affordable housing could have been acquired. Instead, what has been done has been to transfer responsibility to the citizens. And secondly, because of the inability to protect consumers and users in a real way, who have actually used them to cover up their shames and support the mafias and the Okupas. In this case it is a question of protecting four million families, small homeowners who have employed in them the savings and fruits of work and the effort of a lifetime. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well what I'm talking about. We all know people who are going through very difficult times and who are in a situation of vulnerability. I have very dear friends who are in this situation of not being able to pay their rent, and they what they want, what they ask of governments are legal solutions to their housing problems. They are citizens in difficulty, they are not okupas. They are people in a situation of eviction, they are not okupas. And you have deceived them, disappointed them, and given them a long time. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, this bill is unconstitutional, because it attacks the principle of ownership in an open way, limits in an intolerable way the right to property and also the other fundamental rights. There are two missiles in the flotation line of the Constitution, one in article 33 of the right to property, because this bill protects and promotes illegal otupation and severely limits the content of the right to property, protecting the commission of an offence which, by the way, the authorities should prevent and punish. And it does so in two ways, first, expropriating the temporary use of a house and, secondly, legalizing the ocupation of a house, rather than protecting those four million small owners, who are mostly pensioners. And he told them that there is a second missile in the flotation line of the Constitution, which is in article 93, because it runs counter to the principle of legal certainty, and without legal certainty there is neither law nor democracy. President Casado, as a great liberal politician, - I open quotes - 'defender of individual freedom, the free market, legal security and private property as fundamental pillars of society', announced on 25 January that our party presented an appeal of unconstitutionality, which is already submitted to the Constitutional Court on 22 February, and has been done in defense of consumers, small owners and, by extension, all Spaniards. Our spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, right here in this rostrum, explaining the vote against Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 said textually - I open quotes -: 'Protection of private property is a matter of principles for the rule of law and for the property of many citizens. If you do not defend it from the Socialist Party and we can, we will do it from the People's Party, and that is what we are in.' Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the totalitarian drift of Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias and Mr Garzón, we are going to defend, first, freedom; secondly, freedom; and, thirdly, freedom. [[Applauds]] We are not going to allow the increasingly communist government of Sánchez to laugh at Mr Iglesias and Mr Garzón and undermine each and every one of the pillars of the state. And, ladies and gentlemen, following the criticism of unconstitutionality, I must also say that it is insufficient. And why is it insufficient? First of all, because you're late. We have been asking for this for years, and it has not been done in two and a half years by the Socialist Government nor in one year with the COVID pandemic by the Podemos Government. The PP has been a pioneer in regulating the issue of vulnerable consumers. You recall that we regulate the electrical social bonus, which has benefited more than 1 077 000 Spanish consumers, through two royal decrees and one order. The Socialist and Communist Government, in this case, could have devoted itself during this time to drafting a bill that will broadly reform the consolidated text of the General Law on Consumer and User Protection and includes the transposition of directives that are pending transposition, the vulnerable consumer, all additional charging lines 902, the unregulated customer service and the unconstitutionality of article 50, the first point of which is repealed at this time because it is unconstitutional, but has not been so. What they have done is an absolutely rare regulation, in the sense that they define it, but then it has no effectiveness or effectiveness whatsoever of what is regulated in this bill. On the other hand, it would appear that it comes in haste, that they have used the pattern of the modification of the consolidated text in relation to vulnerability. But, in fact, this precipitation is totally intentional. We believe that they are taking it urgently to avoid independent, rigorous and solvent reports, which provide the legislative procedure with new content and guarantees of constitutionality. In fact, we know that sometimes, even though there have been these reports, you have kept them. You have not consulted the Autonomous Communities or the Consumer Sectoral Council or the Council of Consumers or the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces or the Cermi or the ONCE or the consumer associations or any sector of which you are affected. It does not even come with the mandatory reports of the Council of State and the State's Advocate, and, as I said to you, when you are not worth it, you hide them. Undoubtedly, it has been a wish that, after a year of COVID, when there have been many people in vulnerable situations who needed universal basic services, you have not brought it. Moreover, as I told you, this bill is heavily contaminated. You have included in the first final provision an amendment which is the only thing that you do is to ensure that you can occupy a property and attack the principle of private property, and something tremendous, which is to break with what has always been in this Parliament, that is, a high consensus in all consumer reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, after the reproach of unconstitutionality and inadequacy, we have presented an alternative text. We have changed the status of vulnerable consumer throughout the text, because we believe that the situation of vulnerability of the consumer, as it comes in the title of the text, should be transitional and corrected, and therefore should not remain so throughout the text. In addition, we replace consumers with consumers and users, why this is in all the directives and also in the consolidated text. We also include, throughout the article, in the eight articles of the consolidated text, which are amended in a single article of the law, protection in terms of accessibility and information understandable in labelling, information on commercial offers and information prior to contracts. In addition, we call for face-to-face, consumer-based care and the protection and provision of customer-care information on labelling, the avoidance of discrimination in business practices that are made by telephone, remote hiring or home sales, and the provision of accessible customer-care offices for people with movement difficulties. We also call for sanctions to be tightened when attacks are made against vulnerable consumers, for informed consent and also for the right of withdrawal to be maintained. We also present in this text three final provisions. In one of them, the most important, we call for the Government to submit, within six months, a draft law on the in-depth reform of the consolidated text of the General Law on the Defence of Consumers and Users, which sets out, by including the directives to be transposed, the agenda of the European consumer, with all that has to do with and has changed in recent years in relation to digital transformation, the quality and safety of food, customer service services, the development of financial services and also the full guarantee in energy and telecommunications services. And what do we ask for? We call for this text to come at least with support, consensus and, above all, with the relevant reports, because we believe that the complaints procedure and the Consumer and User Council must be strengthened. Finally, we also present two final provisions on housing, in one of which we call for the deletion of article 1 bis of Royal Decree 11/2020, because it is an attack on the fundamental right of private property, and that within one month the Government bring in a bill to finally resolve the issue of otupation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we will always be with legality, respect for the Constitution and support for consumers. We thank those political groups who have told us that they will support this amendment as a whole. And we tell you, gentlemen of the government, that the PP will always defend the owners against the intention of the government to legalize the okupation. You are committed to weakening the rule of law, attacking the Constitution, limiting our rights and freedoms, and we are not going to allow it, we are not going to allow it and we are not going to allow it. Good morning and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u107	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u108	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are dealing with transitional measures motivated by the pandemic. We have already approved them once and today I only hope that this situation will be over soon. But the underlying problem with housing is structural, and since this time it seems that the expected housing law is serious, I will briefly comment on the models that are being discussed today in the political and doctrinal fields. Yesterday Mr. Iglesias, responding to an inquiry, said that we were going to attend an ideological debate that was going to pass into history through the Journal of Sessions, and reminded us that there are some existing rules, devoted half of his intervention to reading a list of names that appear in the summaries of corruption and, in passing, to accusing the deputies of the People's Party of purchases, and there ended the doctrine for history. The fact is that we have an article 47 in the Spanish Constitution that proclaims the right to housing and that needs development according to the times. And the truth is that the Constitution provides for mechanisms to intervene in this sector by the public authorities in ways that have not been done so far. In my modest opinion, Madam Speaker of the People's Party, this royal decree-law is not unconstitutional. We have very well configured article 33 of the right to property, which declares the social function and its defence against the limitations that may be imposed on this right. We have an article 38, which enshrines the market economy, but subordinated to the requirements of the general interest. Article 128 subordinates the entire wealth of the country to the general interest and 131 allows for collective needs planning. We have a 149 that allows the state to legislate in civil and contractual matters and coordinate the economy. In short, we have a Constitution that allows a progressive interpretation of the social function of property and has the flexibility that allows us to adapt to the times with the laws of each era. Today, the most constitutional thing is to enhance the social role of private property. But to enhance this function, the most appropriate and logical as well, the most effective is to encourage it. The best is the economic incentive, i.e. the tax incentive. It is better to encourage than to sanction, although we do not think it is wrong to punish from time to time. Expropriation can be very good, but only in timely and urgent cases. But if it is expropriated, it ends up costing taxpayers more and saving nothing in the long run. In fact, it is an investment, and there is agreement that it is necessary to invest in a public housing park. But the amounts available for public investment are limited and not enough to solve the problem. That is why it is necessary to have private investment. And the private sector, when it sells or rents homes, is fulfilling a social function. Prices need to be commensurate with social needs and to mobilize empty housing, and in these cases legal certainty and fiscal instruments are the most effective. And there, gentlemen of Podemos, you can play your part in limiting rents. But it can and must be voluntary. Finally, there is much to discuss, I think we will have an opportunity to do so, but for the time being, these measures, which are only temporary, serve to alleviate a situation motivated by the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that, as members of the Government do not attend plenary meetings, when some issues are discussed here, since the Government does not oppose those views, it will have to do so, because in the end we can get used to things that, of course, we are not prepared to go through. What do I mean? If every time a spokesman speaks of Euskal Herria, once again I will say that, on the one hand, there is the Foral Community of Navarre and, on the other hand, the Basque Autonomous Community. [[Applauds]] If a spokesman speaks of political prisoners, I will once again say that they are people who are convicted by the courts of law in a state of law and who also have the status of public office, but nothing more than that. And that must be said, because the Government is not going to say it, because the Government is not; it cannot say it. In addition, he prefers such things to be said, because he feels comfortable and because they also support him. Moreover, it must be said that for this Government - and it has been seen here today - if you do not support it - that must be known to all those who are supporting it - they are all right-wing. Haven't you noticed? The moment you do not support what you propose, they say: No, you are already right-wing. But what is this? It's a government that admits nothing! So what do you do? Easy. Hey, you need housing, what do we do? Do we do housing? No, for what? Hurry up! Hurry up! What are we going to make houses for? It's much more complicated to build than to destroy. It's been a lot easier all my life. So they say, "No, for what? Nothing, we call into question a fundamental right. Freedom has already put it at risk; now another, property. But we already know that they are the most democrats in the world. They are so democrats that today they want to prevent an autonomous community from voting, because they understand that their electoral failure will be so clear that they say: Better not to vote. But what democracy is this? [[Applauds]] It's a misconception. The Government disappeared, they do not let the citizens who vote and start expropriating the houses. Man, please! It is better that, sooner or later - I hope - there are elections, not here, but in Spain as a whole, and this government will pass into history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u111	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak very briefly, nor will I consume all my time. That I have to rise to this rostrum every time I precede that of the Union of the Navarro People and have to rectify their cultural ignorance, it seems to me... But I'm doing it today too. Look, Mr. García Adanero, the Basque Autonomous Community There is, the Foral Community of Navarre exists and Euskal Herria also exists; in case you do not know, Euskal Herria means the country of Basque, Basqueraren herria, or do you deny that Navarre is the country of Basque? Are you going to deny it? [[Rumors]] Well, if you're denying it, even the most recalcitrant requests of your Foral Community recognized the existence of Euskal Herria, you don't want to overcome them in ignorance. In any case, we have the amendment to the whole of the vulnerable consumer that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled. The People's Group presents this amendment, it is understandable, its speech in the validation of the royal decree gave it meaning, but in our view it is an amendment to the whole wrong from a perspective of parliamentary efficiency, although understandable - I say again - from a perspective purely of ideology or purely of opposition, of opposition party. I'll explain later why I'm saying this. He said that this bill for consumers and users in the face of situations of social and economic vulnerability that we are dealing with - which came from a real decree and it was decided that it should be treated as a bill - presents this amendment to the whole. I intended to introduce into state legislation the figure of the vulnerable consumer, as has been said, and it is true that in addition to dealing with this whole case, this issue does have provisions dealing with other issues, such as, for example, the object of the eviction of housing, port tariffs, etc., which is fine. Although we have always criticized, by the way, we do not like, the decrees cajón de sastre, that is, decrees in which, apart from the central theme, another number of issues are then included. But we'll go through with it. The subject of the vulnerable consumer, in the end, is that vulnerability is not only an economic parameter in defining it, and this decree at the end of the day recognized that, that there are other types of vulnerabilities besides economic ones, and we as a group share, so we did in the validation, the principles that were rooted in the argument. However, we also said, and we say it again, that it has certain complexities and leaves an excessively open definition and does not compromise much either. It can therefore have certain gaps at a time when legal uncertainty may need to be addressed and stabilized. There is a total definition - but I will not repeat, because I do not have much time - of what vulnerability is, and I think that in the validation debate we make clear to each group what we understood. But I think that a legal text - I repeat again - has to fine-tune a little bit more than this decree did. The presentation of the same decree explained the casuistics that we all understand, share and know: that they are people with disabilities, older people without a digital culture, single-parent families, migrant people with problems in understanding a language, children; that is, we all have the mental scheme of who can be a vulnerable consumer and, above all, what needs to be done is to define it in order to prevent this vulnerability from being a disadvantage when these people consume a product, understand, etc.; that there is, I repeat, no disadvantage on their part precisely because of that vulnerability. However, we believe that the measures introduced in this decree leave in a legal limbo this security that is to be given, it seems to us that they lack rigour and determination in many cases. There are indeed vulnerable consumers. The final disposition is another issue; I think we do not have to pervert. I mean, this is not a bill where there's a free bar, everyone who occupies whatever they want, etc. Please, let's not be hypocritical in this sense because we know that's demagogic. It was a question of sharpening that, at a specific time of pandemic, those families that have a specific housing problem and that need to be regularized, are not evicted while... In other words, there were very concrete conditions that made that a very concrete case, because you believe, if not, that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to vote in favour of: take over the housing that everyone wants? Man, I think that's very phony. I therefore believe that this is clear and I hope that the state of alarm will be over or that the pandemic will be over and that we will return to a situation of normality, regardless of - and we said this - the housing problem will have to be solved, the housing problem of vulnerable people will have to be solved and everything will never fall behind the owner's back, because we do not agree on that either; it is not the owner who has to carry on his back the housing problem that the State, society, may have to solve for these people. Having said that, our position is not in favour of this amendment as a whole. I think it is a mistake on the part of the Group of the European People's Party to table an amendment as a whole, although I have said that I understand it from an opposition perspective, but from the point of view of parliamentary efficiency, not because, if we have dealt with this decree as a draft law, I think it is much more enriching than at the stage of amendments each group proposes its own in a spirit of improving and developing the amendments in part. All these issues, which are a few and with some of them we can even agree, can be introduced at the amendment stage without the need to bring an amendment to the whole, because an amendment to the whole also has a risk: or everything, or nothing. There are no half inks here, either you vote in favour or you vote against and, of course, you will understand that we do not agree with everything you propose. Therefore, we cannot support it. I think it would have been much better to allow this to be dealt with without an amendment to the whole and to introduce any partial amendments that are deemed appropriate. Having said all this, you will understand perfectly well that our position is contrary to the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u113	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since its creation, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has been challenged by two fundamental issues: its lack of competence and its lack of capacity to drive any substantial change in the day-to-day lives of consumers and users; the lack of competence that we understand makes this ministry unnecessary and the lack of capacity of a minister who was only trying to cover at all costs the United Left's share of the Frankenstein Government of Sánchez, because this royal decree that we are dealing with today's amendment of all is one more of the attempts of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and its minister to demonstrate some capacity for action in a clearly adjusted area of competence, but that really, ladies and gentlemen, is a Trojan horse to include matters that have nothing to do with consumer protection action. Gentlemen of the Government and parties that support it, not content with centrifuging their responsibilities in the crisis that plagues Spain, abusing the procedure of the royal decree by stealing the voice of the Legislature, continuing to name judges and prosecutors, bring us another way now to weaken our democracy as it is to sneak into a royal decree dogmas of pamphlet to give them the character of law. In a little more than a year the democratic quality of this government presents a fatigue of materials more peculiar to a building built with aluminum cement. Gentlemen of the Government, you are the aluminosis of our democracy. On the role it might seem that the objective of this royal decree is the introduction of the vulnerable consumer figure into national legislation, a figure which, by the way, is already recognised at an autonomous level. Similarly, the New Consumer Agenda of the European Union for the period 2020-2025, objectives, ladies and gentlemen, which seem reasonable because who can oppose improving the situation of the most disadvantaged, those most in need of our solidarity, those who have fallen and are seeking help to rise again? We certainly don't. In Citizens we are clear that we will always help to defend and help the most vulnerable, the disadvantaged by the crisis, those who have had bad luck in life, those who have made a bad decision, and not out of charity, as others want, but because we firmly believe in the new opportunities, where you can fail and you can try again. But the debate is not really about this; it is not about vulnerable consumers or European agendas, because in the first final provision you place the ban on octopus by amending another royal decree that eliminates evictions. In other words, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs - in short, this Government - uses the figure of vulnerable consumers to justify and legitimize the opt-out. And not content with that, they include another provision to amend the State General Budgets Act. But in addition this Trojan device does not end here: port bonuses, basic channel prices and discharge control, the public domain regulation. All this has nothing to do with vulnerable consumers, ladies and gentlemen. We are always in favour of strengthening the role of consumers and users. We want to give them more freedom to choose autonomously the products they want to buy and the services they want to hire and we need to strengthen that role by providing necessary information, which has to take into account the vulnerabilities of some consumers, such as those who do not have sufficient financial training to understand the supply made to them by waves that do not have adequate digital skills to understand the consequences of their purchase on the Internet. But the changes that this royal decree makes in the matter of occupation are inconceivable, not only for this group, but also for any parliamentary force that values the Constitution and its article 33, in addition to the instruments of rights and freedoms that exist at European and international level. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we do not understand the extreme drift of this government, for which you are primarily responsible. They are throwing over forty years of responsible and state policy on the ground with the partners they have sought. If they want to improve compliance with article 47 of the Constitution on housing law, which we think is fantastic - I have already said - what they have to do is to act in the area of social policies and in measures to increase the supply of the real estate park in order to reduce prices. And they must act in the administrative sphere by removing barriers to access to housing, especially for young people and people in vulnerable situations. I will give you an example of what it is to really work to alleviate the situation of vulnerability in housing, unlike what you are doing with this royal decree, which is water with siphon. Look, Madrid City Hall, Mrs Carmena, in four years of government, promised 4,000 thousand social housing. Do you know how many houses Mrs. Carmena built in four years? Sixty-three. Sixty-three social housing units. Mrs Carmena's is the populist left. That is the reality of what the social rights of the vulnerable matter. Government of Citizens at the City Council of Madrid. Only in 2020 have we completed and delivered 814 public housing units for rent; in one year. At the end of the term we will leave the public housing company with 9000 public housing, 3000 more than we find when we arrive. That is to take into account the most vulnerable and the most disadvantaged, ladies and gentlemen, and not to encourage octopus. What can never be done is to allow illegality such as octopus to be committed and to try to legitimize such illegality from the institutions. This is amazing, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. Gentlemen of the PSOE, I have put on the table the difference between doing public policies with us and doing them with their partners. It's in your hand to choose. It is in your hand to continue to do this foolish - foolish - policy against our Constitution, against the most sacred thing a consumer can have, which is the effort of his work to have come to buy a home, to go and to be sheltered by the heartless. You are there or can really favor public housing with solvent and serious partners like us. It's in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u116	Thank you, President. As already indicated during the validation of Royal Decree-Law 1/2021, in PeCAT we share the need to regulate the concept of the consumer, user and vulnerable consumer person. It seems appropriate and necessary to us. We request that it be dealt with as a draft law, since the consequences of this concept of consumers and users in the face of situations of social and economic vulnerability are not sufficiently explicit, and we therefore hope that the process of the draft law will be speeded up so that appropriate amendments can be made. In the validation of the royal decree-law to which this bill purports to replace we abstained for two main reasons. On the one hand, the first final provision, which provides for the suspension of evictions in the event that they have occurred through certain offences, seemed problematic to us. In some crimes they maintain non-suspension and in some crimes they maintain suspension. As we explained a month ago in the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, if the Government normalizes that committing certain crimes is acceptable, we asked them to be honest, courageous and to amend article 245 of the Criminal Code. This claim must be raised in this House and whether there are majorities or not. For our part, we say that the attempt to modify the back door is unacceptable. The second reason for the abstention was due to a question of poor legislative practice. In the second final provision, the Government amended the Budgets Act without notice to those we had approved, fifteen days after its entry into force. With regard to the changes proposed by the amendment of the whole with alternative text submitted by the People's Party, article 1 incorporates various amendments to the Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users, which are again raised in the final provision first, with a more specific approach to a proposed law than to a law. There they call on the Government to draft a bill to amend the Consumer and User Defense Act, with prior consultation with the autonomous communities, whose spirit we share, but without even being able to point out that it must be considered with full respect for the consumer competences of the autonomous communities. On the other hand, with regard to the second final provision and the third final provision concerning illegal occupation, we share the concern of the proposing party on this matter, but again the People's Group proposes to resolve it in a legislative format, which makes little contribution to the resolution of the reported problem. In this context, we will maintain our original position of abstention from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 and we will also abstain from the amendment to the whole with alternative text presented by the People's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u117	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Domínguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have had the opportunity to make a somewhat paused reading of the text of the amendment to the whole that the People's Party is presenting today to the draft law on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability, you will have realized its absolute lack of relevance. The text, which consists of a mixture of the original text and a poorly done, poorly constructed, sometimes abundant populist discourse, results in contradictory statements among themselves, such as saying that there is no need for regulation at the state level because there are already regulations in certain autonomous communities and at the same time arguing the imperative need to have legislation - therefore approval of this law - at the state level. The text also results in subordinates who do not coordinate and in articles and substantives without concordance, but well, this also has no more relevance. I would like to stress four points that this amendment to the whole PP intends to introduce. First, the amendment seeks to legislate against the European Union; then I will detail it. Secondly, they want to replace - as Mrs Riolobos has said - the 'vulnerable consumers by 'consumers and users'; that is, they want to make the concept of vulnerability invisible. Thirdly, they strongly and blatantly deny the situations that we women suffer in our consumer relations, situations that are always inferior and complicated. And, fourth, they try to criminalize vulnerability, cut the right to housing and lie about the impact of this decree on private property. The first point I mentioned is that the amendment calls for legislation against Community law because it calls for transposition of certain European directives in less than six months. But the European Union itself says that these directives have to be transposed in less than five months five is less than six. The second of the points I have listed refers to the replacement of the term 'vulnerable consumers' by the more vague term 'consumers and users'. The term has to be 'vulnerable consumers': one, because it is inclusive, represents us all and, two, because that is the term contained in European directives, in Council legislation, in Parliament regulations and also in state, sectoral and also in different legislations at the autonomous level. The third aspect that I wanted to highlight concerns the denial of the vulnerability situations that women experience in our consumer relations simply because they are women. This is evidenced by eliminating phrases that are in the original bill such as: It is visible how vulnerability also has a cross-cutting gender component. This outside, it's not going to be the truth told. They also eliminate: the fact that gender is a structural factor that positions women as subordinates in the economic sphere. This, too, is what they want out of the decree. It also goes beyond the fact that women suffer from more chronic diseases, that we have less purchasing power on average, and that we are at the head of most single-parent families. The last point that I have mentioned to you, and not because of it - as is often said - is less important, refers to the fact that I want to criminalize vulnerability, cut the right to housing and lie about the relationship of this bill to private property. It is clear in the text - as in the speech of his lordship of the PP - that there is a clear intention to take advantage of people's despair to turn it into fear. There is a clear intention to criminalize vulnerability. In the speech made by the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it will become even clearer to them - in case with the right-wings who have already spoken not enough - the intention of the right-wings to criminalize people in vulnerable situations. And all that, to cut rights under the false umbrella of security. Both always talk about the need for citizen security. I agree with that too, our streets must be safe for all and for all, but also a home must be safe, because the roof, ladies and gentlemen, is a right, and citizen insecurity is not the protagonist of vulnerable people, citizen insecurity is the protagonist of bad people. You say that this bill wants to legalize okupation, and it is not so, first, because the main occupation that we live in is already legalized, because the main occupation that we live in is the one that makes with its approval the vulture funds, that remain our homes, and also the vulture financials, that put social rental name to what often becomes social domination, knowing very well that the new exploitation of classes no longer passes only through exploitation through the ownership of the means of production, but through the ownership of the homes, the ownership of the housing. It is also a right-fixing that some laws of certain communities do, which allow you to deny a rental aid on the grounds that the person in need of the aid has too low income; it is absurd. To conclude, this bill does not seek to legalize octopus because the bill makes it very clear that the crime is not protected. I read you a piece of the first additional provision - what it would look like - of Royal Decree 11/20, which is where you initially drink everything. It says: Under no circumstances shall the eviction referred to in this article be suspended if the entry or stay in the house has taken place in the following circumstances: if it has been entered and it is shown that it is habitual domicile or second residence, even...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u119	Your Honor, please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u120	That's all. What violates the Constitution in its article 20 is the lies that count, because every Spaniard has the right to truthful information. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u121	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Fernández Ríos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we are amending in this plenary a bill submitted by the Government on the protection of consumers and users from situations of vulnerability, which should, in theory, serve to protect consumers and improve the situation we currently have. But, instead, what this Government is presenting is a text with an endless statement of reasons to justify itself and a minimal operative part, all miswritten, full of legal errors and with a very clear ideological intention. Let's be concrete. The biggest problems in consumer protection are basically in the energy, communications and finance sectors, and in most cases it is not a problem of bad practice, but a problem of simple transparency. Start, gentlemen of the Government, to regulate and shield Spain, as has been done in other countries of our environment, in transparency, in the procurement arrangements, and from there, once the basic rights of all consumers have been secured, then proceed to regulate special protocols, protocols for these vulnerable consumers. That's the logic, at least, from general to special, but don't try, as always, to start the house on the roof. Because you, gentlemen of the government, as trilers who only care about one goal, win by cheating, start this project directly with the very definition of what is meant by vulnerable people, and do so with such a broad concept that it seems that it only pursues one thing, that is to give the Administration the fact of regulating at its will, as it pleases, that very personification. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Spaniards no longer rely on the discretion of this government, much less on the discretion of a consumer minister, wherever he is, who said that before he was a communist minister, he threatened that his management would be full of conflicts between consumers and businesses. I have told Minister Garzón several times: understand this, gentlemen of the government, companies are not the enemies of consumers, quite the opposite; companies would not exist without consumers. [[Applauds]] Only in specific cases of bad business practice should the Administration guarantee the greatest of protections, but, of course, I say this to Mr Garzón and many of you, that most of you have a non-existent working life and have done nothing but live linked to a political party, that you have never paid a payroll, that you have never asked for credit or risked your assets to open up a business, that you have never been self-employed and that in your life you have worked in private business by receiving orders or fulfilling goals to earn your bread; and you are now trying to explain to others what are the relationships between businesses and consumers. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, Minister, wherever you are, we in VOX do speak the language of the street and we can explain to you the nonsense of what you are proposing. Because we are not fooled, this whole bill, this whole law as a whole, is nothing more than a smokescreen, a huge legal perch that introduces a significant innovation in its first final provision which, on its own, is enough for our group to support this amendment as a whole, even if it is much better, Mrs Riolobos, especially if the absurd references to gender ideology in its explanatory statement are eliminated. [[Applauds]] Yes, the Government has already used the royal decree that has been cited to amend the Anti-Effort Act and prohibit it in various cases with the alibi of the state of alarm. But now they want to take a step further, now they want to see those who occupy themselves not being evicted using methods punishable by the Criminal Code, that is, as long as the octopus has not occurred through intimidation or violence against people. We could get there, we could get there! They haven't dared to take that step yet. [[applause]] That is, from now on the launch will no longer be interrupted when the turn okupa has forced the door or window into a house like this; they will only be okupas if they have entered by beating or intimidating the owner. You, gentlemen of the government, what you really want with this bill is to whitewash the Okupas by turning them into vulnerable consumers. [[Applauds]] Minister, wherever you are, let me introduce you to the truly vulnerable: Pilar, Vic's health care provider, who in March 2020 occupied his house when he came to save lives in Reus and the police kicked her out of his house several times when he tried to recover her; Francisco and Macarena, Gines' marriage, who in June 2020 with much illusion buy his house from a bank and when they formalize the contract they see that they have oppated the house, but as we are under the state of alarm neither the police nor the court do anything; Paola, Bolivian legal immigrant in unemployment, who one day wanted to enter his home in El Tardón, in Seville, with his three-year-old daughter, and the okupas had changed the lock, also ended up denounced by these okupas for trespassing from his own home. And so I can be presenting for hours cases and cases because, Minister, you do not deceive the Spaniards: the vulnerable are not the ones who occupy dwellings by forcing the doors; the vulnerable are Pilar, Francisco, Macarena and Paola, who are helpless by this government; because the ones who care are the homes of the working people, of the humble people like Pilar, Francisco, Macarena or Paola, because they have no means, like you, to protect themselves. I'm done, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Government, if you really want to protect Spanish consumers, do not try to use any excuse to try to always introduce your ideological agenda. Start by deleting, first of all, this Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which, as I said to Mr Garzón in the debate on general budgets, is the ministry of nothingness because nothing or little manages, because nothing contributes, except unnecessary expenditure, because it serves nothing for the interest and protection of the Spaniards, and because the only use of this bill is that Mr Garzón, instead of passing on to history as the minister of nothingness, is remembered as the minister okupa. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u123	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I remind you that sound works well. [[Applauds]] Allow me at this hour these things.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, really, stop trying. They are well aware that what they are actually doing here is using the amendment as a whole as a political manoeuvre to delay the debate on the draft amendments and the date of their final adoption. It is no wonder that they left this bill in the dream of the righteous for more than seven years of Rajoy's government, and this government, in just two years and with a pandemic in the middle, has set it in motion, and yet they do not blush at saying that we are late. To the lordship of VOX, look, I find him a little out of place because here is not the minister nor is the government's bill being debated but an amendment to the whole People's Party. You have therefore not focused much on the debate. I will simply tell you that you can keep your parental pin because in the Region of Murcia you are no longer going to implant it. [[Applauds]] And by the way, order your puppies to stop making rock paintings on the murals that show the woman's story. [[Applauds]] Just two weeks ago, on the proposal of other parliamentary groups, we adopted in this House the Royal Decree-Law on Vulnerable Consumer Protection as a bill, and we did so precisely to give us the opportunity to work on the text, negotiate amendments, listen to organizations and social groups; in short, to dialogue to improve its content with a single objective: to give a better and more accurate response to vulnerable consumers. That is the compass that must guide us in political action and not another, and this parliamentary group, despite having to suffer the worst opposition at the worst times, is not going to lose the north. They are well aware that the text of the amendment as a whole they present is insubstantial. They do not really propose an alternative text on vulnerable consumers but basically the deletion of one of the provisions of this bill from its first final provision. But, of course, in this case for VOX is not a fraud. The fact is that for the same reasons they have rejected the amendment to the whole of the previous debate, which shows that it is the ladies and gentlemen of VOX who are actually fraud. [[Applauds]] As an experienced Group, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that you could easily have treated it as a partial abolition amendment rather than bringing it back to the plenary of this House, but you have decided to do so and, instead of choosing to speed up this bill to benefit citizens, you have chosen to equip yourself with a new scenario to repeat the arguments that you have already put forward in the validation debate, arguments that have already become clear to us because you have not provided a new one, and that you repeat them do not make them more solid, only make them more tiring. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of vulnerable consumers requires the urgent adoption of the measures provided for in the text that we adopted just two weeks ago, and you know it, and it is urgent because it is necessary to end a legal vacuum in our state legislation; it is urgent because European legislation also obliges us to protect vulnerable consumers; and it is urgent because the social and economic impact of the pandemic on consumer practices requires greater protection for vulnerable consumers. But unfortunately this does not seem to matter to you, despite the fact that the most recent published studies place the Spanish vulnerable consumer population rate at 39% you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, with this amendment all of you are intentionally delaying us with the necessary legislative measures to be able to protect that 39% of the population. And they do so by lying again in parliament saying that this bill gives the Okupas a free bar, protects the criminals and leaves the Spaniards helpless. Your goal, that of the People's Party, is to scare the Spaniards; that of this government is to protect vulnerable consumers. Their strategy is to make them believe that private property is in danger by creating social alarm and a problem where there is no such problem. Our obligation is to unmask their lies with arguments. [[Applauds]] Why? Because it is necessary to relieve those families of the unnecessary anguish that they want to generate, because by a wretched vows it is not worth creating anguish for the citizens of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are many families who, with their work and lifelong effort, have bought their homes and who do not deserve the lies you seek to make them believe, that with the passage of the bill of the vulnerable consumer their homes can be occupied with impunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, as I did in my previous speech, I once again disassemble with arguments and data the sham and lies that have been launched from this rostrum. We begin: the bill does not violate the right to private property and does not paralyze anything of its own motion; it only empowers the judge, if it deems it appropriate, to give three months to social services to seek a housing solution and thus not to leave dependent minors or victims of violence on the street. If there is no solution in three months, the launch will continue. I repeat, only in cases where minors are dependent or victims of violence that are vulnerable and if the judge decides to do so will three months be given because they have told us from social services that they need them. It is not an invitation to okupation nor is there an effect called. It is only - I repeat - during the state of alarm and only for the evaluated cases that occur before the entry into force of the royal decree; that is, before the publication of the month of December. In addition, only if they have blocked a dwelling of a large fork, i.e. natural or legal persons holding ten or more dwellings. And it goes without saying that for these paralysiss an economic compensation has been established that the big forks can request. Each and every one of the lies that you have launched from this rostrum are shown, so stop penalizing poverty by bulging unfounded fears among Spanish citizens, standing pathetically as the safeguards and defenders of something that you do not need to defend because it is simply and plainly not in danger. This is the case with private property. Repeat with me: private property is not in danger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and VOX, they are not giants, they are mills. [[Applauds]] And precisely because they are mills, we will vote against your amendment as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u125	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u126	We are now discussing the request made by the Plural and Mixed Parliamentary Groups for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into Vaccine Management and the Vaccination Plan in Spain. Mr Baldoví Roda spoke on behalf of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a year ago, the pandemic began. It was something new for the vast majority and no one knew very well what was going on, but we all wanted and still wanted the same: to finish as soon as possible. After a year of confinement, of mobility restrictions, of not being able to see family and friends, of losing jobs and closing businesses, of getting used to wearing the mask everywhere - it seems that we go naked without mask - we are now closer to the end. Why? For the vaccine, which has developed in record time. Researchers and scientists have come to the fore and achieved the beginning of the end; what we dreamed of at the beginning of the pandemic is becoming a reality. But like any ideal situation, vaccination also has its problems. Ideally this vaccination should never have existed. The public institutions are to ensure that access to the vaccine does not follow a market logic, as happened at the beginning of the pandemic with the masks, which rose to 500 % when we need them most, or the hydroalcoholic gel whose price in some cases multiplied by more than 30 %. We want all vaccines to be distributed with a social logic, first of all to be distributed to those who need them most, not to those who can pay for them or to those who can be taken in. We have rid ourselves of the criterion of the market, but we have not rid ourselves of the caradures or those that are being picked up, of those who believe they are above the rest. We have felt shame when we see that the Chief of the Defence Staff, the Health Councillor of Murcia, the Health Councillor of Ceuta, the Bishop of Mallorca, the Chief Prosecutor of Castellón, mayors and councillors of different municipalities have been vaccinated. It is as if in a family the parents are cared for first and not those who may need it more. And not content with this, we have had to endure and see that the girls Cristina and Elena have been vaccinated by taking advantage of a visit to their father in the United Arab Emirates. They claimed they were offered the vaccine and accessed. I believe that public servants should have an ethics and set an example, be the mirror where citizens look. Some people are not shocked by this situation, such as the mayor of Madrid, who analyses it from his role as a subject. But anyone who analyses it from the role of a citizen, who cannot be vaccinated, who cannot go to see his parents or, for the time being, dream of being vaccinated, is normally indignant. In addition, we have suffered delays in the remittances of some vaccines, such as those from AstraZeneca, and the abuses of some pharmaceutical companies with patents and the price they impose on vaccines have been known. Similarly, the European Union's Vaccination Strategy sometimes cracks and some countries are beginning to seek vaccines alone. We see that the Sputnik vaccine will be disembarking in a short time. In other words, we also see that some autonomous community is committed to the privatization of this vaccination. It could not be other than the Community of Madrid, the only one that has for the time being expressed its intention to do so. Why do we propose the creation of this Commission? Because we want the vaccination process to work with guarantees. For something to work in democracy, it has to be transparent because citizens have a right to know. That is precisely why we have presented eight commissions over and over again to know the king's chanchullos emeritus, whose daughters have gone to visit him and have taken a vaccine as a souvenir. We understand that this process, which is the most important challenge of all that we face this year, must be monitored with all the guarantees; light and stenographers so that no one can again skip their shift in hiding. While there is a person at risk without vaccination in our country, you have to have little decency, little shame to think you deserve the vaccine more than they do, be it who you are, the infant, the king or who you are. We need to know the possible irregularities, the lack of transparency or the possible abusive clauses of State contracts with some pharmaceutical companies. This is our main challenge this year, I insist, and let us not allow a few to end up discrediting this process for bad practices or negligence. The corporal. I have always thought that political management is much better if it has proper controls and this can be good control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. Excuse me, the Joint Group is going first. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. I hadn't seen him.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u129	Thank you, Mr. President, I just hid there. Good afternoon to everyone and everyone again. I'll be very brief. When Mr Baldoví proposed to us the possibility that the Joint Group would support this initiative, I told him that yes immediately on several issues relating to the pandemic and vaccines, in particular its process of preparation and also its process of distribution. First, this pandemic has been associated with a set of absolutely harmful fake news or false news, which have greatly harmed the general interest, the public health of the population and which have in no way benefited patients who have suffered from COVID-19. Secondly, these fake news have also been largely associated with the issue of vaccines. It is also true that the information when it works, as it has worked in this case, is useful and has made a turn in the opinion of the citizens of the Spanish State, so that today the opinion of the people who consider vaccination to be necessary is very much the majority. This has been the product of the truthful and permanent information in the face of the nonsense that we have had to listen to and that we still hear on certain occasions. The question is, however, that the only, indeed, definitive way to overcome the pandemic is through a vaccination that, by definition, has to be universal because it turns out that the pandemic is called that because it is universal and, therefore, vaccination must also be universal. This concept of getting vaccinated me and laughing people is very dangerous because if vaccination does not occur on the planet as a whole, then we will not have ended the pandemic in a significant way as long as we are vaccinated, and cases will continue to occur until the virus decides. It is therefore necessary to go into depth on the issues affecting the vaccination process, such as its development and the guarantees for its development. There is some news about this, but, finally, when things are done so quickly - you have to realize that a vaccine takes about ten years to produce on average and we are talking about an absolutely record time - there are still some elements that need to be studied with absolute transparency, especially with regard to the large pharmaceutical multinationals that make them. And then there is the issue of distribution; where they are distributed, on what criteria. The universal criterion? Who goes first and who goes next? Are there commitments from the large multinational companies that are violating the general interest, the interest of the majority, the public health of the population, because the criterion of distribution is not being made according to strict population criteria to try to achieve that horrific expression of herd immunity? These are issues to consider. Are the big multinationals, really, in this case, subject to the defense of the general interest that is called public health or are they subject to some other type of interest that exceeds that? Is the procurement procedure that the European Union has established really being strictly complied with and are we receiving the amount of vaccines that were committed from the outset, yes or no? Because now the problem we are having is not whether there are vaccines or not, but that the distribution, of course, has not fulfilled the initial times that were planned. Is that because it had to be, or is it because multinationals have decided to make decisions that need to be corrected? Are there elements to correct the work of multinationals? They have freedom of enterprise, of course, but when we are talking about public health, does there have to be certain public controls, as the word itself indicates? There are, therefore, a lot of issues to be raised, and I believe that from all these Committees an opinion should emerge that will help us put everyone in line when it comes to preserving the health of humanity. Because it turns out that we alone do not save ourselves with either a vaccine or without a vaccine; here everyone is saved or no one is saved. This is very clear. It is therefore entirely relevant that this Commission should be set up, and I trust that this is the decision of the House. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Now, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u131	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. This Commission is not going to lack work. There is much evidence of bad practice on this issue. And it's that crises usually bring out the worst and the best of what's in society, of what's in people. It is in times of crisis that the worst and the best values emerge most; it is when actions guided by the most positive values appear or actions guided by the most selfish and less altruistic values. Therefore, it is in this scenario that so many reprehensible behaviors of people who have taken advantage of their situation have emerged in order to be able to get ahead of others to the vaccines or to take advantage of them; from a selfishness with which these people forget their social and political responsibilities and the obligations corresponding to these positions. Serious breaches have been made of the criteria set out in the vaccination plans, for example, when vaccinations have been irregularly placed on officials of centres, political positions, public positions, military or civil servants. The protocol has been violated and staff and family members not covered by it have been vaccinated. Personnel belonging to lower priority groups have been vaccinated, without the highest priority or risk groups being fully vaccinated. The disappearance of vials has also been reported in some vaccination centres. These are facts that have occurred in virtually all territories, in all places, also in the Basque Country. People very different from social and health services have been involved in these bad practices. And I do not want to forget the staff of real abolengo, who also abuse their situation to access vaccination. Citizenship, therefore, has the right to know this reality, and this Congress must make an effort to clarify these irregularities and to put in place means to ensure that they do not occur, neither now nor in the future, and that if they do occur they can clarify these responsibilities. We therefore support the proposal to set up this committee of inquiry on the management of vaccines and the vaccination plan. This committee should be able to investigate the characteristics and extent of these irregularities; the structures of the traffic of influences that have enabled these irregular vaccination practices, including those of senior officials and public officials; the existence or not of procedures in place for the investigation of the facts by the different officials of the institutions that have been involved. That is, to know the management that has been made of these processes to force those who have been vaccinated off duty to assume these responsibilities. The committee should also examine why there are shortcomings and delays in the management of vaccines. This should be done by investigating how these irregularities, failures and delays in vaccine management and vaccination plans have occurred. It is essential to analyze the quality and failures of vaccination protocol compliance control mechanisms. Another important aspect of the work to be analysed by the committee is the degree of compliance by pharmaceutical companies with contracts and the assessment of the actions being carried out by the Government and the European Union. We must review the characteristics of these contracts - of course not! - and see if there have been any irregularities in the face of the lack of transparency and the abusive clauses that we are suffering from. The committee must, of course, make recommendations and opinions in order to ensure that those who have abused their situation assume their responsibilities and that these attitudes, which are contrary to the general interest, do not go unpunished and unanswered in order to improve the protocols, so that they do not repeat these behaviours, and that if they are not complied with, they are more easily detectable. I repeat, therefore, that we approve and support the establishment of this committee. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning and good afternoon. At this time for some will be good days and for others will be good afternoons, i.e. greetings in both ways. To set the position of our group and tell them how we see this committee of inquiry, we would like to look at two aspects. We will start with the form, so it is the committee of inquiry itself and, secondly, with the substance. I must recognise the tone in which this debate is taking place today, at least for now; I believe that it is a kind tone in which there is the possibility that something could be achieved in a working group context, but we have to show our scepticism. We all know here - I don't think anyone knows it - what the dynamics of the commissions of inquiry are and how the commissions of inquiry respond to those majorities that are able to articulate. Some say - I don't remember who it is, so I'm very sorry I can't recognize the authorship of the expression - that politics has become a sort of reality of ugly people. From time to time, some beautiful swans pass ahead, but it is a reality show of ugly people, ugly people, to whom politicians and politicians do not make them astound because, from the virtues that were once grateful and put in value to develop politics - seriousness, discretion, rigour -, now it has gone on to a policy in which speed, immediacy, zasco and the pursuit of the enemy's wear have gained much ground and invaded the political sand by flood. That kind of policy and those virtues and characteristics that the current policy has require dishes, require lights, require cameras and require microphones to develop. And that is leading to effects that, in our view, are harmful. We are in a state of alarm, all of us know it, but we have already - as you have already said - been in this situation for over a year, and sometimes you get used to a situation that you should never get used to. We are in a health emergency, we are in a pandemic, we are at a critical time for the success of the vaccination campaign to achieve that collective immunity. Let us show our scepticism and our fear of this commission of inquiry as an instrument for carrying out the work of control. Let us not forget that it is up to this House to carry out the control work of this government, only of this government, of those sitting on the blue banks. Since then, throughout the whole state of alarm, regularly and in the Health Committee, the minister and the minister have been assisting to account for all the different aspects that are emerging, and we believe that there are other instruments of control that can be better at the moment. Following the form, it would seem to us a gross error - a gross error is an error that, by its dimension, would be unforgivable - that, pretending to enter into that pitiful spectacle and ring that we are talking about and always looking at the and you more and you more, which in the end we achieve is unique and exclusively disorienting citizenship even more, disorienting society more, when in reality what it requires are certainties. They ask us for responsible work and certainty, and it would be unforgivable and a genuine political irresponsibility that from this parliamentary seat what we could bring to this necessary political control is to open up all the seams of a health system. It is a health system in which, at the moment, there are hundreds of thousands of professionals from different fields: scientists providing knowledge to make decisions; managers and politicians making decisions; technicians and health professionals who are implementing each and every one of these decisions and continuing to work for all this to go forward. We must not begin to question everything and put an end to a superior good such as the public health system and all the systems that are currently working together. On the merits, the initiative raises basically four issues. First, to clarify responsibilities and irresponsible actions. - In our opinion, the proceedings have been occasional, exceptional. Put the magnifying glass on them in general and think it is a generalized behavior we consider it to be a mistake because they have been exceptional. They are always repeated because they are scarce, of all political formations, of all political elements, of all trades and, many of them, have assumed their responsibilities, either by their own decision or because the structures have decided to do so. Another of the issues that we will have to address in the committee of inquiry - because it seems that it will come forward - are the shortcomings of the vaccination plan. Does anyone believe that this vaccination plan is not going to fail when millions of people are being vaccinated at the same time around the world, with a vaccine that has been successful in a year, and following a vaccination system? It's unthinkable, it's unthinkable from a realistic point of view. Does anyone think that the road map of that vaccination plan is not going to change? It's impossible, because we're in a dynamic pandemic that requires updates. The situation of pharmaceutical companies and the lack of compliance with their commitments in Europe are called for to be clarified. That is true, but the European Commission has struck the table and has put in place strict export controls on all vaccines being produced in laboratories in the European Union. What we cannot admit or give political backing from our parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u134	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u135	End in forty, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u136	No, no. It's just that it's over. We have to be strict over time. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u137	Thank you, President. The pandemic has killed tens of thousands of Spaniards, especially with certain groups, the elderly especially, but also with people with various conditions and people without conditions. These groups, the weakest in front of the coronavirus, saw the vaccine as their only hope to regain normalcy in their lives, but above all not to lose their lives. The elderly have spent fear, time without seeing their loved ones and many have died waiting for the vaccines. In this thesis, some have become involved in vaccination by taking advantage of their privileged positions in politics, in the administration or in a union. We have known many forms of corruption in Spain, we have known the EREs with which the money of the formation of the unemployed has been stolen; we have known the Gürtel, money that corrupted an entire system of public contracts; we have known all kinds of misappropriations, and the truth is that in Spain the political class has been very creative in terms of corruption, we could set up a great museum with some parties in this House. But I recognize that the corruption that has caused me the most disgust and rejection is the corruption that involves stealing life from those who yearn for it and those who fear losing it every day. Because those who have been vaccinated earlier have done so at a time when, as we have seen, vaccines were missing; in fact, vaccines are missing. And these wretched people whose lives were not in danger have fallen and stood before those who were in danger. The spokesman for the PNV has said that they have run away from all the parties; no, Mrs Gorospe, from all the parties not; of Citizens no one has run away; people from the PSOE, the PP, the Juntas, the Canary Coalition, the PNV have run away, and the majority have not resigned. Of Citizens no one has been thrown, but I guarantee you one thing: if a member of Citizens had been thrown into the vaccination, at five minutes he would be on the street; I guarantee him. [[Applauds]] It is true that there is neither a law nor an article of the Penal Code for anyone who pushes an elder to put himself or his partner or his family or his friends or his political party members in the line of vaccination, it is true. But there is a moral law that must fill with shame those who have been immunized irregularly; the planning of the ministry is true that it has failed in this sense; it should have foreseen, knowing some political parties and their trajectories, that this could happen and the absence of sanctions... - Gentlemen of the PP, don't get nervous that I haven't named you yet; now I'm going -...has allowed these to leave from rositas in the courts. [[Rumors]] Or we'll see. The total number of vaccinated charges that have been detected by usurping the vaccination order has been 526. It is true that they have not resigned. Nothing else has resigned those who were dependent on Citizens, but as more cases have become known, they have become more nervous and the thing has been getting more entity. Of the 526 vaccinated charges that have been dropped in front of the elderly and those who needed the vaccines, 470 are in the region of Murcia, 470 are in charge, their partners and their conmilions. And we in Murcia had asked to publish the list of those who have taken part in a commission of inquiry that is going on there and have not given it to us. There are 470 hats from other people's lives that the People's Party protects in anonymity. You'll know why. They are people who in the Titanic would have pushed the women and children of the lifeboats to get in. That's what you're protecting by denying the information to that commission of inquiry. I believe that there is another vaccine that was put in Spanish policy a long time ago, which is the vaccine against shame, as everything slips over them. And you don't think this is going to have any more significance? I hope he does. I know we've done the right thing in dealing with this moral scourge and I know we did well in getting the charges that got vaccinated, they, their partners and their friends to resign. I know that we do the right thing by removing from institutions those who believe that their lives are more important than those of ordinary citizens. Gentlemen of the PP, I know you're talking about killing Citizens and I know your secretary general calls for transfuguism. I say to you and I recognize one thing, if you want to export the PP model to other parts, if you want to get into the vaccine against those who need it most, if you want to go back to the rounds with irregular recruitments like in the City Hall of Murcia and if you want to pursue the complainants for corruption, you must actually kill Citizens, you must kill us because with us you will not be able to do that. [[Applauds]] And I tell you more and I warn you, I always wanted to go to the Thermopiles, but don't forget what happened next to the corrupt Persian empire. We shall vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u138	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u139	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon now. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me to start with a preview because right now there are hundreds of workers from Lliçà d'Amunt de Bosch who are fighting for their jobs. We are talking about 336 jobs, 900 families and 1500 people affected simply because a German multinational, which won €19 billion in the past year, wants to move its production to Poland. So from here all the support. Bosch doesn't close. [[Showing a black shirt with the words: Dislike. Bosch.-Applause]] Imagine that they are twenty years old in a country with a youth unemployment rate of 40% and read that the priest of their people has been vaccinated before their grandmother. Imagine they're thirty years old... - Imagine first that they're from the People's Party and shut up. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ... in a country where the most prepared generation of history curates ten hours a day by putting canes to tourists for four euros an hour and read that a military chief has been vaccinated before his grandfather. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Imagine that they are forty years old in a country where the two main parties add up to 1830 charges between defendants, defendants and convicts, and read that the mayor of his people has been vaccinated before his father. Imagine that they are fifty years old in a country where the bill for light rises by 20% in the middle of the pandemic when Endesa earns 715 % more in the middle of winter and they read that a king fled to Emirates for stealing - for stealing - for forty years has been vaccinated before his mother. Imagine that they are sixty years old in a country where the multinationals disembowel older women by system and read that some girls visiting the Gulf - Persian - have been vaccinated before their sister. Imagine. Imagine all this and you will understand - you will know - why this commission of inquiry is necessary that should so much shame so many. There are many reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for understanding why public representatives must be extremely exemplary in almost any circumstances, especially in these, and above all in the left, ladies and gentlemen. The right and the right can be allowed anything; they will not stop voting. The right and the right can afford to have a treasurer handing over envelopes to presidents and ministers. You can afford it. The right and the right can afford to protect a family fingered by a killer dictator, who has been stealing forty years, who steals so much that he even steals vaccines. [[Applauds]] You can afford it, but, ladies and gentlemen, not the left. The left can't afford it. Why? Well, because people get sick of it, they get sick of it. And when the people are fed up, the thing is that they are all the same, that they are all the same. And when this gets to bars, to meters, to trains, to work centers, when all this comes, they just win them because, of course, they're all the same. Some people are asking for a captain today. There are viral videos asking for a captain - they're the same ones asking for a leader eighty years ago -, replacing a vote with a captain. Ladies and gentlemen, a people expresses its voice in an urn, in a strike, in a demonstration. A people does not need a captain; they simply need to respect what they vote for. There is an interesting debate these days to know whether Spain has a full democracy. Do you vote in Spain? Yes, you vote. Do you respect what you vote for? No, you don't respect yourself. By the way, welcome, Meritxell. Welcome, dear Meritxell. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u140	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Medel Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u141	Good afternoon. The Plural Group proposes the creation of a commission of inquiry because it considers two important problems. On the one hand, it considers that there is a traffic in influences which has enabled irregular vaccination practices, including vaccination of public officials. Every plan has its glues, there is no total security. We can design an accident-proof and stupid system, but not deliberate malice-proof. And on the other hand, there's the problem that seems to me to be most serious, the vaccination failures, because we don't have enough vaccines. What is at the heart of this issue is the lack of transparency in the European Union with regard to vaccines, and we could talk more at the heart of the nature of the European Union and whether it serves citizens or the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, because the problem is not the vaccination strategy, the problem is that there is a delay in vaccines because we do not have vaccines. Look, we fund vaccines with public money, but the patent, i.e. intellectual property, is 100% of the private company. This allows the company to fully control the process of production and distribution of vaccines despite the fact that funding is public. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry does not comply with the contracts and there are delays that endanger the lives of all and all, and this is accompanied by a total lack of transparency - we already know about the markings of the contracts -. What does the European Union say? Because the market has its rules, that in order to protect investment, patents are necessary. In fact, they come to say that if there are no patents there is no innovation, and this is absolutely false. Companies innovate to make profits, but rarely innovate to benefit people. 85% of the new medicines are not innovative, do not bring benefits, do not have added value; the only thing that brings great benefits to companies. They are now researching and producing vaccines because they have been funded and because their benefits will be spectacular. By the way, in the actual innovations of recent years 75% of the funding is public, but the European Union is otherwise of the opinion, to the point that in the statement of the General Council of 2 March now proposes that in order to expand production at global level we need greater collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry. They propose to give him more money and, yes, always intellectual property, patent, has to be maintained. Look what Big Pharma says. Mr. Dekkers, Bayer's CEO, on December 3, 2013, at a pharmaceutical industry forum in London, says: We don't create drugs for Indians, but for Western patients who can buy and pay for them. The Wyden-Grassley Report, regarding the Sovaldi, the medication for Hepatitis C says: The price is set not for what costs manufacturing or research, but for the maximum that the buyer is willing to pay. And to me, do you know what comes to mind? Look at a situation like this: the delay in the production of doses of the vaccine, could it increase the price of the vaccine? In the end you come up with that kind of situation. There are good things in the European Union and things that have done good. We must recognise that it has rightly decided to buy centrally - a non-centralised purchase would have been a real chaos - of health supplies, it decides to finance the vaccine. According to the funding of the vaccine, because for once the cooperation and the search for a social service were obvious. At the moment the question of strong public health is on the table in the European Union. There are voices in there that question the role of pharmaceutical companies, not to mention public opinion, which knows the billions that are going to be taken for profit. There are initiatives, such as the right to a cure, or initiatives by Médecins sans Frontières and the World Health Organization, which are demanding the release of patents, but we will see what happens. Scientists are also telling us that this is not going to be the only pandemic and that epidemics related to other viruses are going to come, and this is the reality that we are going to have. And I raised for the future, should the European Union finance a public industry that investigates products with real added value and has in its hands the production and distribution of those products without depending on the extortions of the Big Pharma? Of course, we're in a hurry and we don't have that public industry. The European Union, in view of this situation, should consider applying exclusion to the patentable matter standard set out in the World Trade Organization's Adpic Agreements in the case of vaccines. Perhaps, as Mrs Gorospe says, the committees will not do much, but I would like to believe that setting up this Commission as the one proposed by the Joint Group in each country can bring these fundamental things to light. I understand that we have to investigate and that people have the right to an answer for cases of irregular vaccinations, but, look, this seems very important to me, it seems vital to all of us that a Commission should serve this purpose, it seems to me a good idea. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u142	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, VOX agrees with the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into the implementation of the vaccination plan in accordance with the COVID-19 vaccination strategy carried out by the Ministry of Health, provided that, first, each planned point is analysed and, second, the degree of compliance with the strategy is assessed and, where appropriate, the legal responsibilities that may have occurred are cleared. But we do not have much confidence in commissions of inquiry, especially when this commission of inquiry has been received with such joy and excitement by the government parties. [[Applauds]] What we do believe is that the best Commission of Inquiry for everything that has happened in the epidemic is going to happen, if there is justice in this world, in a court of inquiry. [[Applauds]] Of course, this would have to be done once vaccination has been completed, and it has just begun; only 10% of the estimated population has been vaccinated before the summer, after nine weeks from the beginning of the summer, and we have doubts that this government will ever be able to complete the vaccination. At this time we are more concerned, one, the lack of control over the entry of new variants of coronavirus across our borders; two, the lack of sequencing in groups of patients who have a different course of the disease. Three, which does not envisage extending the molecular tests that we have to adapt to the new variants and that with the current tests they escape diagnosis and continue to spread. We are also concerned about the lack of vaccines, as well as the unequal distribution of existing vaccines, and that with the lack of provision we suffer, they do not provide for comprehensive care of their transport and conservation upon arrival at their destination, leading to lots that are very necessary for us to spoil or lapse. [[Applauds]] We are also concerned that in two months only 1.7 million Spaniards have been vaccinated. At this rate, in order to immunize 47 million Spaniards who are - do the calculation - we will finish immunizing ourselves in at least two years, and that if we don't have to revaccinate all if we finally become a seasonal virus that needs annual revaccination and adapt the vaccine to the variants that are appearing. We are concerned that this social-communist government, which sins of having a complete lack of vision of the future, except for propaganda to remain stuck to its command and command armchairs in the purest and purest style of military dictatorship, and that it disguises itself as a Democrat, does not make a personalized plan for vaccination for our country and ceases to compare itself with other countries where the disease has become less common among the population thanks to smarter leaders. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] We are also concerned that the Government is not coming and bidding more aggressively on international vaccine markets and that it does not allow the private sector to buy directly and participate in vaccination. It will be so that they do not demonstrate their incompetence, the incompetence of the Government. We are also concerned that they give hundreds of millions of euros to ideological chiringuitos, instead of turning them into the vaccination programme in which we all live, let's think about what we think and vote for what we vote for. We are also concerned about the difference in the distribution of vaccines among the autonomous communities and that the same strict criterion is not followed at any point in the national territory, creating territorial inequalities when the coronavirus does not distinguish between places of residence. Finally, we are concerned about such absurd situations as, for example, the vaccination of groups with an essential function for the community, such as groups 6A, B and C, in which differentiation is to be made between children under the age of fifty-five years, who will be vaccinated with vaccines such as AstraZeneca and will be made shortly, and those over the age of fifty-five years, who will be vaccinated with messenger RNA vaccines and who will do so when they are of age, without specifying the time, giving the circumstance that, for example, in one institute, some teachers will be vaccinated and others will not, and so will create a huge inequality in terms of working risks that do not fit in any head, since everyone has the same right to be protected. Either everyone or none, because in this way serious discrimination is created. In short, we are concerned about the lack of diligence and desirousness, I repeat, the lack of diligence and desirousness, and that the Government has subordinated itself to the European Union in this calvary that we are experiencing and that it does not take independent decisions in the margin that does not cover the Union. Undoubtedly, when the efforts to protect citizens of the coronavirus are more advanced, we will be more in agreement to participate in the proceedings that concern the parliamentary groups that defend this initiative and also when it gives of itself what it has to give a document that the government... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u144	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a year ago today, the World Health Organization declared COVID a global pandemic. Since then, nearly 100,000 compatriots have lost their lives. After several waves in which the Government has been completely absent, the consequences are incalculable and the economy has been decimated. The Spanish do know that the paralyzed Government did not anticipate; that the national security mechanisms did not work; that the recommendations of the World Health Organization were denied; that crucial weeks were lost; that massive demonstrations that spread the disease were encouraged; that gravity was deliberately concealed; that no response was prepared; that protection material was not stored to distribute from the outset and even here was discouraged; that there was no strategy in advance of testing, tracing and isolation; that the acquisition of equipment was a real chaos; that the actual number of dead and affected persons has been hidden - and that the importance of new strains of viruses has even been marginalized. All this is the result of irresponsible improvisation and lack of transparency and some of its results are already known. The difference in affected and deceased in some countries is up to a hundred times lower than in Spain. In the field of vaccines, what we know does not offer any confidence either. Vaccination quickly and massively is the most effective formula to combat this pandemic. Following the success of the pharmaceutical industry and the public-private collaboration in research, manufacture and deployment of safe and effective vaccines in an absolutely record time, the Spanish Government has again shown unequivocal negligence and incompetence. After distributing at the end of last year a vaccination strategy document that has already had to be reformed up to four times, it has been removed from the middle, and instead of leading and designing a national vaccination plan, as in all developed countries in our environment, it has been removed from the middle by allowing seventeen different plans and generating inequalities, inequalities and uncoordinatedness. The dramatic lack of vaccines has been compounded by logistical chaos, problems of syringes and vials and significant differences in dose distribution, in times of administration and even in priority phases and groups, with the logical indignation of a Spanish society that wants to be vaccinated and cannot. If the European Union has been responsible for authorising and agreeing vaccines and the autonomous communities have done the same in logistics and administration, what is the use of the government, ladies and gentlemen? Where's the national vaccination plan? Where is the national vaccination authority? Where is the vaccination schedule for all Spaniards? Where is the plan to know what vaccine and when will each Spanish be put? What day does the priority group phase change? When is it expected that each Spaniard will have access to the vaccine? What national studies are being conducted on the side effects or adverse effects and the outcome of national immunization? Where is the poaching by several ministers of the Spanish vaccine? How are they going to keep their promise to reach the summer having vaccinated 70% of the Spanish population to save the summer campaign? How will they do that if two and a half months have passed since 27 December and they have put up 7% of the necessary vaccines? By 21 June, there are three more months left and 93% of people left to be vaccinated. How are they going to do it? Are you aware that, at this rate of turtle, there are people who could not be vaccinated until next year? Do you know what this improvisation costs in life and in affectation, how many people would have saved themselves if they had done their job right? They did not write this, ladies and gentlemen, in the first box of XXL vaccines that arrived in Spain. Do you know that the appearance of new strains can alter the effectiveness of those that are being put at this time? Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to investigate all these extremes; my group has proposed this on several occasions. The Government and its partners have prevented it, including the proponents of this initiative. But it will be done, don't have the slightest doubt. Today, fifteen years ago, there were 193 deaths on 11 March. Two months later, a Commission of Inquiry was set up in this Parliament as it was set up, with 154 dead, because of the Spanair accident. Today we have about 100,000 dead and this Commission will do, have no doubt. [[Applauds]] There are five hundred times as many deaths as in those previous commissions of inquiry. In the meantime, we will vote on today's vote. Mr. Baldoví, are you interested in investigating people who have been properly vaccinated and pharmaceuticals? Mr Quevedo, don't you care what worries all Spaniards most right now? Where's your social discourse? Ladies and gentlemen, we have called for an extension of the Commission's purpose so that it can analyse in its entirety the most valuable instrument we have at the moment to recover our lives and to recover our society, as all Spaniards ask us to do. We are - most importantly - in time to correct many of the ravages that this pandemic is causing. We need to restore confidence and fight skepticism for how much the Government has lied to them. Only the learning nations can move forward, because nothing can be concluded from what has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, if democracy means something, it means accountability to social scrutiny, if it means something, it means transparency. A democracy cannot allow the resistance of the Government to assume its responsibility and to account for simply controlling the unfavorable political narrative, covering its recklessness and negligence. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The Spaniards deserve to know the truth, and they will have it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u146	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u147	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin at the end, namely by announcing our vote in favour of the request for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry proposed here. But this is not an obstacle for the Socialist Group to wish to make a number of considerations about the purpose of this Commission, especially since a very distorted picture of the objective reality shown by the facts could be transferred from the explanatory statement itself. There is a phrase I read many years ago that I was recorded, and it is this: if you seek evil in humanity hoping to find it you will surely find it. It is a very certain phrase for any kind of process. If we search - I repeat - in any process, also in each one's life, mistakes, disagreements, failures, we will surely find them. And that process of searching, research and analysis of errors does not in itself contain any negative connotation; it is more, it can and must become a healthy exercise, unless we stay there. Why? Because a Commission of Inquiry that focuses only on the negative is a distorted, and therefore false, image of processes that must be considered as a whole. Thus, the explanatory statement indicates that this Commission is necessary before - and I quote textually - multiple irregularities, failures and delays, scandals, missed doses, foresight and management failures, uncontrollability, insolidity between citizens and also between political positions, traffic in influence, and could continue with more qualifications of this kind. In short, the description of a landscape of chaos and evil that I think is in no way compatible with a reality that, honestly, I think deserves to be qualified from a summary of unprecedented good practices in the history of our country. Good practices in the behaviour of an overwhelming majority of citizens; good practices in the exemplary responses of those groups that were on the front line; good practices in science, which achieved in record time effective vaccines; good practices of the European Union, with economic funds that allow for progress in reconstruction; good practices in co-governance between the central Government and the various autonomous communities; good practices in dialogue between the various administrations involved; good practices in transparency with which the whole process was lived and with which the Presidency of the Government and the Ministry of Health were its best exponents. And from this firm commitment to the transparency of the Government is also our affirmative vote towards the creation of this Commission. We could continue with the relationship of this chain of good practices, but let me now provide some data on the vaccination process that began, as you know, in our country - and despite the bad wishes of some politicians, for example Mr Feijóo - on Sunday 27 December last. I'm not going to bore you with figures that are public. I will confine myself to highlighting a fact that seems important to me, the activity report of Monday, 15 February, showed that 456,000 doses had been given in the previous week. In the report last Monday, 8 March, it was possible to see how the doses of the previous week were 882,000 in round numbers. I mean, a month ago, 450,000 doses were given per week, now we're almost 900,000, that is, in less than a month, we've been able to double the number of vaccines given. By the way, the imminent approval by the European Medicines Agency of new vaccines will only improve these figures. Let me return to the chain of good practices because one of them, and very important, has been the strategy of communication and of building confidence and hope in the vaccines before studies that alerted a certain reluctance of a part of the population. This communication strategy has been incorporated into the COVID-19 vaccination strategy since the first document in December 2020. Indeed, a document participated by the General Administration of the State, by the autonomous communities, by the Bioethics Committee, by scientific societies, professional colleges, professional and patient associations, among other actors. These efforts are already bearing fruit, given the growing acceptance of the citizenry in the vaccine as a solid and scientific solution. We must also highlight the European Union's strategy for the joint purchase of vaccines. Collaboration has made us stronger and the only danger would be that Europe's unity would be broken. No doubt more Europe makes us stronger. Having said that, we will not deny that there have also been errors in the management of COVID-19, especially when decision-making has always been concurrent with the learning that science was receiving and was transmitting to us about the virus, something that is not a justification, but the finding of a harsh, complex and difficult reality. And, of course, there will also be errors in the vaccination process. And yes, we have to analyse and evaluate them so that they are not repeated, also understanding that the object of the requested Commission involves investigating behaviours for which the competent administration is the autonomous one or, for example, in the case of vaccine contracts, the European Commission. We are especially aware of the social discredit, of the social alarm caused by certain people, for example, some political positions, bishops, president's delegates, who have accessed off-duty vaccines. And we also know of the behaviour of political leaders who have reproached everything that is reprehensible and acted accordingly, but also of political leaders who have preferred to try to excuse the inexcusable, when not to justify the unjustifiable. Feijóo is also a great example. But the truth is that of the nearly five million people who have already received at least one dose of the vaccine, five million people, we are talking about marginal elements that cannot and should not contaminate the success of this vaccination process. In short, ladies and gentlemen, yes to the Committee of Inquiry, yes to light and stenographers, but that the trees do not prevent us from seeing the forest. That's all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to cast the vote on the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. In addition, I ask that those who have not done so should leave the Chamber, please. We now proceed to vote on non-legislative proposals. No bill by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on improving the care and promotion of the health and emotional well-being of young people. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal, and the Mixed Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 247; in favour, 36 plus 121 telematics votes, 157; against 68 plus 114 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u150	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected. - THE EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PLURILING REALITY AND LANGUAGE EQUALITY. [[File number 162/000471]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u151	No law proposed by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on multilingual reality and linguistic equality. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248; in favour, 13 plus 62 telematics votes, 75; against 91 plus 181 telematics votes, 272; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u152	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248; in favour, 12 plus 61 telematics votes, 73; against 92 plus 181 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u153	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248; 68 plus 126 telematics votes, 194; against 36 plus 117 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u154	It was therefore adopted. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248; in favour, 12 plus 61 telematics votes, 73; against 92 plus 181 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u155	Consequently, it is rejected. Point number six. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248; in favour, 12 plus 61 telematics votes, 73; against 92 plus 181 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u156	Consequently, point 6 is rejected. Point number seven. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 68 plus 125 telematics votes, 193; against, 36 plus 117 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u157	Point 7 was therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 103 plus 187 telematics votes, 290; against, 1 plus 55 telematics votes, 56; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u158	Point 8 was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u159	We now proceed to vote on the motions as a result of urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion following urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the draft order of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to include all populations of Iberian wolf in the List of Special Protection Species following the recent decision of the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity with the rejection of the affected autonomous communities, as well as its serious repercussions on a very important part of the livestock sector of the territories north of the Duero. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Mixed Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 36 plus 107 telematics votes, 143; against, 68 plus 98 telematics votes, 166; abstentions, 38 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u160	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE REDUCTION OF THE COST OF ELECTRIC FACTURATION OF THE ECONOMIC SECTORS MOST AFFECTED BY THE CIVID-19 CRISIS AND THESE WITH HIGH STATIONALITY AS AGRICULTURE AND TOURISM. [[File number 173/000055]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u161	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures taken by the Government to reduce the cost of electricity bills for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis in COVID-19 and those with high seasonality such as agriculture and tourism. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 68 plus 181 telematics votes, 249; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 37 plus 61 telematics votes, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u162	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE SITUATION OF WOMEN IN SPAIN AT A YEAR OF THE CREATION OF THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY. [[File number 173/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u163	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the situation of women in Spain at the one-year anniversary of the creation of the Ministry of Equality. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 36 plus 65 telematics votes, 101; against, 68 plus 126 telematics votes, 194; abstentions, 53 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u164	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u165	We are moving to the point of committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an Organic Act repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. We are voting in the first place on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; 69 plus 121 telematics votes, 190; against 35 plus 114 telematics votes, 149; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u166	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u167	The general vote is then taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 68 plus 121 telematics votes, 189; against, 36 plus 115 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u168	Accordingly, the proposed Organic Act repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code was approved. [[Applauds]] - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LEGAL REGIME APPLICABLE TO THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE JUDICIAL POWER IN FUNCTIONS. [[File number 122/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u169	Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judicial Power for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judicial Power in office. We are voting in the first place on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; 69 plus 126 telematics votes, 195; against 35 plus 116 telematics votes, 151; abstentions, 1 telematics vote, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u170	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u171	Finally, the overall vote is taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; 68 plus 128 telematics votes, 196; against 36 plus 114 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u172	Accordingly, the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary is approved for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u173	We moved on to the Senate's amendment point. Draft law on urgent measures for the protection and assistance of victims of gender-based violence, derived from Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 243 telematics votes, 347; 104 plus 193 telematics votes, 297; against 50 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u174	The amendments were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u175	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. It corresponds to case numbers 120/000018 of the XII Legislature and 120/000005 of the XIII Legislature. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. Submitted by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 242 telematics votes, 346; 1 plus 33 telematics votes, 34; 103 plus 205 telematics votes, 308; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u176	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. - DRAFT CONSUMER AND USER PROTECTION LAW CONCERNING SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC VULNERABILITY SITUATIONS [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2021 OF 19 JANUARY]] [[File number 121/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u177	Bill to protect consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability. Proceeding from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the draft law on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability arising from Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 plus 242 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 115 telematics votes, 251; against, 68 plus 122 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u178	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u179	Finally, the point of request for the establishment of commissions of inquiry. Request of the parliamentary groups Plural and Mixto to set up a commission of inquiry concerning the management of vaccines and the vaccination plan in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 242 telematics, 346; in favour, 104 plus 181 telematics, 285; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 60 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-11-CD210311.u180	Accordingly, the establishment of the said Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was four and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
