ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u2	Mr. Sánchez, this Lent is getting too long for you. If there were processions, you would have to go out of penitent with your candidate in Galicia, in the Basque Country, in Murcia, in the Community of Madrid, in Castile and León and even, from Friday, with your candidate in Catalonia. Not all the incense of his propaganda is able to cover up his failures. He shot the People's Party to put an end to his only alternative, which is already stepping on his heels, and the shot came out of his ass. Three attempts to attack us with motion of censure, three stupendous failures you have reaped. I imagine that the person who makes the political strategy is the same as the coronavirus expert committee. Because, look, if it's irresponsible to destabilize governments with lies, it's immoral to do so in the middle of the pandemic, with 200 deaths every day and 6 million unemployed. [[Applauds]] By the way, three other reports have been published - from the Bank of Spain, the IMF and the OECD - in a few days and three other failures in their management of vaccines, recovery and European funds. Do you think Spain is going to play Monopoly with the institutions? What stability do you bring? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Married, a little modesty. [[Laughter]] A little modesty, Your Honor. Do you look in the mirror after listening? You speak here, Your Honor, of the weaknesses of the Government of Spain, of how bad the Government of Spain works Let us talk about that, Your Honor, let us talk about how this Government legislates, how it transforms Spain and how Spain progresses. [[Several Members: Yes!]] And let's talk about your governments, Your Honor, because you teach them lessons about what? They teach that in Murcia they support the Government on the basis of corruption and transfuguism. [[Applauds]] In Castile and León, what they do, Your Honor, is lose the parliamentary majority and fall into the arms of the far right. And in Madrid, Your Honor, what they do is unilaterally break your government with your citizens' partners and provoke an early and irresponsible election, Mr Casado. [[Rumors]] Look, stability arises and is built through cross-cutting agreements that go beyond the ideological space that one represents, and this Government, for more than twelve months, has done so by adopting new General State Budgets; what it has done has been by adopting seven agreements with social actors; what it has done is by proposing to the General Courts more than fourteen draft organic laws; what it has done has been by validating more than forty real decree-laws that have given answers to the unprecedented health, economic and social emergency in the history of our country, Your Honor. And what do you do? Look, yesterday I heard him say he was laughing at him - he was literally saying it, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Married - when he heard that the People's Party had no plan. Indeed, Mr. Married, it is not that it laughs, it is sad to see the People's Party led by you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u6	But, Mr. Sanchez, have you looked at your blue bench? But if you have the party of the accused vice president of the government, who has not known how many convicted for police aggression; you have three ministers of the ERE - Mr Planas, Mrs Calvo, Mrs Montero - the biggest corruption case in history! You have Mrs. Rivera with the Isophoton case! You have Mr. Ábalos with the second Delcygate already, we are already at the Plus Ultra, after what he did with the vice president of the Maduro regime! The secretary general of the Socialist Party of Murcia is accused! [[Applauds]] They have recognized the Members of the Madrid Citizens' Party who came to the Madrid Assembly with three motions of censure, and you come here with that arrogance to fool us? At the very least, acknowledge that you tried everything. And as I was saying, in the end - as it is said in my land - who goes for wool then ends up being torn, as has happened to you. Look, since he talks about scandals and because he has his vice president there - for now - who explains, for example - if he decides to return from Vallecas twice and perhaps to keep the seat, although he has to resign as vice president - what is this about moving from 'expropie' to 'incarcerated'. Maybe the subconscious betrays you because you're the one who has open court cases. And to explain what Mrs Montero said about women: That in Madrid there is fear for women? And does the government say this about the guaranteed success of the state attorney general in a prostitution plot? Does the government say that it has hidden cases of extortion and abuse of minors in Valencia and the Balearic Islands? Does the government say this about ERE money spent on brothels? Mr. Sanchez, lessons in identity and integrity, you, not one. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u8	How are you, Mr. Married, staying at ease? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Yes!-Laughter and applause]] On Wednesdays, he comes here, throws his perrata at us, insults us, disqualifies us... Look, the problem is not you, the problem is your Members, because you say those things, you insult in such a way, that in the end, your Members, you free bar! That is why we have heard a Member of the People's Party disqualify Mr Errejón on a subject as sensitive to society as it is to mental health, and that is why we have heard a Member of the People's Party insulting the Minister of Labour. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you adopt rules of urbanity and respect and, secondly, you exercise an opposition that is an alternative, Mr Casado, with a sense of state, with loyalty not to this government, but to the country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO GUARANTEE EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT MANAGEMENT OF EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/00475]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u9	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u10	Mr Sánchez, how do you intend to ensure that your Government manages European funds efficiently?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you know how I - we share this - that this is a democracy, a great democracy, we have a series of controls and counterweights that will effectively ensure that effective, transparent and exemplary management of funds that will change Spain for good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u13	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u14	Mr Sánchez, I am not concerned about the quality of our democracy, I am concerned about the quality of this government. Look, the health and economic situation in Spain is dramatic, but obviously there is hope, there is hope in health, in vaccination, so you cannot allow Spain to stay in line or to steal or to lose vaccines. But in economic terms we also have hope, and that is a good investment from European funds. Europe has been up to it: thanks to a great deal of agreement between liberals, conservatives and social democrats we have an unprecedented mobilization of resources to finance investments that modernise our economy. Now is the time when more seriousness and more solvency must show Spain as a country to its European partners, and, frankly, its government cannot do any worse. First, by supporting - thanks to the help of VOX - a royal decree without feet or head that shields them to distribute the funds from Moncloa, with complete discretion, without transparency and without independent evaluation agency. But these days we have discovered another scandal, the scandal of the Plus Ultra company, which has cost us all Spanish 53 million euros -53- from SEPI's fund for supposedly strategic companies. I ask you: what is strategic about an airline with four destinations, with a market share of less than 0,1 %, with losses since it was created - long before the COVID - and is not even among the top thirty airlines in Spain? Who's behind this company? Who authorized this operation? They will not be able to continue hiding, we have taken him to Europe and we also demand the appearance of Mr Ábalos, Mrs María Jesús Montero and Mrs Calviño, because we want to know what is behind this operation that has neither feet nor head. What do you think the Spanish and our European partners think when they see you squandering public money like this? And this is what they do with the SEPI fund, but what are they going to do with the European funds? Is this going to be the M.O.? Is the model of spending and investment going to be the Plus Ultra model? The European funds are not to help your government or your party, they are to help the Spaniards and their distribution cannot be done to finger from Moncloa. We've told him many times. Correct, because the image of Spain and the future of the Spanish are at stake. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u16	Thank you, Madam President. After the rally, I'm going to explain exactly what we're going to do to control those funds. Firstly, I will tell you about the award of projects and, secondly, about the control over them. With regard to the selection, I would like to inform you that all the projects in the Recovery Plan are to be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, the Grants Act, in response to open, transparent, competitive and non-discriminatory tenders or invitations to tender. They will be organized by the ministerial departments, by state agencies and also by the autonomous governments and local authorities, following the transfer of these funds by the Government of Spain. Secondly, in relation to control, we will do so through two mechanisms. First, it will be in the hands of the General Intervention of the State Administration, i.e. the IGAE. It has been designated as the authority responsible for carrying out the audit of the funds required by European law, assuming the coordination of the controls of state, autonomous or local bodies. I must also say, Sir, that this has been welcomed by the European Commission. Secondly, the Government has established a rigorous system of controls and audits, already validated by the European Commission. The National Anti-Fraud Coordination Service will be the body responsible for protecting the financial interests of the European Union, in collaboration with nothing less than the European Anti-Fraud Office. In short, Your Honor, transparency, exemplaryness, efficiency and transformation, renewal and modernization of our economy, recovery, in short, and all this with controls due to a great democracy such as Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES IT LOOK TO YOU THAT IN A HEALTH SITUATION AS WE FIND OUT INTERNATIONAL WIDE TRAVEL IS JUSTIFIED? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00477]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u17	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u18	Good morning. Do you think that in a health situation such as that in which we find ourselves, international leisure travel is justified?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it does not seem reasonable to me, as it does not seem reasonable to any competent authority. In what way do I mean it? In the sense that we are moving all the citizens of Spain to stay in their homes. Precisely, the agreement that has been reached in the interterritorial between all the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health, what it says is that, please, the Spaniards stay at home and do not move from their provinces. From there, Your Honor, what I can assure you is that the Government of Spain, as it has always been throughout this pandemic, is a policy in response to COVID consistent and consistent with the recommendations of the European Commission and the health authority at Community level. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u21	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u22	Yes, President, but look what I asked you about international travel. The way in which the whole of this is being managed causes perplexity and feelings of discrimination between citizens, which can lead to frustration. The health authorities are asking us for one last effort in the face of Holy Week. It is called on not to travel, there is a perimeter closure with which my group absolutely agrees, but in the meantime French, German and Italians camp to their wide in Madrid, Barcelona or Donostia, for leisure, as they say, to enjoy the freedom they do not have in their countries of origin. While France is closing the border - it is difficult to pass, even for those who, living on this side, work on the other side -, while Paris is closed and Germany closes Berlin and announces an extreme confinement for Holy Week, its citizens continue to arrive on charter flights, one after another. Mrs Maroto, in line with Dr Simon, says that it can actually be controlled at airports. For I tell you that it is not controlled at airports, because I am seeing it every day; in Barajas they don't even ask you for the boarding card, I don't tell you anymore at other airports and I don't tell you anymore if they travel on flights with connections. But the Balearic Government has also said so. Two days ago his spokesman asked him to control the entrance of these people one by one because it is not being done. Let's see if this border relaxation policy is going to be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. What I am asking you to do is to take coherent measures both internally and externally. He says so all the way to Brussels. It is the way that there is credibility and that there is no frustration, that there is conviction in the citizenry to comply with the rules. It is not time to encourage, facilitate or applaud mobility for internal and non-external leisure. And ask their European partners for consistency, because it seems that there is concern about this but no country makes decisions and, look, the European Council is going to be telematically done in a period of border relaxation. What incoherence! The health authorities are asking us for a final effort to avoid a new wave, but I believe that this should be promoted by the citizens and should also be backed up by the institutions with consistency and without frustration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u24	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Firstly, I have to say that this is not a new debate, it is a debate that we have been dragging from the beginning of the pandemic and the reopening of borders. Spain has followed the recommendations of the European Commission, which have been, for example, to keep borders open for intra-Community travel avoiding non-essential travel; in fact, you remember that the European Commission has already said that border closure does not guarantee the spread of the virus; this was said a few months ago. What we have to do is apply controls - the European Commission tells us - to ensure that there will be no imports of cases and respecting the recommendations of the place of destination, and that is what Spain is doing, Your Honor. We keep the borders of the European Union open, we demand PCR 72 hours earlier - and you know it, Mr Esteban - and what we are also doing is that those French or German who come to Spain have the same restrictions as the rest of the compatriots. That is the first recommendation. Secondly, the European Commission recommended that the regions of each country should be colored with these lights according to the degree of incidence of COVID. Remember also, Your Honor, that at first were the countries, today are the territories waves regions, that's something I understand that a nationalist group like yours will be interested in, and that's what Spain is doing, Your Honor. Today, the regions with the lowest incidence, such as the Balearic Islands, Extremadura, Cantabria, Murcia and Navarre, have logically a lower level of incidence and therefore a lower level of restrictions. Thirdly, the Commission recommended that each country take measures to prevent contagion within its territory, and that is what we are doing thanks to co-governance and the agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities. Your Honor, these are complicated times, but, as you have said, we are already in the last phase of the pandemic. With vaccination and also with recovery funds we lined up a year that will be the year of recovery and overcoming the pandemic. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: THINKS THE SECOND Vice-President LEAVES HIS ACT OF DEPUTATE WHEN HE IS DECIDED? [[File number 180/00467]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u25	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, when you talk about corruption, look at your secretary general in Murcia, who is charged with prevarication. Mr. Iglesias, when you go to run an election campaign in your old neighborhood of Vallecas, how do you think the neighbors will welcome you? Are you going to explain to them again that what really is dangerous is the role of politicians living in chalets, that it is immoral to buy a house worth more than 600 000 euros or that politicians should take public transport? I wanted to give you some ideas for your election campaign this morning. For example, to those who manage to buy a house with a lot of effort, talk to them about how to protect the Okupas; to those who strive to get a job, explain the plugs and the rotating doors you have done in your ministry; to those who fight for a job, describe how their advisors have arrived where they are; to the self-employed and entrepreneurs do not tell them anything because they do not expect anything from you, from those who do not care, and to those of the minimum living income, take advantage to ask them for forgiveness because they have not received the minimum living income; to the elderly, again tell them that they will continue to take care of you as before, to the Madridians, yes, tell them what they have been saying for months: that they are going to raise taxes to all the Madridns, and to those who are one step away from the bench, to clarify why you are still hanging. [[laughs]] Therefore, I give you advice for your credibility, so that someone believes in your supposed fight against privileges: I ask you to preach with the example, to resign today as vice president, to resign as deputy and to present yourself to the elections as a citizen on foot, without suffering and without privileges. Will you do that? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u27	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the answer is yes, I will resign as a Member before even as a Vice-President. We're not like you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u29	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u30	For you have the opportunity to leave that bank, go to the register and register your resignation, and everything else will be chatter. And he also announced that we will register a commission of inquiry to investigate the Plus Ultra case, a scandalous case in relation to relations with other countries, which you know well, to know if the money that the Spanish state is backing and paying to the Plus Ultra airline will end up in Podemos's accounts. Mr. Iglesias, the same is expected of your electoral programme as of your fourteen months of government, that is, nothing. Why didn't you tell the Madriders a few months ago, that here you pay few taxes and that you have to raise them? In addition, I, Mr. Iglesias, want to give you a first: you will end up at the Gate of the Sun, but at the Square of the Gate of the Sun, from where you can enjoy how the People's Party does great things. The Sanchez effect allowed the Gallego Nationalist Mouth to overcome the Socialist Party; the Illa effect allowed or will allow a government of independenceists, and now the Church effect will allow you to have the free days to settle in the Sun Gate to see how the People's Party governs. Don Pablo, I want to tell you that it has been a pleasure to discuss with you, but so much peace takes as rest leaves. [[Laughs and applause.- Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u31	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Don Teodoro, I thank you for your immense and exquisite parliamentary courtesy. There's something that really draws my attention. You say you are going to win the elections in Madrid, but you don't talk about anything else: what makes it sense that in a government control session you just talk about Madrid, give me advice on the election campaign in Madrid, tell me that the Gate of the Sun, that the People's Party...? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u34	Do you know what's going on? What happens is that you are not so sure that you will continue to rule in Madrid, because, in fact, Madrid is just as little as you have left. You know that you are not going back to the Council of Ministers and your project is to get stuck in Madrid. A general secretary of her party, María Dolores de Cospedal, said that the Madrid People's Party was the essential core of keeping the People's Party alive at the national level, among other things, because one of the main sources of illegal funding for her party was, precisely, Madrid. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, the twenty-six years of domination of the People's Party in Madrid have to do with two frauds; the first, a fraud to democracy, when you bought two members of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] The second, with a fraud to the public coffers, which caused you to go to all the elections by illegally financing, competing and cheating. And now you are again boasting of sizes and buying deputies. For that has to be done, and I make an announcement to you: we are going to file a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office against you in the next few hours for the crime of conspiracy, because it's good enough for corrupt people, it's good enough to buy deputies, it's good enough for impunity, Your Honor. See you soon. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u35	Quiet, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WILL YOU BE A 'DESETABLE FACTOR' OF THE GOVERNMENT OF COALITION A WAY OUT OF THE SAME? [[File number 180/00462]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u36	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iglesias, for it seems - it seems - that your stage ends at the head of the Vice-Presidentship of this Government, but what does not seem to be that you leave a legacy of dismay. Not many people are very sad about his march; not many people seem to miss him. It is clear that the President of the Government is not one of the most likely to miss you; you leave five minutes before you are thrown out. It also seems that the coalition government that you want to ride with your former compañeros in Madrid is not going to be possible, because neither do their ex compañeros want you. Mr. Gabilondo does not seem to be very fond of you either, because he says that he does not want to approach; Mr. Errejón neither; some of the other comrades, to whom you have been running as a good Stalinist, do not have much affection. So I'm afraid the people of Madrid don't have a lot of affection for you either, and I don't wish you any great success in these elections. But if it's true that you leave the seat and it's true that you leave the Vice President, the doubt is what are you going to do next, set the streets on fire again? Are you going to be a destabilizing factor in the coalition government once you get out of it?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u38	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your question. On the contrary, it is precisely by governing in the Community of Madrid that a draft state and a draft country will be consolidated, which will have to assume the modernization of Spain, which you, the ultras and their right-wing allies, want to curb. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u40	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u41	Thank you very much. I see that you abandon yourself by maintaining the grudge that has characterized you so far, but from now on what will identify you, in addition to the grudge, is failure, because you have been nothing but a disappointment and a failure for your own. You came to storm the heavens, but you really go away with a real failure. When you appeared in politics you awakened the illusion of many people, of well-intentioned people who believed in you, that you were never expected to charge more than three minimum wages, that you would never become chaste, that you would never leave your neighborhood; people who really believed that you had some kind of capacity to improve the lives of others. But, as always with communists, the only life that has improved you is yours; that is very typical of communist leaders. Your Honor, Spain is much worse than when you arrived. You only leave a legacy of death in the homes of the elderly, of devastated streets, of burnt containers, of broken glass, of radicalization and degradation of Spanish politics. Nothing you leave is beautiful, everything is ugly; nothing you have done has been constructive, it has been absolutely destructive. Everything in his legacy is sad, everything in his legacy is disappointing. Look, when you leave, you don't even need to close the door when you leave, because we already know you're going to come back to this house soon, so please, yes, leave as soon as possible because Spain will thank you. But if you allow me a suggestion - yasabe, the enemy, the council -, do not go back to the neighborhoods I used to talk about so much, do not go back to those neighborhoods that believed in you because they already know you for real, and I tell you that in those neighborhoods you are not going to be very welcome. They don't even want you there anymore, so it's your failure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u42	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your kind advice and kind words. He told his partner that the People's Party plays a lot in the Madrid elections, they play it all. You even play more, because you give yourself a paradoxical situation, and it's that your candidate is running for another game, and that's certainly something that puts you in a complicated situation. [[Rumors]] But in addition to that, Your Honor, the governments of the Madrid People's Party are the condition of possibility that you exist. If it had not been for the protection of those governments, you could not have been a real estate developer. If it had not been for those Governments, you would not have survived doing illegal works at home and being convicted of not paying the workers who did such works. [[Applauds]] You couldn't have survived the shame and scandal of selling three luxury apartments on industrial land. If it weren't for the People's Party government at Madrid City Hall, they would have illegalized your house, Your Honor. If it were not for the governments of the People's Party, Your Honor, your candidate in Madrid would not have been able to sign architectural projects without a bachelor's degree in Architecture. What worries you is that, perhaps, from May 4th, you run out of cabbage. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]] - OF THE DEVELOPED VICTOR GONZALEZ COELLO DE PORTUGAL, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR VICESIDENT FOURTH MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WILL YOU LET THE GOVERNMENT LOSE THE SPANISH CONTROL ON A ENERGY ENERGY AS NATURGY? [[File number 180/00453]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u44	Questions to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Víctor González Coello from Portugal, from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u45	I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u46	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u47	Thank you very much. I understand you're asking me about the OPA about a Spanish energy company.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u48	Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u49	Minister, my group hopes that your government will act with the same diligence to veto the entrance... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u51	...of the Australian IMF fund in the social capital of Naturg and with which it has done so to help companies whose strategic character is a real fiction. In addition, I would like to remind you that, in order to avoid this type of action, you approved the Royal Decree allowing the Government to paralyse foreign investment in both Community and non-Community companies operating in essential sectors. Energy is a critical asset, a basic input for the national economy and for the security of our country. The energy mix in the short, medium and long term in Spain, Europe and the world passes through natural gas. Spain has unique infrastructures in Europe. Naturgy accounts for more than 50% of the Spanish natural gas, in particular 69% of the distribution, and is the third electric operator. With Endesa owned by the Italian State and Iberdrola without a relevant Spanish presence in its shareholdership, the control of Naturgy by foreign investors carries a huge risk for Spain. In addition, Minister, the partial OPA on Naturg Y launched by MFI has all the characteristics of a concerted action with the other two funds, GIP and CVC, which already control 40% of the company; none of these financial investors have an industrial project. This means that its goal of controlling Naturg and it is only one: to sell it in pieces, which means getting rid - it is not known for who - of basic strategic assets such as, for example, the gas supply contract with Angola. In conclusion, Spain needs strong Spanish groups in the essential sectors. It would be irresponsible and contrary to the general interest for the government to authorize the MFI OPA. That is why he asked you today in this House to cast any doubt on the government's intentions on this issue, and I hope it does not occur to me that such a decision scares away foreign investment. That is why you are already making sufficient efforts. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u52	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u53	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your thoughts and comments. Indeed, energy is enormously important in the economy, in industry and, of course, in the comfort of our homes. I will tell you that it would be irresponsible on my part to prejudge what the technical teams of different ministries are analysing in order to be able to make a decision on this, in fact, by applying the rules you have indicated. I would also tell you that, as Professor Emilio Ontiveros pointed out this weekend in El País, Spain along with Sweden, are the only two countries with advanced economies that have maintained a strong attraction for foreign investment flows in recent years, including in the Spanish case, thanks to security, tranquillity and perspective, interest in the energy field; direct investment flows that are good news and criterion of appreciation of the good state of the economy and the solvency of this country, despite what you are committed to doing. I would like to share with you the fact that, as I said, energy is systemic, essential that it works and is well regulated. For this reason, it has an enormously detailed regulatory framework that we have updated, which we have offered with a future perspective, with more than fifty modifications in the last two years that give perspective, journey; a journey that makes today a sector that works in a stable and predictable conversion, that seeks the permanence of investors, the transformation in the modernization of each of the sources and the industrial vocation in its shareholders. This means that many of the elements of permanence, stability and industrial vocation are part of the criteria to be taken into account when making decisions in a market economy; a market economy in which regulated activities are controlled by law; and a market economy in which we seek to ensure that investor confidence, stability and consumer interest, and, as you say, stable groups with industrial vocation and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FORTY-FOURTH MINISTRY FOR THE TRANSITION
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u55	Question by Mr Iñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, what plans does the Government of Spain have to deal with climate change?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u57	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u58	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Spanish Government - as I believe the vast majority of Spaniards and trust that the vast majority of the members of this House - seeks the full decarbonisation of our economy as soon as possible and never after 2050; the resilience, the security of our infrastructures and ecosystems - climate resilience - and the prosperity of workers, people and consumers, taking advantage of opportunities. Therefore, solidarity and social policies accompany change and knowledge, the commitment to innovation and knowledge, working together in the same direction, the public and private sectors. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u59	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u60	Thank you, Mrs Ribera. Do you think that some of the questions and answers we exchanged here in the control sessions will be remembered in ten or twenty years? It's very possible not, that most of them will be carried by the wind. There is one thing, however, that we can be very sure of, there is one thing that we can be very clear about, and that is that in ten or twenty years we are going to remember whether we have been up to it and whether we have faced the greatest threat facing our civilizations, which is that of climate change. That's what we're gonna remember. In the last month of January on the Iberian peninsula there were up to 55 degrees of thermal variation between two points of the Peninsula and that is not normal. The scientific community says that Madrid, in 2050, will have about the average temperature that Marrakech has today and that is not normal either, because we are on our way to being a desert country. We are immersed in a model and in a rhythm that is socially tearing, that is humanly unbearable and that, above all, is already ecologically unsustainable. The planet, simply and simply, gives no more of itself. And it is at this point, right at this point, that we must be conservative. In this the revolutionary is to be conservative. That's why I'm surprised that the bench on the right, which with other topics say they're conservative - they say they're conservative in the face of women's freedom, they say they're conservative in the face of LGBT people's freedom, they say they're conservative in the face of the right to a dignified death - at this point they're erased, they're negatists or they're in favor of continuing the predatory model. I have no doubt, Minister, of your conviction with regard to the problem, not even your conviction with regard to the need to act urgently and forcefully, but you are in the Government and the governments are talking about doing so. And I have to say that at this point we are still waiting for you. The planet is about to reach a point of no return and you cannot fail the young people who were on the street last Friday saying, precisely, that there is no planet B. That is why, as a green political force, we have to ask you to make two commitments: firstly, to make use of the European funds for a great ecological transition that generates thousands of green jobs with intelligent industrialization and, secondly, to make an ambitious climate change law that is up to the consensus of the environmental organisations and the scientific community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u61	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. As you say, a friend of mine, a former climate commissioner and conservative minister in a European country, pointed out that the reason she was a strong climate activist was precisely because she was conservative. I believe that there are different reasons why one should work in the climate, working for the future in an innovative way, working to preserve what we have and have been given to us by previous generations and improving it for the following generations. I think we're going to agree on a lot of what you indicate. In fact, it is part of our obligation and our work from day one, to the point that Spain's National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan was considered the best by the European Commission, to the point that last week the Potsdam Institute and IFRI, the two major European think tanks working on climate, pointed out the Spanish recovery plan as the best in terms of climate, environmental stake and ecological transition of all known plans to date. Therefore, count on our commitment. We do it out of conviction, out of sense of responsibility. That is why we have made a reference to objectives that are above the European targets, both in terms of energy efficiency and in terms of renewable energy and in terms of the reduction of diffuse sectors; far above the scenario of a European Union committed to -40%, far above the scenario of the European Union committed to -55 %. It is therefore applied in all domestic and international policies. But I think this is the floor from which we leave and we will need to do more. What I hope from this House is that a climate change law will come out as soon as possible, as an exit gun for everything that is ahead of us. Together we'll do much better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u63	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE, WHAT CRITERIA ARE THE PROJECTS SUBMITTED TO THE ACTION PLAN TO THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE BETWEEN MORE THAN 4200 PROPOSALS WHICH THE MINISTRY FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE HAS RECEIVED? [[File number 180//000476]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u64	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u65	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, on what criteria will the projects submitted to the Action Plan be selected against the demographic challenge from among the more than 4,200 proposals received by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u66	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u67	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Those 4,200 projects to which you referred are the expressions of interest that we have received as a result of that call by the Government. It is not a call to bid or to settle, it is a call to understand what is the map of interest, sensitivity, the concern of the different actors working in the territory, not only the big ones, but many very small with huge ideas that, however, went unnoticed. On that basis, we give you information with the rest of the Government's priorities, as, if you wish, I can detail below. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u68	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u69	In our view, it is very important to get the measures right. It is not enough to allocate aid to the projects submitted, they must really be tractor projects with the capacity to boost their regional or territorial context. We need to focus more intensively where the problem is more serious and permanent and the population density is lower, and therefore, in addition, it is often the territories with the least endogenous response to a call of this type or to the activity in general, because the population is smaller, because it is very old and because there is not enough critical mass of entrepreneurs. In some cases, the State and public enterprises should take up directly the challenge of boosting the economy, at least in a first phase. We must seek to complete the provision of essential services and the diversification of the activity, but without generating monocultures and avoiding putting some territories at the service of others, as is the risk with the unthinkable and massive deployment of wind and photovoltaics. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time it will be the second anniversary of the historic demonstration of 31 March, of the revolt of Spain that has been emptied; the more than one hundred and sixty platforms and entities that today make up this revolt will remind us, with a concentration at the gates of this Congress, of the urgent need to confront with facts the problem of territorial imbalances and the fight against depopulation. This - we all agree - is one of the great challenges of Spain, we must assume it and face it, we must be the generation that solves it. Therefore, opportunities like this, with EUR 11 billion announced, cannot be missed or missed. We have to focus, we have to assess technically what projects will really boost and help to end these imbalances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u70	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. I believe that what you have shared with us also responds to the broad feeling of this House and the messages that our fellow citizens are sending from rural environments. We have seen this in those expressions of interest that well synthesize some of the ideas that we too had collected in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. We believe that it is essential that the different levels of administration be involved, but that together with important cross-cutting measures throughout the territory, some of which I will now comment on, the future depends, above all, on what each of the inhabitants and each of the communities who, on equal opportunities, with the capacity to access services and connectivity, decide for their own environment. We have identified measures that have to do with a just and beneficial ecological transition in such important areas as water, energy or bioeconomy. Measures related to the break-up, closure of the urban-rural digital divide, connectivity or innovative capacity to connect, also in terms of mobility, the different inhabitants; connecting them in lifelong learning, in education, in facilities for women and young people, so that they can diversify and start activities that are not only linked to the primary sector, which, of course, continues to have a very important role in our rural environment. Measures approaching State and regional administrations in the territory through municipal justice offices or equivalent measures. Measures covering the territory through decentralization plans with innovation and research centres, distributed not only in the large metropolitan areas. Measures that dynamically drive the territory, encouraging entrepreneurship, facilitating the settlement, the resolution of that judgment... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW HAVE YOU DISCOVERED THAT THE PROSPECTIVE INVESTIGATIONS PROVIDED FOR DOESN'T HAVE BEEN DONE IN OUR STATE OF LAW? [[File number 180/00464]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u73	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, when have you discovered that forward-looking investigations have no place in our rule of law?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u75	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I believe that, like most jurists, in my case in 1983, as I began to study procedural law. I learned it, I didn't find out. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u77	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of the Interior, one day you got up from your bed belonging to the General Council of the Judiciary on a proposal from the PP and slept that night as Sanchez's minister, that is, an unheard-of pirouette. Since then you are contradicting everything you defended as a judge. He's liquidated the policy of dispersal of senior prisoners, he's pitting Bildu and humiliating the victims. But, moreover, in that process of betrayal of himself, his daring is ever greater. Today we have again had an example of this. Last week you said in this House that forward-looking investigations have no place in our rule of law. Right, absolutely right. You should have learned that, but you forgot. And you know why you forgot? Because you are the author of the biggest operation of this nature that has been implemented in Spain during our democracy, that of indiscriminate tracing to social networks to minimize the climate of opinion contrary to the management of the Government during the confinement, in addition to using the Civil Guard in an unlawful way. Therefore, Minister, a new exercise of cynicism on your part. It is outrageous that you still intend to sit on the chair, as outrageous as the attitude you have maintained against exemplary public officials whom you have mistreated for rabies, revenge, or the dark interests of this Government. For rabies, the cessation of Colonel Corbí, head of the UCO; for revenge, the one perpetrated against Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, to whom he has prevented his promotion to general, or by surrendering to the interests of this Government, the orderly operation for the removal of the command of General Garrido to the head of the Civil Guard of Catalonia, which has repeatedly been demanded by Catalan coupts. So, Minister, we pay tribute from here today to those men who have given their lives of honour to the service of the homeland and we warn you that nothing and no one is going to silence us, that you can now repeat your usual lies and falsehoods, but that VOX will remain speaking loud and clear to the exclusive service of freedom and Spain in front of this useless and miserable government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u79	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I see you still have a great concept of your strategy, but not one of your insidiaries on any matter has ended at all. I love it and it is an honor for me to join my name, and now you will understand why, Carlos Solchaga, Fernando Morán, Juan Alberto Belloch or Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. None of them were offended and all of them were subjected to this kind of prospective parliamentary control. But I wonder when I knew the ban on forward-looking investigations and I think it's a good opportunity to know where you and I were. Look, in 1983 I was a third-rate law student, you were already here in the House, and on 22 June you were already getting the attention of some of the members of the government, in particular the Minister of Industry, who told you that you were already beginning to lie. I had the opportunity, while also preparing the opposition in the 1980s and in my work as a judge in the Basque Country in the 1990s, to study and continue to investigate the impediment of prospective investigations. The Minister of Justice and the Interior at that time already told you how he used the policy against ETA in a twisting way. I didn't stop learning how to work while in that 1990s I was working as a judge in the Basque Country, as I told you. In the meantime, what were you doing? In the meantime, he called for the massive rapprochement of ETA prisoners to Euskadi at the end of the 1990s and, in the meantime, he was rapporteur of a law that transferred traffic skills to Catalonia. Do you remember that, what you're saying now? Or when in the year 2000, while since the National Court we were investigating cases of terrorism and corruption in relation to the Gürtel, its former party said-intercommissioned - that it was a remote and premeditated action of harassment of the People's Party. While all of that was happening, while you were going from one side to the other giving bandages, I always held the same position in relation to preventing forward-looking investigations. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GRANOLLERS CUNILLERA DEPARTMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO THEY THINK SOLUTION THE COLAPSO IN CATALANA TRAFFIC JEFACTURES? [[File number 180/00474]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u81	Question by Mrs Inés Granollers Cunillera, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u82	Minister, how do you intend to solve the collapse of the traffic chiefs in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u83	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. The Government is aware of the demands of the traffic chiefs of Catalonia, the delays in the examinations, the transfers of vehicles and the issuance of permits, duplicates, renovations and exchanges. In that regard, we are carrying out three important actions. First, the incorporation of new reviewers. During the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, 145 places, which will be completed this year, 2021, with 35 interims. It has led to the incorporation of 53 new examiners into the traffic chiefs, 29% of the 145; that is, 29% went to the traffic chiefs of Catalonia. They have also been reinforced with traveling examiners in Catalonia. In particular, we have carried 29 itinerant examiners. Itinerant services have been provided: in particular, seven examiners in Barcelona, in the province; nine in Girona; six in Lleida, and seven in Tarragona. And we're incorporating new staff into the General Service of Administrative Assistants. In particular, during this year 35 more and 24% of them all go to Catalonia. With these measures we hope to catch up and to provide the necessary and necessary service for all Catalan citizens in the field of traffic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u85	Mrs. Granollers.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u86	Despite all the measures he has explained to us here, in Catalonia there is a waiting list for the driving test of almost eighty thousand people. Despite all that he has explained to us now, the Government is still not occupying the positions of examiners who are vacant, because I remind you that, while you are calling in places, there are people who are retiring and worsening the problem. Yes, they've called 35 acting places for all of Catalonia. Even assuming that they are covered, that progress is going to be difficult, how long will it take these 35 examiners to examine the close to eighty thousand people? You are harming self-employed workers and small Catalan family businesses who run a self-school and train on roads in Catalonia, but you are not only harming them, but also thousands of young people who need a driving licence to study, work or emancipate, especially in rural areas, many who need a driving licence to stand up for opposition: firefighters, forest workers and Mossos d'Esquadra need this permit. It also harms those who need it to opt for work in the transport sector. Do you know that the transport sector needs personnel? Do you know where this staff is? I say this to you: on the waiting lists, because DGT has been unable to solve the problem. He has simply passed the problem on to the self-schools with the CAPA system. This is a game of trilers. They pass the collapse of the DGT to the self-schools, assign the self-schools a quota that they have no ability to examine and also assign them all the pressure of the student, while you wash your hands. But the problem is still there. If they are not able to equip Catalonia with examiners, we have the solution. They pass the skills, because in a crisis and in a critical situation having a driver's license is a vital emergency for many people. I would like to remind you that you have transferred your powers to the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u87	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. Don't worry because, as I have commented and mentioned with objective facts, we have been working for three years. You forget the deplorable management of the People's Party throughout the public domain for seven years. [[Protests]] You forget the fact of the pandemic and the impact it has had on the possibility of conducting the examinations and issuing the permits, but we are resolving the problem. I tell you again: 145 new examiner places, of which 53 have gone to Catalonia, i.e. one in three. We are responding and I repeat that there will also be nine itinerant examiners. We face the need to strengthen this public service for citizens, but also for many professional sectors, as you have indicated. There are 32 new places for the traffic chiefs of Catalonia within the framework of places of the General Body of Administrative Traffic Assistants. We continue to work, as you have mentioned, and I am sure that all these measures will help to equip our traffic system with the sufficient number of examiners to meet the demand. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MIGUEL ÁNGEL CASTELLON RUBIO, IN SUPPORT OF THE MIGUEL ÁNGEL JEREZ JUAN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF CONSUMER: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THE ADMISSION TO BE TRANSMITTED BY THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL OF THE RESOURCE AGAINST THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2021 PLAY THE SUPPORT POLICIES TO THE WORK OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00471]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u89	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Castellón Rubio, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u90	Mr Ábalos, on Thursday the Constitutional Court admitted to the People's Party's appeal against the Government's decree to protect illegal octopus in our country, a decree that even prevents judges from returning the use of occupied property to their owners. Minister, do you believe that the resolution jeopardizes the government's policy of support for octopus? Mr. Ábalos, today's the day. Taking advantage of the fact that you are here today, what can you tell us about the report prepared by the State Aviation Safety Agency, which depends on your ministry and which was decisive in granting the millionaire aid to Plus Ultra? [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u91	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u92	Thank you, President. Member, you have to choose one question or another. I, kindly, answered whatever I wanted, but don't take advantage of me being here, because I might also ask how I feel, for example. [[Applauds]] To the question. Following the adoption of the Royal Decree-Law of December, we were able to see that there were also minors, dependents or victims of gender-based violence who were not protected and, however, in criminal proceedings. Therefore, be sure that we are not protecting criminals, but vulnerable people, people who are in a tremendous, very exceptional situation and also motivated by the current circumstances of the pandemic. In addition, the judge continues to have full power to decide whether or not to suspend a launch after making a weighted assessment. This is aimed at large forks and we even propose a possible economic compensation if we do not find a housing solution. It is an exceptional, timely measure for supposed assessments and for certain forks, but above all, thinking of a situation such as the current pandemic. I don't think a little solidarity is bad either. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u93	Mr. Castellón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u94	Look, Mr Ábalos, the housing policy of this government has gone from being a real spectacle with fights every day to being a real danger to legal security, capable of scaring private investment in this country, almost as much of a discontrol as that of Spanish airports. These are the credentials of his party, the PSOE, for the next election on May 4. But another show - or rather a bochorno - is the one that we are knowing these days with the help of 53 million euros to the airline Plus Ultra, a medium Spanish medium Venezuelan company that before yesterday nobody knew, good that you did know. Mr Ábalos, eight days ago you said that your ministerial department had not intervened in the millionaire concession to Plus Ultra. Today we know that you, for a change, lied. Eight days ago you said that you did intervene in Air Europe's aid because it was a strategic company and that Plus Ultra was very small. So, in addition to deceiving us, do you mean that, in your opinion, Plus Ultra is not a strategic company? Eight days ago he said you didn't know the file. Are you aware today of the favourable report that the agency that depends on you has drawn up recommending that aid be granted to this airline or do they not let it see the file as to the rest of the opposition? Eight days ago you said that the grant was granted by the members of the managing fund - I open quotes - who, under your responsibility, know what they can and cannot do. Today we already know that some responsibility you have, don't you, Mr. Secretary of Organization of the PSOE? Eight days ago you said you couldn't give much more explanation. We know today, Minister, that you have an obligation to give many more explanations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u95	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u96	Thank you, President. Well, it's obvious that the house is interested in the fair, it's more interested in Venezuela. But do you know what I'm going to tell you in view of the control session we have today?The problem you have is that today the only two presidents of the People's Party appear before the courts. [[Applauds]] And what has not been mentioned here is what is gravitational in the environment. They have to make as much noise as possible to avoid this notice that is exceptional in any democratic country, and that two presidents have to appear by box B. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that housing does not matter to you; you reduced housing policy funds by 61% while you ruled, by 61%; rent prices were shot, yet you cut leases from five to three years; in 2014 there were 68,000 mortgages and occupations multiplied by three, from just under 4000 in 2011 to over 10,600 in 2017. We are trying to have a real housing policy, which is the great pending subject that you left behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT PURSUANT TO REGULATE ABUSIVE ACQUILERS? [[File number 180/00465]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u97	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the Spanish state there are three million households under the rental system, of which 12% are Basque households. In the Spanish State, 83% of children under 30 years of age cannot be emancipated, the average age of emancipation in 2019 in the Basque Country was 29.6 years, I suppose it will now be worse. In Spain there is more than 40% youth unemployment; according to the Labour Force Survey, in the Basque Autonomous Community in the fourth quarter of 2020 it was 35.7%. In 2020, 116 evictions were carried out a day in the Spanish state, in the middle of the pandemic and with the courts slowing down. In this context we see how rent continues to increase and, according to data from the Banco de España and the National Institute of Statistics, in the last ten years rental prices have risen by thirty times more than wages. And given this harsh reality, we ask you how the Government intends to regulate abusive rents.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u99	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. The Government is developing and promoting a number of measures to help people access rented housing by being aware, in addition, of the diagnosis that you yourself have expressed. Among them, and it is not the only one, we have the new law for the right to housing, which aims to guarantee the constitutional role of the right to housing and above all the determined drive to build a real public housing park. Because, in short, the structural problem that we have is the lack of supply and, therefore, what we have to stimulate is supply; on the one hand, by seeking private actors to get out of the market and, on the other hand, by seeking public authorities to promote public housing parks, and on the other hand, we must commit the whole of administrations to allocating funds and resources to create this housing park that makes affordable rent possible. And, on the other hand, we must always address the situation of the most vulnerable and, of course, I insist, improve the collaboration and commitment of the whole of administrations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u101	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u102	Frankly, I believe that it is more a question of guaranteeing a right than of stimulating an offer within the laws of supply and demand of a market that is always shown to be scrupulously unfair to those who have less. I believe that this is about guaranteeing the right to decent housing, and for a progressive government this is the priority always - I insist, always - in front of the economic interest that some, whether small or large, may have in terms of the economic benefit that a housing can give them. In short, it is a matter of prioritizing public resources to guarantee the right to housing. The state already knows what it is to intervene in the economy, it did so in the bank with 60 billion euros of aid, with the Sareb with 35 billion or 50 billion, according to the source, even with the 40 billion that in one way or another and through different administrations have taken the vulture funds like Blackstone, Azora or Cerberus. Why not bet alternative models to tax deductions? You have said that there are several measures and it is true, you can talk about the protected housing parks with protected rent, to take out the empty houses, because it is also not about building more but trying to make the uninhabited houses stop being with special charges. In short, it is a question of limiting rental prices, as France, Italy and Germany have done - countries with which this State often likes to compare - because the policy of deductions they are planning - and Gestha, that is to say, the technicians of Finance - does not guarantee the reduction of the rent, it will not even benefit the average tenant. In any case, it can benefit the big forks, the vulture funds and the bank. Deductions are incentives to owners where the bank and vulture funds always win. The Galician Real Estate Federation said this is the way; honestly, I don't think so. If you are betting on a public housing policy that allows everyone to opt for housing, you will have us by your side, if not, no.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u103	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u104	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, if we agree with the problem and we agree with the objectives. What I do not want you to think about - perhaps you have to insist a lot to understand - is that we do not reduce at all the law that contemplates many more issues, not even the measures for affordable rent, the tax subsidies, but you will understand that we should not waste this possibility either because, in the end, in everything that individuals do, both associations and people, for the general interest there is always a recognition by the Administration. For that there are deductions, for that there are subsidies, and we are trying to guarantee these rents especially to vulnerable people, to young people, to those who actually give quality to housing through rehabilitation. All this must be acknowledged and promoted. The deductions are in the IRPF, so investment companies do not benefit from these exemptions because, I insist, they are on the income of natural persons. But I am also telling you that we are also about to declare the tense zones, we have to define the empty houses so that the IBI surcharge can be applied, which cannot now be applied because there is no definition of the term empty houses. And above all, I insist, the government's goal now is 100,000 public housing, 100,000; we have exceeded the 24,000 of the 20,000 that we had initially raised, with the agreements that we made with the Sareb, with the billion European funds earmarked for the last hour, that we have had this increase... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JUAN JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MATARÍ SÁEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHY THE GOVERNMENT LAWS IN EDUCATION AT THE MARGIN OF CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/00470]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u106	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mr Juan José Matarí Sáez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ábalos, speaking of two last presidents, those of the PSOE, Griñán and Chaves, are condemned for corruption. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Minister, why does the government legislate on education outside the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u108	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u109	Forgive me, Mr Matarí, the truth is that I have listened to you, frankly, imperfectly, but I can tell you that the Lomlou is exquisitely anchored in the Spanish Constitution and, as you know, was approved and endorsed by the absolute majority of the General Courts on 23 December. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u110	Mr. Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u111	Mrs Celaá, you have heard me perfectly. Its education law violates the constitutional mandate of article 9, which obliges the public authorities to promote conditions for real and effective freedom. Article 27 enshrines freedom of education, and freedom of education means that parents have freedom of choice and, even if you do not like it, the right to choose education for our children, also and especially, Mrs Celaá, if those children have any disability. And I'll tell you one thing, special education, the one you want to disappear - yes, yes, although now tell me no, you want it to disappear - is an extraordinary tool for integration. I know that very well. My daughter Andrea is twenty-five years old, has received all her education in a special center, has passed through the university doing a special degree too, thanks to a project of the Autonomous University with the Prodis Foundation. Today Andrea works and her integration in the workplace is unbeatable and her social inclusion full. You know why? Because their training has been adapted to their abilities. Andrea has Down syndrome and has been able to develop its full potential. [[Applauds]] Mrs Celaá, do not reduce the quality of our democracy by hindering the education of the most vulnerable, those who need more and better support from the public authorities. Let parents continue to choose the education we consider best for our children. Mrs Celaá, without poetry I tell you that our children are our children and that is why we have the right to choose their education. They have passed the most sectarian and radical educational law, without listening to families, parents, children, the educational community or, of course, the opposition. Yesterday the European Parliament did, and it is going to deal with the complaints made by five organisations representing millions of Spaniards and, although you will now say otherwise, the European Parliament has asked the Commission to investigate whether its law violates the rights of freedom of education and educational pluralism. And as you have not heard, autonomous communities like Madrid have had to take urgent measures to defend educational freedom and protect the right of families so that they can continue to choose public education, concerted education or special education; education in freedom, Mrs Celaá, so that parents can choose, because, unlike you, we always defend the best interests of the child. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u112	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u113	Mr. Matarí, where do you come from? [[Laughter]] You come from far away. You have no contact either with the educational world or with parents, children or teachers. I don't know what you're talking about, honestly. But it's just that you've never cared about the lives of the Spaniards. What contribution have you made to progress? My Lord, you read the principles and purposes and you open the Constitution on the same pages and collation. [[Show a book]] Apart from what Constitution are you talking to me about? What is it that enshrines education as a commodity subject to demand and not as a human right? What Constitution are you talking about when you're courting the parental veto by violating what is the best interests of the child? What Constitution are you talking about? [[Applauds]] Of the fabulade for you. Listen, why would it be outside the Constitution to combat school segregation for whatever reason? And why is it outside the Constitution to put much more resources in regular centres to deal with special education, precisely? Is that outside the Constitution? [[Applauds]] What happens is that you do not defend equality, you defend privilege, and when you say freedom you are not saying freedom but cut freedoms. [[applause]] And you, who have voted against here, who have pressed the button to support or not the law, who is a parliamentary representative of this House, are now working hard on one of the bodies of the European Commission to discredit Spain; you, who should be defending the law that has supported the majority of Spaniards, even if it was against it. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's why I'm telling you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u114	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS HIS FUNCTION IN THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00463]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u115	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good morning. What is its role in the Government of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u117	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u118	Thank you, President. It is up to me to propose and implement the action of the Government in the area of territorial policy, territorial organization of the State, relations with the autonomous communities, the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla and local entities, as well as in the area of civil service, administration and governance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u119	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are one of Mr Sánchez's personal assignments that will have a very high cost to Spain and the Spanish. He is not alone, he is not the only one, but his appointment undoubtedly implies a huge betrayal of the Spanish people by Mr Sánchez. The same president who decided that the extreme communist left should sit in the Moncloa, the same president who decided to keep a philosopher as a minister of health to fight the pandemic, that same Mr Sánchez has decided that you are at the head of such a sensitive portfolio at this very moment, as is the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service. Why? That's the question. Why? In the coming weeks you will have to face as Minister of Territorial Policy two important issues for Spain: on the one hand, the institutional rebellion of the Generality and the Parliament of Catalonia, including the dialogue on the granting of pardons to Catalan coupsmen and, on the other, the transfer of competences to the Basque Country, the first being the transfer of competence in the field of prisons. The Spanish must know that these two issues are now under their immediate responsibility and that Mr Sánchez, the President of the Government, knowing that, decided that you would take over that portfolio. Why? I'll ask you again. Dismissed that it is because of your talents as a dancer, the only reason why you occupy this portfolio is because you have publicly stated that you are betting to dismember Spain, to break its unity and the equality of the Spaniards and to recognize within it up to eight nations, including Catalonia and the Basque Country. This is the profile that President Sánchez needed at the head of the ministry to consummate the pacts of shame that have allowed him to reach the Moncloa and now stay in it because no one is worth it. Although I do not declare it openly in this House today, it has done so only a few weeks ago in an interview that gave El País, already as a minister, where he spoke on these two specific issues. Of course, Minister, I can assure you that in my words there is no acrid, there is a deep sadness because it is to look at you and I can only think how my dear Spain hurts me. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u121	Quiet, please. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u122	Thank you, President. Look, Your Honor, in Spain, who decides who is on the Council of Ministers is the president or do you think anyone else should decide? Secondly, forgive me for using an expression that may be thick, but don't offend me; I have promised to keep and keep the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, and that's what I'm going to do, that's what I'm going to do. [[Applauds]] I would not work for a government that will seek to break the unity of Spain and, moreover, I remind you that being in the opposition, the People's Party in the government had to face a very serious constitutional crisis and, both the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which I lead, were at the side of the government to face that crisis. [[PSC-PSOE]] So much so that the Independenceists vetoed my presence in the Senate to prevent me from being president. So please don't keep playing with this. [[Applauds]] If you were really interested in the competences of my department, you would have spoken with your lords, Emilio Jesús del Valle and Eduardo Luis Ruiz Navarro, who participated, and very actively, by the way, and very respectfully, by the way, in the Committee on Territorial Policy and Public Service. There they had the opportunity, even from the most absolute discrepancy, but I want to thank you one thing; they suddenly told me: well, at least you answer what is asked of you; that I believe it is my duty, and there it made it very clear that the will of this Government, of course, is not to break Spain but to strengthen it. I want a strong Spain in its unity and proud of its diversity. That is the constitutional mandate; that is the mandate I have received from the President of the Government and I will confine myself to that. Finally, in politics it can be built or destroyed. I, of course, am with the builders, not with the destroyers. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED ROSA MARIA ROMERO SÁNCHEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONTAINING HIS COMMITMENT TO VACUNATE 70% OF THE POPULATION AGAINST COVID-19 ON THE FUTURE? [[File number 180/00469]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u123	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Question by Mrs Rosa María Romero Sánchez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u124	Thank you, President. Madam Minister of Education, what a lack of respect in the reply to the honourable Member, Mr Matarí! What insensitivity with a father of a disabled girl! He's not here, but tell his partner. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister of Health, with a hundred thousand dead, with more than three million infected, 130,000 of them, with a country devastated by the doors of the fourth wave, do you continue, Minister, to keep your promise and that of Mr Sánchez that 70 % of the population will be vaccinated in the summer? Tell the truth, because in it is the life of the Spaniards and the future of our country. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u125	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain participates in the European Vaccination Strategy; a strategy that is a strength, and as the Commission states with regard to vaccination of 70% of the European population, we remain committed. And, by the way, this minister always speaks the truth; the others, you, do not know. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u127	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u128	Look, minister, the problem is that you are not in what you have to be; you are presenting failed censorship motions, you are destabilizing the country in the midst of the pandemic; what irresponsibility!Your Honor, Mr Sánchez said that 70% of the population would be vaccinated in the summer. You've been talking about September lately. According to experts, the president of immunologists is saying that it is most likely that Christmas will have to come. They're gonna keep fooling all the Spaniards! And worst of all, after everything that's happened, they haven't learned anything. Where are the 30,000 missing vaccines? [[Rumors]] Explain today and here where they are and who has put them. We are in the queue of Europe in vaccination and vaccines are lost! Minister, a national vaccination plan is urgently needed. Vaccines are the only solution to save lives and save jobs. That's your responsibility. Take the initiative as other European leaders are doing. We have proposed legislative, health and economic measures to them; they have been despised. When will legislative reforms to address the pandemic take place? Or are we going to follow sine die in the state of alarm? We are facing the worst catastrophe, with the worst government; its management an absolute disaster. Watch in Madrid, at Zendal Hospital; an epidemic hospital, the best in the world; and that has done it with great effort Madrid. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And what have you done? What's your management, putting stickers on vaccines? [[Applauds]] Tell me where the 30,000 missing vaccines are. That's your responsibility. Make it clear; stop cheating; stop making excuses and tell the truth. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u129	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I see you're campaigning. This minister, no, and neither does this government. This minister is dedicated 24/7, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, to deal mainly with two things: the urgent, to end the pandemic, and to successfully complete the vaccination process. By the way, Your Honor, they're counting badly; the second trimester we're going to multiply by at least three or four what's come in the first and, by the way, not a single missed dose. I hope that it will be withdrawn publicly; I hope that it will be withdrawn publicly. [[Rumors]] The record will clearly show not only the doses that we deliver to the Autonomous Communities but also those of Defense - we are finishing to integrate both records - and, also, those that we have sold to Andorra. Do you think it's wrong to vacate the Armed Forces, to you who are the right-wing party? Not us - not us - and, by the way, we're going to make a spectacular leap in vaccines. This is a vaccination strategy that is ours, which is of all, of all the autonomous communities, including those that govern your party; they should learn more from them. This government is in charge of bringing vaccines, by the way, successfully, because we are participating in a European strategy that represents a great strength of the country and of the European Union. By the way, do you remember when my predecessor said that by the end of 2020 we were going to have vaccines and you mocked? We have had vaccines in 2020, we have had them thanks to science, thanks to the talent of all humanity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will maintain and fulfil the commitment to have 70% of the population vaccinated during the summer. This minister has always said the same thing - the meaning of the propositions has its raison d'être - during the summer. We have to see how high summer it will be, but I ask you to add to what vaccines mean; they mean two things: hope and future. Is it so difficult to tell the PP to incorporate itself into the hope and future of this country? We'll get it with you or without you. [[Applauds]] - OF MR MARIO CORTÉS CARBALLO, IN SUPPORT OF Mr MIGUEL ANGEL CASTELLON RUBIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP IN THE CONGRESS,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u131	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Mario Cortés Carballo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u132	Madam Minister, after hearing from the media this week about the details of the rescue to Plus Ultra, we share the indignation of many Spaniards, self-employed, hoteliers, small businesses, workers who do not arrive at the end of the month, unemployed people who have finished their job, because this is a scandal to be seen where it is looked. Mrs Montero, you said that this airline met the requirements, but it has been giving losses since the first day and very possibly will never return the 53 million you have given it. You knew, as Minister of Finance, that the capital of this company comes from tax havens like Panama, and you said nothing. He said it was strategic because it flew to countries without coverage, but these routes are also made by other Spanish airlines. Now it turns out you don't have four planes, you only have one; that the number of workers now is 255 and neither do the 2500 indirect jobs you said you had. If we make quick numbers, you give this company 150,000 euros per employee. Will you be equally generous with aid to SMEs and self-employed people? Mrs. Montero, you lied blatantly to us last week. What dark alliance do they have with the regime of Venezuela to give this spectacle so unfortunate to all of Spain and Europe? [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u133	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would say, Mr Cortés, that we need to be more careful when it comes to demonising, denouncing, aid to businesses, as you usually do when you do not rule, because you dirty the name of a company and you don't care. You don't mind taking what you take to get the political benefit that you think you can pull out. You will see, Mr Cortés, that this company belongs to one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic, the tourism sector. You know that Spain is a leader in tourism and you know, because I said it last week, that our country has only twenty type A licensing companies, companies that are essential for the support of the hub Barajas that, as you know, you not only have to preserve it in size but make it increase to be competitive with countries in our environment. You know, because I also said it in the previous appearance, that Plus Ultra covers a market niche different from that of companies that are competitors in your sector. You know that it is a Spanish company and therefore a company that meets the requirements and also - I say this because I have read that they question it - that the economic situation of this company, in application of the rule that it has, which is the regulation of the European Union to determine whether the company is in crisis - is an objective question - is taken for granted. So, ladies and gentlemen, what's the matter with you? Perhaps you have some problem with competition, you are friends with the competition of this company, because what I can assure you in every way is that, of course, it is not a criterion of exclusion of any company the supposed friends or the supposed issues that the shareholders of a company have. That is not a part, and I hope that neither when you govern, on a subjective criterion, a criterion that has no objectivity in any legal text. So be serious, help the business sector in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u135	Mr. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u136	Mrs. Montero, haven't you noticed that you're being left alone in this matter? Your mates are starting to wash their hands. Mr Ábalos - you have just seen it -, a thundering silence when asked; Mrs Calviño, which is none of your business; Mrs Maroto, which is as strategic as any other airline. At this stage it will turn out that the rescue has taken place alone. And, meanwhile, thousands of SMEs and autonomous can't stand more and millions of Spaniards worried about their uncertain future. But that is the first company rescued, Plus Ultra, with 150 000 thousand euros per employee and thus up to 53 million. For friends whatever it takes, right, Mrs. Montero? The 140 billion European Reconstruction Funds have not yet arrived and you are already doing yours. How can they be so irresponsible? This rescue and everything around you smells very bad, Mrs. Montero. We have asked a committee of inquiry to get to the bottom of the matter. We believe there has been friendship and fraud. Yes, that way of governing that you so well learned from the EREs of Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u137	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u138	Thank you, Madam President. The modus operandi you have is very simple. You ask, demand, that instruments be given to help companies to then dismantle and accuse us of being friendly and accusing us of being plugged in, so that the Administration is withdrawn and no aid is granted to companies. That is what you intend and I can tell you, Your Honor, from the point of view of responsibility, that we are not going to do that. And I say to him more: never, ever, your party in Andalusia, not even in the political inquiry committee, pointed out to any of the ministers that we are sitting... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u139	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u140	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent debate by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, on the urgent need for reform of the autonomous financing system, as well as the establishment of compensatory measures, such as the levelling fund, until such reform is carried out. For your defence, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday Mr Ortiz Galván, of the People's Party, dedicated some loving words to me and I, honouring the Spanish saying, as the courteous does not take away the brave, it belongs to him. Watching the news on television, listening to the radios, watching the front pages of the newspapers, you have to be very bold to be the PP and want to give decency lessons to anyone. And with this, I conclude. [[The Lord]] Madam Minister, our paths inevitably find each other again, and they are found because they do not give us solutions. There are words that suddenly appear and we hear them continually; there is one that is the procrastinary verb. In the RAE the definition is: defer, defer. A longer definition would say: postponement, postponement, habit of delaying activities or situations that must be addressed, replacing them with other situations that are more irrelevant or pleasant for fear or laziness to face. The successive governments of the People's Party - and of the PSOE now - have been procrastinating for seven years in the financing of the autonomous communities. And what's worse, in view of your meeting with the President of Valencia last week, they intend to continue to do so. In this - and understand it well in the PSOE - and in this alone the PP and the PSOE look like two drops of water. The roles of procrastinator are exchanged to claim with a stunning scatter. This very week we are seeing a demand for the People's Party there in Valencia as it had never been known. I wish they'd done it seven, six or five years ago! We'd probably be a lot better off. Facts. Consummated facts. There is a general consensus - even you yourself have said it on several occasions, said the President of the Government, said the previous President of the Government and said it the former Minister of Finance - that the financing of the Valencian Community is the worst in Spain. The system has expired since 2014 and by law had to be reformed. Therefore, for seven years now we are - and I will use a football term - in orsay, out of the law, and whoever is free of sin, I insist, to throw the first stone. The People's Party had it, in short... to play, had absolute majority, ruled in most autonomous communities and, what did it do? Nothing, nothing at all. Another fact, debt. Valencia's debt rose from 6.50 on GDP when the ineffable Mr. Zaplana entered to 42% of Camps and Fabra. We increased from EUR 2750 million in debt to EUR 42 billion in 2015; from EUR 688 per capita in debt to EUR 6416, we multiplied by fourteen. Since he is president, Mr Sánchez has continued to rise, more than 2 billion in the two periods he has been president. We are now at 47% on GDP. We are the most indebted autonomous community in terms of GDP, 47%, and we follow and follow and follow; 49 billion debt. In January 2017 the Conference of Autonomous Presidents agreed to set up a committee of experts to assess the figures and, after twenty meetings, issued their opinion. We therefore already have an opinion. Since then... my relationship with you is good, but, anyway, I insist, the courteous does not take away the brave. You have given us promises, good words - not to me, to the president of all the Valencians -, unfulfilled commitments with us, excuses - many excuses -: no at the moment, there is a climate of friction, you cannot reach agreements or the most aided: the priority is to stop the pandemic. That's precisely why, because we're in a pandemic, it's more pressing. There are autonomous communities that are well financed and that do not have the problems we have to pay for our essential services. We have to wait until the FLA manna, the state loan, arrives in order to be able to pay for those services. And thank you, yes, but more debt and more debt! Anyway, what am I going to tell you that you don't know, Mrs. Montero, what am I going to tell you! This claim is a cry in my land widely shared throughout the world: by parties of different signs, by trade unions, by employers, by associations, by bands of music, by people in general. That is why, as a Valencian Member, I make a proposal to the other thirty-one Valencian Members of Parliament, Valencians: for once, let us forget our acronyms and put ahead the people we represent, those five million Valencians and Valencians who expect that from us, that we agree on a common and legitimate interest, an interest of our people. I propose to the thirty-one Valencian Members formally, without a prioriism, that we consent to the motion resulting from this inquiry on the basis of the repeated agreements approved by the Valencian Courts with the votes of PSOE, Compromís and União Podemos, but also with the votes of Citizens and not with the vote of the PP, because in the end they wanted to put, in the last vote, a deadline, but they were in agreement on the merits with the claim, as is being claimed by Isabel Bonig, their president. And I propose that we agree that it should be approved by a large majority, so I ask all of you to be brave, to be consistent between what you vote there and what we vote here, but above all, I ask you to be loyal to the Valencian people, to whom we all have the honour of representing. Mrs Montero - I am finishing -, I ask you only two reasonable, fair things and, as I like to be constructive, consumable: first, do you present a proposal, your proposal, that of your ministry? Take the first step; if we do not take the first step, we will never be able to take the second, we will never move forward, and we know that it is difficult, that it is complicated, that it is demonized, but let's move forward, let's take a step. And second: a proposal that we have put forward here, in this rostrum, several times and that in some statement has also shared the councillor of Hacienda Valenciano, his friend Vicent Soler, and that is that while it is being negotiated, and I understand that this can be a long negotiation; while this new model of financing is being approved, a levelling fund is being created so that the autonomous communities that are below the average in financing per inhabitant can reach at least that average; a levelling fund for the five autonomous communities plus under-financing - Andalusia, Valencian Community, Murcia, Galicia and Castilla-La Mancha - that places us in the Spanish average. And not as some stakeholders sometimes say, not for the indispensible expenses of the autonomous communities, but for the reconstruction, to deal with the crisis, to help people, businesses, the self-employed, for our public health, for our public education, for our social services. It would be fair in a progressive government, to help those who have less, those who are worse. Mrs. Montero, it's in your hand. Which verb would you prefer to conjugate? Procrastinate or advance? You yourself.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u142	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u143	Good morning, Your Honor, and thank you, Mr. President. Mr Baldoví, I am glad that our paths can be found, even if it is for you to reproach this government for the times and timing of the approach of something that you know I share 100 percent, such as the reform of the autonomous financing model. Nor do I think we can disregard, Mr Baldoví, that the particular situation that we have experienced this year has, of course, forced all governments to change their priorities and I think it is objective to say this with that clarity, because today the main objective of this Government is to stop the spread of the virus, the fight against the health pandemic, to end it and, at the same time, to try to ensure that the productive fabric of our country does not suffer irreparable consequences from which it cannot recover within a short period of time. I am convinced that we share the view that this priority was incorporated today, which none of us had foreseen at all when this legislature began, in which, therefore, we managed different times. But, Your Honor, I find it very unfair for you to say in this rostrum that we are the same progressive government as the People's Party in dealing with the economic crisis. I think that we are acting in a completely different way, among other things with the support of your group, and that has to really enable us to say that there is a way to deal with situations arising from economic crises without anyone being left behind, be they natural persons or legal persons, businesses or the citizens of our country as a whole. Also, Your Honor, I believe that there is something that is beyond doubt and that is that this Government has demonstrated with facts its conception of the territorial structure of our country and respect and support, Your Honor, for each and every one of the Autonomous Communities. I believe that this is not a phrase and that the People's Party had nothing to do with it, which, when they came hard, placed the burden of responsibility on other administrations, subjected them to much harder tax targets than those which they themselves self-imposed themselves on, and we never knew that there was an unconditional compensation or aid in the form of a transfer that could be used to guarantee the provision of public services. Mr Baldoví, I believe that not only the progressive government, but the political forces that supported this progressive government have shown a different way that we have to put into value, because it cannot be that everyone is homogenized under that umbrella that the territorial administrations are secondary to the priority of this government, since we have shown, with facts, that for this government so important is the problem that it has at the door of a ministry such as that which has an autonomous community because it does not have guarantee of provision, education, health or social services. They are not promises, Mr Baldoví, they are facts that the Government has been involved in. I'll tell you what. In 2020, despite the largest fall in GDP ever experienced by the Spanish economy, the result of the health pandemic, the autonomous communities have received the greatest transfer of their history, Mr Baldoví, yes this is not a coincidence, this is not the result of a spreadsheet and so it is transferred, but this has been a political decision of the progressive government that decided not to impact on autonomous communities the fall in income. I believe that this must be applauded, among other things, Mr Baldoví, because it should set a precedent for the future. This must be received with the importance that it has: that we have isolated from the fall in income - therefore, from the impact in quantity and quality of public services - to health, education and dependence, to the competences that the autonomous communities develop. Or, in other words, as if the crisis had not affected the autonomous communities - quite the opposite - by increasing their income volume as if GDP were to behave upwards. I believe that this is important, Mr Baldoví, to recognize it, among other things, because it is an incentive for the Government to continue to function in this way, because it cannot be the same for one to act by supporting or acting on the road to the autonomous communities. I remind you of the record figure of 115,887 million euros, 7.3% more than in 2019, in the midst of a fall in GDP. There's the data and I think we have to recognize it. It was approved, Your Honor, a COVID Fund, regardless of the first, of 16 billion euros - not 100 or 200 million euros, but 16 billion euros -, a non-conditional, non-reimbursable fund, the greater transfer of the State to the autonomous communities outside the financing system. It is 16 billion, ladies and gentlemen, that pays the Spanish Government well with its budget, either with indebtedness or with a mixture of the two, which is what is usually done, so that the autonomous communities give guarantees to citizens in health and education in the face of a really complicated year. As you well know, this money contributes to the continued provision of services and even to strengthening them at a time when it certainly incorporated health care providers and teachers was a key to the success of the pandemic without the consequences that other countries have had. We have transferred FLA, Mr Baldoví, in the amount of EUR 39 076 million so that neither small and medium-sized enterprises providing services to territorial administrations will be affected by an increase in their average payment period. You know that in some cases that can lead to the closure of those companies. We have approved, at the request of your group, the suspension of the tax rules for the years 2020 and 2021, thus giving more scope to the whole of administrations to deal responsibly with the consequences of COVID-19. A week ago we approved a new fund of EUR 11 billion for business. Much of them -7 billion - will be transferred to the autonomous communities to supplement and modulate them with the criteria they consider appropriate and to support those sectors that have been most affected by the fall in GDP, by the fall in mobility or activity. Your Honor, we have also launched a fund from the Recovery Plan that is being worked on at the various sectoral conferences so that by sharing, each in its own competences, we can advance these great challenges of our country. You also know that we are now working on an additional EUR 13 billion fund approved by the Congress of Deputies in the debate on budgets and that, pending distribution, it will also allow the autonomous communities not only to operate without fiscal rules, but also to have a direct transfer - not a loan, a direct transfer - that will allow them, as I say, to continue to do what is important, which is to preserve the provision of public services. Therefore, Your Honor, we are not the same and I think it is good to remember that we are not. The progressive bloc of this Congress is allowing a different conception of our territorial structure, with our constitutional margin obviously co-governance, that the problems of one Administration be those of the other and, in the end, that we reshape in the same direction. This does not mean, Mr Baldoví, that the model of autonomous financing remains a priority for this executive. We with your group have talked a lot about autonomous financing and we have pledged that over the next few weeks and months we would discuss one of the most important variables on which the model revolves, such as the adjusted population or, in other words, it is usually one of the parameters that most deflates financing in the territories in one or another sense and that has to do with the study of such important issues as ageing, such as dispersion, such as insularity, such as the weight of the young population and other variables that, as you well know, are inherent in any model of autonomous financing. That is why, Your Honor, I continue to reaffirm in this rostrum that we have a clear timetable for our work. It is true that the outbreak of the pandemic has delayed some of the priorities that had been set at the beginning of the legislature, but that has not meant - and I think it is important, Mr Baldoví, that it has not meant - that we forget the resources that the territorial administrations, autonomous communities or municipalities have to dispose of. Far from forgetting, I think it is fair to acknowledge that this Executive, with the support of the progressive forces, has probably made a turning point in the consideration that the territorial entities have had with regard to the allocation of resources - including the resources corresponding to the Government of Spain - or the sharing of the fiscal consolidation efforts that each of us has. We will continue to work on this issue. We continue to maintain the commitment we have made to your group. That is what we discussed at the meeting with the President of the Valencian Community, in which he expressed to me approximately the same concerns that you raised today in the rostrum, also those relating to the degree of indebtedness that the Valencian Community has been forced to incur in order to compensate for this funding deficit. I continue to repeat in this rostrum that the Valencian Community is the worst affected by the current funding model and, therefore, I believe that we need to create a sufficient climate of constructive consensus to enable us to get out of the territorial disputes and to achieve - as I understand it - a financing model that, beyond having one or another characteristic, guarantees the provision of public services, which are the security mattress for citizens in health, education, access to housing and support for the productive fabric so that the powers of the autonomous communities in their respective statutes can be exercised in the final analysis. The commitment remains alive, and in the meantime, Your Honor, we will continue to work to ensure that resources are received to enable us to continue fighting the virus, to encourage our productive fabric and, as I always say, that no one is left behind, not one family or one company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It will allow me to remember an old song that my mother sang and said more or less like this: You always tell me the same thing. Huh? You always tell me the same thing. Obviously, you are not the same and if anyone has bet that there was this government that has been compromised. Look what we've bet, look what we've negotiated to get this out and see that we're loyal! We have voted affirmatively each and every one of the decrees, minus one probably. Less one. All of us, and with some of us, we didn't agree at all. I have therefore specified this: in this, not in everything; if not, they would obviously not have our support. I'd like to ask you a question. If you, instead of sitting on the blue bench, were sitting on a red chair, if you were in my place and here was Mr. Montoro, of infamous memory, what would you say? Same as I'm telling you, right? You've been a councillor for the Andalusian Junta and you know what I'm saying. You say that the priority is the pandemic, but I consider it a very capable person to do two, three and fifty things at the same time. In fact, for example, transfers are now being negotiated with the Basque Country; and it can be done, I think perfect, I totally agree, that no ampoules should be lifted. But we can also make progress on the other. For this the pandemic is worth, but for other things it is not worth the pandemic. I will give you an example: two autonomous communities, Madrid and Valencia. Madrid continues to cut in education - we saw it this week -, fired the teachers he hired at Christmas. In Valencia the opposite happens, we continue to hire teachers, we continue to reduce ratios. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Is that your word? Then...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u146	Please, be quiet. [[Pause]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u147	Thank you so much for letting me continue in peace and respect. Madrid allows itself to talk about lowering taxes - to the richest, of course - because it has sufficient funding and has received aid just as much as those we are the worst financed. It is therefore clear that they can lower taxes. They receive the same as an underfunded community and above they can do this. You say that a great effort has been made to transfer, and I recognize you, I don't fall for rings to recognize you. That is why, since such a great effort has been made, I ask you to make a very small effort. With $24 billion we would have that leveling fund. After making the 16 000, the 11 000 and the 13 billion that you are announcing, I only ask the 2400, and we level five autonomous communities that are below, we do not bother any other autonomous community, because they continue to receive the same, and we solve a secular-this problem that so much likes the conservatives -, pandemic, because this is a pandemic problem, that of financing. Consensus climate with this right? We're not gonna have it, I'm sure. We've seen it today at the control session and we see it every week. Finally, why do they not consider, instead of the adjusted population and all that, the cost of service? How much is this service worth, so much? I pay so much, and that's it. I entrusted you with this service, which is worth so much; I give you so much to lend it, and you lend it better or worse.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u148	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u149	I insist, two things: leveling fund and already make a proposal, for God's sake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u150	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Baldoví, you put me on a stage that I hope will not be repeated again, not because I do not appreciate Mr Montoro, because you know that I have personal appreciation - not political, but personal. If Mr Montoro were in the blue bank, we would be asking him for the 16 billion to meet the costs of the pandemic, we would be asking him for the suspension of the tax rules, we would be asking him for a FLA that would allow an average period of payment for companies not to be harmed. The reality would be completely different, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Perhaps the most urgent thing we would have called for would be sensitivity to the territories, which you know was not just Mr Rajoy's or Mr Montoro's or the People's Party's. I therefore believe that we have made progress on some issues, which have in some way benefited the public finances of the Valencian Generalitat; not only those relating to the ability to receive transfers, but also on some that were within the framework of the consortium of La Marina and the involvement of some administrations, regarding which in the debate of budgets very important agreements were reached with their political formation so that we can now undertake - also I was talking to the President of the Generalitat - very relevant proposals for the whole area of the port, for an area of business expansion, which you well know and which is a claim or claim shared by most of the Valencian sectors. Now, I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Valencian Community has been making progress during this period in matters such as, for example, not having the custody of the Treasury because it has been improving the average payment periods, and therefore some kind of added control that had been eliminated when the Autonomous Community had serious difficulties in being able to pay its suppliers. As you have already proposed the creation of levelling funds and transitional solutions to the extent of autonomous financing, the 16 billion and 13 billion that the Government has made available to the territories are a transitional formula for trying to compensate the territories until the final reform of the autonomous financing model takes place. You say that you believe that the distribution of these amounts should incorporate an element that recognizes - that is what you wanted to say de facto - the situation of some autonomous communities with regard to the average. Look, I am not allergic to such compensatory methods, but, Mr Baldoví, it is understood that the adjusted population has a meaning, that is, if what is intended in the model of autonomous financing is to divide only by population - that is what you say when you point out that there are communities on average - why do some remain below? They are below with differences that are not justifiable, Mr Baldoví. I have always said that the difference of almost eight hundred euros per inhabitant between the best-financed community and the worst-financed community is not justifiable. There's no variable to explain that difference. Why does it happen? Because the weighting of the adjusted population does not meet real criteria of objectivity or - what happens in the Valencian Community - because the competitiveness fund and other funds that enter the model distort the final exit of the community, receiving less resources per capita than the rest. Therefore, creating a levelling fund, as you propose, is to implode the model of autonomous financing, which is to say that we do not recognize the intrinsic characteristics and everyone alike. Mr Baldoví, if the majority of the autonomous communities understand that the priority criterion should be the population criterion, I am prepared to study it, I have no problem in studying the population criterion as a priority criterion in that distribution. There are other autonomous communities that defend the GDP criterion in relation to the 13 billion. Each one defends in function - you know it well - from what best comes to its own public finances. On the other hand, you said that we should forget about the population, in quotes, and go to the actual cost of services. That's the battle horse, Mr. Baldoví. Not only this Government, the experts, who have been working on autonomous financing for so long, do we know that the complexity lies in determining the actual cost of public services and not in prioritizing inefficiency in those cases where it must not be rewarded and in recognizing the difficulties of certain territories in providing such services for their dispersion or because they have a structure in their autonomous community very different from that next door.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u152	You must finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u153	Having said that, Your Honor, we follow the road map that we have agreed with your political formation for these budgets. I hope that I will soon be able to present an adjusted population proposal and find a climate of consensus. A progressive government and progressive parliamentary forces, in addition to ensuring each one for its own sake, which is legitimate, Mr Baldoví, must ensure that others, especially those with lower incomes, the most vulnerable, and that there is an equal benefit throughout the territory, which does not depend on the income or capitality of each of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u154	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHAT MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO PROTECT THE MAJOR. [[File number 172/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u155	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into what measures the Government will take to protect the elderly. For your defence, Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u156	Thank you very much, President. Mr Iglesias, you have announced that you are leaving, that you are leaving voluntarily and that you leave the Vice-President of the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Social Rights. Surprisingly, after all he had to do to enter the government, to have at last in his hands the power he so desired, he has decided to abandon, disregarding the great honor of working for Spain; he has decided to abandon all the Spaniards, but especially those whom you had pledged to protect as Minister of Social Rights, our elders. It leaves just when we have finally known the number of older people killed in the homes that depended on you: 30,000 people, Mr. Iglesias; 30,000 older people for whom you did not do everything you could, for which you did not leave your skin properly; 30,000 older people, who have never been your priority. But before I leave you cowardly, before I flee vilely to fight in the imaginary trenches of that war that has been invented and that exists only in your delusions, I have the opportunity to ask you the same thing that I asked you the first time I came up to this rostrum on 29 April 2020. Once again I have the opportunity to try and explain to me what measures your Government, this government to which you still belong, has taken and is going to take to protect the elderly in Spain, although I am quite aware of what you are going to answer. And you know why I know you won't answer me? Because you can't answer me. Do you know how many meetings you have held to be interested in managing residences during the pandemic, as reported in the Transparency Portal? One, only one meeting, an hour and a half meeting on 20 March, now a year ago, by videoconference; an extraordinary session of the plenary of the Territorial Council of Social Services and the system of autonomy and attention to the unit in which it was agreed that the Spanish Army would distribute the protection material when it was available. See if it's been a while! And it's over, Mr. Churches, not one more meeting. You can't answer me because you leave without stepping on a single hospital, because you leave without stepping on a single residence, because you flee without ever meeting with the representatives of these centers for which you were responsible. See if you care about the elderly, your safety, your well-being and your life! [[Applauds]] Not a single meeting, Mr. Iglesias, with the employers of dependence, who do not even know their minister. No encounter with those who really knew the serious situation that was taking place in the centres of the elderly and in other residential centres. Not one in the fifteen months that you have remained in office, although you were the one who, since March 19, 2020, had the sole command of social services, however much then you will wash your hands delegating your responsibility, cowardly and out of pure incapacity, to the autonomous communities. Up to five times, Mr. Iglesias, tried to contact you in the most critical months, up to five times; not one or two or three, Mr. Iglesias, five times: one on January 27 at the beginning of chaos, another on February 3 in the middle of chaos, another on March 20, just after you took over the coordination command of these centers; another on March 24, after the terrible finding of dead and abandoned elderly in the residences. Do you remember, Mr. Iglesias? That was not a nightmare - I assure you -, that happened, it was real, and we should never forget it, so that we never trample again in this way the dignity of our elders. Right here I showed you the order that your Government issued on 22 March for the EMU to protect the residences of older people and intervene in all those who needed it for your indication, for your Vice-President's indication. The Residences again tried to contact you on March 30 and finally on May 5, and you never attended to them. He listened deafly to those who only sought to coordinate with the Government new protocols, to request protective material and to propose measures and possible solutions. Nor did he wish to call on the employers of the sector to participate in the working group meetings of the autonomous communities that were subsequently set up to address the situation of these centres and that met for the first time last August, and he did not want to do so despite the insistent request by their representatives. There were all the autonomous communities to try to articulate measures in the face of the new outbreaks that were taking place, to analyse coordination mechanisms with the health authorities and to address the situation of social and residential centres. However, it was not those who really knew the situation of these centers, because you did not invite them. But, unfortunately, Mr. Iglesias, your legacy is not only the 30,000 greatest dead in our residences, almost half of the total dead in this damn pandemic. In fact, Mr. Iglesias, you are leaving a much larger number of victims behind your disastrous management as Minister of Social Rights. Have you read the information contained in the report of the Unit Observatory prepared by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services? Do you know that the excess mortality among dependents has risen by more than 30% last year and that this means the death of 50,000 more people than expected? How is it possible that even in a year marked by the pandemic, which has horribly affected dependent people, many of whom are older, the budget will not be increased by a single euro? Do you know that between March and December 2020 more than 45,000 people died on the waiting list, without being reached? Do you know or have you also delegated the rest of your ministry's responsibilities? Do you know that the representatives of the various associations complain that they have not even seen you, Mr. Iglesias, that they do not even know you, that they only know your Secretary of State? Why did you want to be Minister of Social Rights, Mr. Iglesias, if you did not intend to act as Minister of Social Rights? That is what has actually happened, which has never been able to exercise as a minister of social rights, which you have never really been interested in your ministry, let alone the defense of our elders. The reality is that you chose this lamb costume to be able to get into the henhouse, which is the only thing you were interested in, because that is what you have been within the government and what will always be where you go, a wolf with lamb skin. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, if you had a true vocation as a minister of social rights, if you had ever exercised as such, you would not always have left everything in the hands of your secretary of state and your advisers, you would not now leave everything half-way, you would not leave now, when you have the opportunity to change all those things that supposedly came to change: the model of residence, the model of care for the elderly. Do you remember? Your march, Mr. Iglesias, is the observation of how little you care about all these things and that you have used your position of power for your own interest, to try to destroy our rule of law from within, to end democracy and impose your lounge communism, which is done with the current account filled with a luxury house and an official car. He says he's going to save Madrid. To save Madrid, when it has not been able to save Spain! [[Applauds]] He says, Mr. Iglesias, that a militant must be where he is most useful. What militant, Mr. Churches? You are not a militant, you are the vice president of the Government of Spain, and if you have been unable to govern a country, tell me how you intend to govern an autonomous community. Will you now take care of the residences of Madrid, when you have been unable to do so as responsible minister? Mr Iglesias, you have already failed as Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights. You've already failed Spain and the Spaniards, so don't tell us about usefulness. It has been useless to govern Spain and will be equally useless to govern Madrid. If you throw out the towel, Mr. Iglesias, it is not because you are a generous and sacrificed leader, it is because you have realized how difficult it is to govern, that - as I told you - it comes to you great to govern. [[Applauds]] That's why he prefers to go back to what's really good for him, with the advantage that he can do it for practically the same salary. How easy it is to be able to go back to the trenches war, which he likes so much, subsidized with the money of all the Spaniards! And it is that you should have been born in the 36th, Mr. Iglesias, because what you like is war, provoke war, find a way to confront and hate each other, sow poisoned seeds that blow the spark of violence against those we resist to yield and bow to your pretensions. That's why he lies, invents, slanders and slanders without mercy. [[Applauds]] That is why he escapes his responsibility and returns to the only place where he feels comfortable, to his trenches war, that in which he moves like fish in the water, because you enjoy with violence, Mr. Churches, because for you the end does justify the means, and your means are always violent, always, Mr. Churches. I have never seen in anyone a verbal aggression as terrible as yours, and that has some consequences that you will have to assume, because in this war that you are causing every wounded police will be your fault; every militant, sympathizer or public office of VOX or any other injured party will be your fault; every burned container, every broken window will be your fault; every young man used, poisoned and manipulated against others for his criminal suffocations will be your fault. Do you want to leave? Get out of here. Run away like a coward to try to save the furniture of the political party that you once created and that you yourself have taken care of destroying, but do not sell us false sacrifices for the common good, Mr. Iglesias. Do you want to leave? Marry, but assume as a man who has failed as a ruler and who has failed all Spaniards, and especially, Mr. Iglesias, our elders. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u157	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030 now has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will not enter into provocations and insults. It is terrible, it is worrying that there is a political force in this Congress of Deputies that openly advocates State terrorism or far-right terrorism. When we say that their leaders are photographed ufanos in front of statues of workers leaders and ex-ministers of this country as vandalized Largo Caballero we are not commenting, we are pointing out what you are. And I will confine myself to being rigorous with the questions of interpellation, without entering into the filth that you bring to the institutions, swelling daily. It draws my attention, yes, a surprising lack of coherence. Until a week ago you blamed me for not leaving, and when I leave, you reproach me for leaving. Even to lie, it would be good to maintain a certain consistency. With regard to the measures to strengthen and protect the rights of the elderly, as you know, a plan of confrontation has been put in place in dependence, which we have also signed with the trade unions and employers, which in a single year reverses the painful cuts made by their members of the People's Party in the state system of dependence. This is especially important because many of the dependent people are older people. In addition, this shock plan foresees an increase of up to €3.5 billion between 2021 and 2023. You insult; we make politics and bring information, rigorously in the data. [[Applauds]] The European funds that this Government negotiated within the Commission will also be an opportunity to deploy measures to strengthen care for the elderly: EUR 21 billion, which will focus on changing the model of care, making it easier for all older people who need it to continue to receive such care in their own homes. Of course, the rights of older persons are also protected by guaranteeing a sufficient public pension system in which the maintenance of their purchasing power is ensured. That was one of the points that we managed to include in the Socialist and United Party agreement. You were the only party that did not support the rise of pensions; that the elderly have to know. [[Applauds]] You told me about the management of residences during the first wave of pandemic and you ask me why I don't take pictures. To take photos with a shovel collecting snow after the Filomena or take photos putting the health of the elderly at risk you already have your government partner. We do politics, we don't take pictures. But I'm gonna tell you everything we've done. As you well know, our work was to strengthen and expand the competences of the autonomous communities so that they could cope with a health crisis of unusual dimensions. The competences in the management of the residences not only remained in the autonomous communities, but were strengthened; and it is not that I say so, said the president to whom you defend in the Community of Madrid in an interview in Telecinco with Sonsoles Ónega. As I have done on other occasions, I will read to you, textually, so that this is not opinionable, the Order of the Ministry of Health of 23 March 2020: 'The competent authority of the autonomous community is empowered, according to the epidemic and care situation of each residential center or specific territory and always according to the principles of necessity and proportionality, to intervene the residential centers subject to this order'. This is the reality, Your Honor, and this is unthinkable. The truth is that in the first wave of the pandemic the deaths in the residences of the Community of Madrid doubled to those of Catalonia and quadrupled to those of Andalusia, and I believe, Your Honor, that this deserves at least a reflection on their responsibility. This Government, as I have just read, has enabled the autonomous communities to intervene in the residences. And what did the Government of the Community of Madrid support you? I give you a data: Madrid was the community that least interventions in senior residences ordered during the pandemic in proportion to the number of deaths recorded in these centers, according to data provided by the autonomous governments. The Madrid Executive to which you support only ordered to open intervention files in 14 of its 710 residential centers. But it had to be more important for you to take pictures. Our Government also offered the Autonomous Communities the opportunity to request the Emergency Military Unit to carry out disinfection work in all those residences where necessary. And what did the Government of the Community of Madrid support you? I'm telling you: Mrs. Ayuso, her candidate, refused to let the Military Emergency Unit disinfect the residences of Madrid. And I think that citizenship here is asking a very clear question: Why did Mrs Ayuso not want the EMU to enter the residences of Madrid? What were the real reasons for initially rejecting this possibility? Fortunately, the Social Policy Adviser of the Government you support disapproved of the President and called for the intervention of the EMU. Do you know what the UME found? Elders living with corpses, Your Honor; the government you hold. [[Applauds]] We distribute an emergency social fund of 300 million euros to the autonomous communities, among other things to strengthen the staff of the residences. To facilitate, it also makes recruitment criteria extraordinarily flexible. And what did the Government of the Community of Madrid support you? I literally read him some excerpts from an investigative article in the newspaper Infolibre: 'Isabel Díaz Ayuso spent less than half of the money he received from the government to strengthen the templates to buy protective equipment'. 'The X-ray of the expenditure of the Community of Madrid shows, in comparison with other Autonomous Communities, that it gave priority to spending on personal protective equipment in the face of the reinforcement of the staff'. The government that you support and with which you are running for election. And this is important because it leads us to another crucial point: the medicalization of residences; less photos and more data. The medicalization of residences in Madrid during the first wave. I will simply read you the statements of members of the Government that you support. On 12 March, Health Adviser of the Community of Madrid: 'Residencies will be medicalized and the most infected will be treated there'. On 17 March, President of the Community of Madrid: 'We, within the entire care network that we have within the Community of Madrid, are all medicalised'. On 15 April, Vice-President of the Community of Madrid: 'Isabel Díaz Ayuso has not heard the requests of the social policy adviser to strengthen the health personnel in the Madrid geriatrics'. April 21st, Social Policy Advisor of the Community of Madrid: 'A medicalized residence is not a residence with health care alone, it is something more'. The President and the Health Adviser of the Government you argued that you had medicalized them, while the Vice-President and the Social Policy Adviser of the Government you argued that you did not. Fortunately, recently, Carlos Mur, Ayuso's political position at the head of the management of residences, has declared in the Commission of Inquiry of the Assembly of Madrid that they were not radicalized because the health personnel initially intended for this purpose were relocated. Where? In the miracle hospital of Ifema. Less photos, more data and more realities, Your Honor. But what then happened to the supposed medicalization of residences? I'll explain it to you. It turns out that the government you support has assigned the task of medicalizing the residences to Encarnación Burgueño, the daughter of the architect of the health privatization of Madrid, who baptized with a very subtle name his operation to medicalize the residences: Operation Bicho. Incarnation Burgueño had been teleoperator and sales manager of Telepizza, very worthy professions, but he had no means or experience to do the work for which he had been hired. Burgueño decided to subcontract another company, Transamed, which had four ambulances, four doctors and two nurses to intervene in the 475 residences in the Community of Madrid. A company which, moreover, hired - how curious! - Venezuelan doctors in an irregular situation, who worked without contract, Your Honor. On Saturday, April 4, when thousands of elderly people had already died in Madrid residences, this lady sent an audio note congratulating the manager of this ambulance company to whom they had subcontracted, Mr. Eduardo Aragonés. I'm going to read him what that note of voice said, because it's very illustrative of his way of ruling: 'We took around 8700 bullies seen. Do you know what that is, the curry you've done? In a week... Flip colors. As we continue to do, we are going to make the kings and masters of the socio-health management of Madrid autonomous community. Okay? Flip. You're great. You're gonna make my dream come true, which is working in the socio-health world. Having my own company.' In this they were thinking who received the order to medicalize the residences: to stuff themselves, ladies and gentlemen, which is what you are dedicated to. [[Applauds]] But there's still more. Carlos Mur, responsible for the management of Madrid residences, of which we have already spoken, signed the protocols sent by Mrs Ayuso's Government to prohibit certain patients who had a physical or mental disability from being transferred from the residences to the hospital. It was not a recommendation or suggestions, Your Honor, it was an order of the President, which you hold and to which you will re-make President if you add majority on May 4. And this is very serious because, as I told you, if residences were not radicalized and at the same time prohibited certain critical residents from being transferred to the hospital, anyone can guess what the result is. I literally read you some of the orders: 'NO patients who meet the following criteria will be referred to the hospital.' And then the list of criteria. 'The patients who do not have the following characteristics, which would be EXCLUSIVE CRITERIA, will be referred to the hospital.' Exclusion criteria in capital letters in the original text, Your Honor. What I have just read to you is the literality of the protocols for which you are politically responsible. Do you know how you described these protocols in your day that you were then a social policy adviser to Mrs Ayuso, the government you support, Mr Reguero? Unmoral and possibly illegal. I, Your Honor, have nothing to add. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u160	Mr. Churches, do you know who asked you? Perhaps, as you have not looked at me throughout the speech, you have not realized that I am Maria Ruiz Solás and that I am a VOX deputy, not a member of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Mr Iglesias, all that you have told us was your responsibility, not the Community of Madrid alone; it was your responsibility as a minister. [[Applauds]] Lord Churches, as always, blablabla. Always the same, defamations, lies and slanders. Where are your arguments? Where are your arguments? This is much simpler than all that, much simpler. Have you improved the living conditions of the elderly in the time you have been in government? Yes or no? What have you done for them? Do you have better residences? Do you have better care? Do you have better attention? Do you think they have been treated as they deserved during the pandemic? Do you have decent pensions? Has anything changed, Mr. Churches? Has anything changed? No, it hasn't changed anything and that's his failure; it's his failure, he leaves having failed, don't give him any more turns. I'm sure like you too, St. Augustine, you'll know it's in humility where justice is fulfilled, so get to know it. [[Applauds]] Know it and do not insist with your verbal violence, and above all do not lie to us, because you have a double heart, the double heart of the liar: one, who knows what is true and shuts up and, another, who says thinking and knowing that it is false. But if you think your lies hurt us, you're very wrong; every improv that comes out of your mouth only hurts you, believe me. It is rather pathetic to conclude that, in the end, you are not even a communist or a feminist and that you have only turned out to be a bourgeois macho. [[Applauds]] A macho and capricious bourgeois who moves only for personal interests, who believes that he can dispose of the women of his environment at his will and who in the background does not bear that a woman dares to come up here and ask about his management. I am sorry, Mr. Iglesias, but it is my obligation to do so, it is my obligation to come here to defend the dignity of our elders on behalf of my parliamentary group and of all the Spaniards whom we represent; the dignity of those elders whom you are not interested in because they do not vote for you, because they do not come out to burn containers to your order, because they do not serve you for your purposes. Those older ones you plan to corner by socializing evil within our families with your terrible Law of Euthanasia. For they do serve us, Mr. Iglesias; they serve us very much and, therefore, we want them alive, we want them healthy, we want them happy and we want them decently located in the place they deserve, in a place of honor, Mr. Iglesias; in a place of honour. [[applause]] So, if you don't want to fight for them, don't do it; don't do it, just go easy that we already do it. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u161	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Just over five years ago, I took the floor in this democratic rostrum for the first time and my first words of thanks were for the generations of Spaniards and Spaniards who played their lives and who played their freedom to give back the stolen democracy. The people left of those generations are combing grays today. And I want my last words in this democratic rostrum, this time as Vice-President of the Government, to be a tribute to those generations of Spaniards and Spaniards who fought against fascism, for freedom and for social justice. For they were, we are; for we are, they will be. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion takes his hand to the heart and then lifts his fist.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Comú Poder-Galicia in common, standing.-Applause of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, with some ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the European Parliament standing.-Applause of the members of the Government present, some of them standing.-Applause of Mr Iglesias Turrion addressed to the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United We can-In Comú Poder-Galicia in common and Socialist]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I'm sure we'll all miss it. Thank you. [[Rumors]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the reasons the Government has to amend THE LABORAL REFORM. [[File number 172/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u164	We turn to the following point: urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the Government's reasons for changing labour reform. For your defence, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz Clavijo has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u165	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Minister, it has been many days, I would say that weeks, announcing to drum and platter one day yes and another also that it will repeal the labor reform of the year 2012, which promoted and approved the People's Party. Meanwhile, we live as the third vice president disowns her without any blush and says exactly the opposite. This question has as reason to cast doubt and to know who we have to believe, Minister, if we have to believe the current third vice president or'if we have to believe the next third vice president; if we have to believe what the Minister of Labour says in Spain or if we have to adjust to what the Minister of Economy says in Brussels. In short, what you are constantly announcing in a coup d'état is your abrogation, and so it was again announced during last Monday's appearance - the Commission, by the way, to which it did not even look in the last year - and which had been asked on various occasions, which shows how little you care about that Commission. But, in the end, come or don't come, from your rivalries, fights or mutual denials between you and Calviño, all we care about is that this context is creating uncertainty and insecurity in the labour market, uncertainty and insecurity that have a direct impact on job creation in our country. And what we hope from this inquiry is that you will clear up all those doubts and at once give up a reform that is not going to bring any good to this country. In short, you are repeating a context that is already very common in the Council of Ministers, it is exactly the same case that this continuous confrontation between Mr Ábalos and the so far responsible for social policies, Mr Iglesias, in the field of housing and regulatory chaos and insecurity, again an element of uncertainty that affects investment in our country. Madam Minister, you are therefore a scarecrow government for everything that has to do with investment and our international credit, and without those two elements this country can hardly have a future, the future that the Spanish deserve. Therefore, what we would like to know here today is why and what reasons you have for wanting to repeal a reform that is a successful reform, one of the most successful structural reforms of our democracy, and we do not say this because it is demonstrated, by the People's Party, but because it is supported by national and international organizations without exception, and at the moment, with the work and, therefore, human drama that our country is experiencing, you should leave. The latest employment and affiliation data published in February are a clear reflection of what is happening in our country, the dramatic situation in Spain and the labour market. 400,000 jobs have been lost, 102 000 companies, mainly SMEs, have been closed down, and the unemployed have increased by 763,000. And to all this we have to add the 900,000 Spaniards who are in ERTE's position and the 361,000 self-employed who are in the process of ceasing their activity, without counting those who are already forecasting that there will be another 300 000 at the end of the year. In short, the current situation in our country, in Spain, is almost 6 million Spaniards who want to work and cannot, and that is a tragic fact. In the face of this tragic fact, what needs to be assessed is whether the reforms you are proposing are the right ones. We are a reformist party, we do not oppose reforms, on the contrary, we believe in them, but counter-reforms are what would lead us to step back. Surely today you will tell us that the cause of this data, of this occupational drama, is the pandemic, and I do not deny it, we do not deny that the pandemic has had some consequences in the economic crisis and that it is having them in the labour market, but, Minister, if the pandemic is global, why does it affect Spain more than other countries? There's the key, there's the key. [[Applauds]] And when we see it, that key is you, the government. Yes, Minister, not only you, I do not blame you directly - although you have your share - because you add up to a disastrous economic policy. Where are the direct aid to companies not to be as we are compared to the rest of the European countries? Where is the vaccination policy that will lead us to reach the figures we need so that recovery can be carried out at the necessary pace? Where are health policies to combat the pandemic that are unique in Spain and that therefore provide certainty? That is where I have to tell you that your responsibility is shared with the rest of the members of the Government. The comparison leads us to see that Spain is one of the countries with the worst employment data in Europe, and we will prove it with concrete data: Eurostat and 2020. We are the country with the second highest unemployment rate in the European Union, 16.2%. Spain, unfortunately, closed 2020 as the country where unemployment among women grew the most. We are the second most unemployed country in Europe, 18.4%. This means widening inequality, more wage gap between women and more differences between men and women. And women what we want is a job; we want independence, we want freedom and we want equal opportunities, and that, Minister, is achieved through reforms that go to the BOE and that really promote this progress and this job recovery. And, unfortunately, we are also leading youth unemployment. We are the country of the European Union with the youngest unemployed, with a worrying rate of 40.7%, something that our country cannot afford because it means that we are giving up having a future for the rest of the Spaniards. Do you want us to believe that your poor management has nothing to do with you? That you are not responsible for having the worst unemployment figures in the European Union in Spain? And to all this it must be added that the only measure that you have applied and that has proved effective has been the ERTE. It must be recognized that this has been an effective measure and that it is assuming that Spain has a better situation than we would have if we did not have that instrument, but why have you not done something more for the employability of the Spaniards than applying the ERTE, which come in addition to the labor reform that you want to repeal as you tell us every time you can? What have you done for young people's employment? Where, for example, are the plans to prevent youth unemployment? What have you done for female employment? What are you proposing so that the situation that is being generated in our country can be postponed? I'll answer it: nothing. Or, at least, not enough for things to go in another direction. Furthermore, we cannot talk about what would have to be one of the most important instruments, SEPE, and today, Minister, we also want you to tell us what the situation of SEPE is. At the last appearance on 22 February, you stated in a solemn manner that no recipient of benefits managed by the Public State Employment Service would be affected by the computer attack suffered by that agency. We are already talking about 150,000 collectors who will not charge in April in time. What are you going to do? Because it is also necessary to reform there. Why is SEPE not provided with sufficient technical, economic and human resources to address the unfortunate situation in which this body is located? [[Applauds]] That at the moment there are people who do not know how they are going to face the payment of their mortgage or the payments they have to face by a computer failure of their responsibility, of an agency that you run and have no solutions, is not presentable in a country like Spain. It is regrettable that SEPE is now synonymous with colossalness, uncertainty, despair and mistrust. Minister, do you intend to repeal or dismantle labour reform? We are talking about labour reform, which is employment reform, and it is not something we say and we defend only the People's Party, you are constantly told by national and international bodies. In addition, let me remind you, if Vice President Calviño herself has not already done so, that Standard and Poor's has announced that it will lower Spain's rating if this reform is repealed. Are you willing to assume that wear and tear and risk for Spain? Spain does not deserve you to assume it because we will pay all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, Minister, I think it is good that you know what the main objectives of that 2012 labour reform were. It was right to establish a new framework for labour relations that favours a more efficient and employment-friendly labour market dynamic. And that context has not changed; on the contrary, it has become sharper. The situation in our country right now needs just that: more flexibility, more negotiating capacity, more capacity within the company to adopt flexible mechanisms, more efficiency and an enabling environment for employment. Therefore, this desire to destroy everything that has been built will not be good for the Spaniards or for those nearly six million Spaniards who are in a desperate situation. We need to change the course, you need to change the course of your labour policies and the intentions that one day tells us yes and another also have in your head and in your political agenda. It is time to think about employment reforms, and if the 2012 reform worked, it is not the time to dismantle it, it is the time to strengthen it, it is the time to equip it with more instruments that make it even more effective to deal with the unfortunate situation that we are living in our country. The key right now, Minister, is to create more and better jobs. That's got to be the way. That is our sign of identity and the Spaniards know perfectly well that we are able to do so from this party. This Party lends its hand to it if you want, but not to dismantle what has worked. We reach out to him to improve what has worked and make it viable for a labour market that requires new instruments. Nothing is the same as in 2020. This pandemic has changed us all, but it has also changed the labour market in our country. Therefore, it is not a question of returning to formulas that have already failed in the past, but of relying on formulas that have been successful in the most recent past to project them into the future and meet the new challenges that our labour market has. I am convinced that you, who are a sensitive person, are well aware that the labour market has many challenges, that of digitisation and other challenges that are not even yet written, and that the opportunity that this country has part to be able to have political height not to repeal what others did because they were not of tuideology, but to think about how to strengthen it and do it with them in addition so that the Spaniards have the opportunity they deserve. Let us hope that today you will be able to give us answers, but above all we would like this appearance to serve to clear up the uncertainty in which you have plunged into the labour market, because with confidence and certainty there will be a future for Spain, and today you have the opportunity to park here a counter-reform that will bring nothing new to the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u167	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, President. Mrs. Gamarra, thank you for your words. You already know my firm conviction and determination to engage in constructive dialogue, and you also know my firm commitment that parliamentary debates serve our society. After all your exhibition I'll tell you one thing, Your Honor. There is something we both agree on: Spain has a very high rate of unemployment and precariousness and we must jointly respond to it. According to the EPA, 16.1%. Here's the thing. However, this fact, Mrs Gamarra, is inferior to that of all quarters in EPA terms of the government of Mariano Rajoy, and to that of all quarters during which the People's Party has ruled. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it is with the largest fall in GDP in the last century. The current figure, with the largest fall in GDP, is much better than that of the Mariano Rajoy era. But it is true, the figure is very bad, although that figure is lower than the average unemployment in the last forty years. I'm going to give you another data. Between 1979 and 2020, the average unemployment rate was 17.1%, but I still say that the data is bad. I'll tell you something else, Your Honor. You will never see this minister denying reality. I believe that an important value of public officials is honesty and the first thing I want to do is to recognize the problems in order to be able to deal with them. For forty years we have had very poor unemployment and temporaryity data, the worst in Europe. Spain is a genuine anomaly - I agree with you - in the field of advanced countries. During these decades it has been the biggest problem in Spain in the opinion of our citizens. It is not very understandable that we have not been able to respond to the biggest problem in Spain, which remains one of the great outstanding subjects of our democracy. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that we have any worse workers or that they are more vague or that we do not have any worse businesses either. I believe that we have given profoundly inadequate political answers. For a long time the dogma was imposed that the best way to create employment was a labour market without rules. The idea that without labour constraints employment would increase has been a great unfulfilled promise; indeed, a great deception. Not only was employment not created, Miss Gamarra, but the existing one was degraded. We have extended the precariousness. I will give you a data that is demolishing: half of the employees in our country - of 16.5 million workers, half - have a temporary, precarious contract, an unwanted or rotating part-time contract, in this Spanish specialty, between unemployment and precarious work. Unemployment and precariousness are two dimensions of the same problem. For the vast majority, moments of unemployment are intertwined with precarious contracts as a reality that is indistinguishable, a distressing situation that does not allow them to develop a life project. It matters the amount, Mrs Gamarra, but also the quality of the job. Choosing, as Mrs Fatima Báñez said, between unemployment and precariousness cannot be an option for this Government. It is not for working people, it is not for businesses and it should not be for labour policies. And this is where you have to place your labor reform as the most extreme and dogmatic recipe of this period. The Royal Decree Law 3/2012, of 10 February, has been a sort of negative labour policy. It was reduced to three things: deregulating, devaluing and unprotecting. In other words, cut workers' rights, reduce wages and reduce benefits just when they were most needed. All this with the lure of creating a job that never came. When precariousness became widespread unemployment was still there, Mrs Gamarra. Look, I'm going to quote Mrs. Fatima Báñez in Parliament, I'm not saying it, she was saying it on March 26, 2013, and I think her words are enlightening. It was like this: After a year of labour reform we have to focus - and I read literally - on the urgency of those 6 million unemployed in Spain. And she said: This government did not say that labour reform would create jobs when the economy was in recession. She made it very clear that, as you know, Mrs. Fatima Báñez served her job reform, which was not to create jobs, but rather to devalue wages, as you know very well. [[Applauds]] And indeed, Royal Decree 3/2012 has succeeded in degrading employment in our country. It has been - let me tell you this - an unjust reform, it has served to increase inequality and to increase poverty, and even worse: it has been ineffective because it has increased unemployment; 6278 000 unemployed when it ruled Mariano Rajoy. It was a bad reform for working people and very bad for the economy. Your Honor, since 2012 more than 166 million employment contracts have been registered - I'm sure you know it - in SEPE's offices. I ask you a question: do you think this fact can be assumed? This is the labour market that we have been left with and I do not think anyone can be satisfied, because 91% of these contracts are temporary and one in four lasts less than seven days. Note: 42 million contracts signed in these years do not reach even a week's duration. Royal Decree-Law 3/2012 did not solve any of these structural problems that has been dragging our labour market for decades. It did not serve to create employment, as ex-Minister Fatima Báñez herself acknowledged in the parliamentary seat, because, as the members of the People's Party know very well, 1122,800 jobs were destroyed in the first year of the reform of the People's Party. You said your party creates jobs and they always say the left destroys it. [[The lady]] Let's see, another fact: in February of this year 2021, after - I repeat - the biggest fall in GDP in our history, there are half a million more affiliates than in February of 2018, the last February in which the People's Party ruled. [[Applauds]] It did not serve its reform to reduce unemployment because, as I told you, unemployment increased by more than a million people to that historical figure, its lure: 6278,200 unemployed people in the first quarter of 2013. The unemployment rate reached 26.9% in your term of office, Mrs Gamarra, and the average during the six years of the government of Mariano Rajoy the unemployment rate was 22.4%. But not only that, Mrs Gamarra, we have 40% youth unemployment rate, you left it at 56.9%. Nor did your reform, Mrs Gamarra, serve to reduce the duality of the labour market that you were talking about today, because the rate of temporaryity went from 23.4 to exactly 27.4 in your term of office. A 4-point increase, Mrs Gamarra, exacerbating our differential precisely with the European average. Many temporary and very short-term contracts, because the average duration of these 166 million contracts fell from 63 days in 2011 to 52 days in 2017, with an increasing weight of increasingly short contracts. The malfunction of our labour market is summed up in one sentence: every Friday of every week of every month of every year the membership of Social Security is reduced, which usually goes back up on Mondays. It is clear that your reform has not served what you have said here. It has served, as Mrs Báñez and the Banco de España acknowledged, to devalue wages. And speaking of wages, see, in 2011 wage earners in Spain accounted for 49.2% of national income; in 2017, ruling the People's Party, that percentage fell to 45.3%. There are 4 points less employee participation in the income distribution, which in absolute figures amounts to a loss - listen to it - of €46.5 billion each year in wage income. A wage devaluation that particularly affected those who already had less income because the first of the deciles, that of the people who receive less, lost 21 % of their purchasing power in 2013. The result was an unacceptable increase in something very sad, labor poverty. The poverty risk rate in people with employment increased from 11.6 in 2012 to 14.8 in 2015, with more than 2.5 million people in this situation. In fact, poor women workers, because they are women the vast majority of those people who are in the first decile, who also suffered the deterioration of social protection. Remember, Mrs Gamarra, that royal decree-law, on 20/2013, which brutally cut unemployment benefits in our country, falling to its historical minimum? In addition, they did something dramatic in our country, cut public unemployment benefits when they were needed most and stopped dramatically implementing 9812 million euros that you had budgeted. But besides the content, the important thing is the form. You know that your labor reform was against social dialogue, collapsed a previous agreement of social agents, was questioned by international agencies, caused, Mrs Gamarra - do not forget - two general strikes in our country and besides you were fought in a cruel way with the Penal Code in hand, with that article 315.3, which fortunately this Congress has just repealed. [[Applauds]] Mrs Gamarra, I believe that the positions of the People's Party have been unilateral. What has our government done? The opposite of what you said here. On the way in, do it and don't undo it. We've deployed the greatest protection in history. You were talking about ERTE; I am not going to extend into the social protection we have given. What I am saying is that we are concerned about the present and the future and that we have not come here to dismantle anything; on the contrary, we want to rebuild labour law, that the labour market returns to the law and the Constitution, because it is time, as we have shown with the ERTE, to return to European solutions. And I'm done, Mrs. Gamarra. I am shocked that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has not voted in favour of the ratification of the European Social Charter by Spain, a letter which, as you know, is like a kind of social constitution shared by many governments, also by conservative governments in Europe. That framework should be a meeting place. If you are out of it, as you have done by voting against it, it is very difficult for us to reach agreements, but for my part...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u168	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u169	...they will always find receptivity and of course I would like now, in the reply, to make proposals that would have to do with the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u171	Well, look, minister, the truth is that this inquiry should have served us to get out of doubt about what reforms you want to make. It has devoted itself to questioning and criticizing the whole stage of the People's Party at the head of the Government. What I wish you is that at the end of this term you can reach half of what you did for Spain and the Fatima Báñez labor market. If you manage to get there, you can give up. [[Applauds]] The labor reform promoted by this party in the Government of Spain in 2012 has had the recognition of social partners and various national and international bodies, even ratified by Europe. Obviously, if I may, you have to make him look because he's going in the opposite direction. Madam Minister, there is no blinder than the one who does not want to see, there is nothing more to go to the figures. I have given you the data a while ago, but we are talking about 400 000 jobs, 102 000 closed companies, 763,000 Spanish unemployed, not forgetting, Minister - because you do not count it, but are not working - have been destroyed in the last year, that there are 900 000 jobs in ERTE and the danger that if you do not take measures or make reforms in that direction, these ERTEs can become ERAs, as you well know. Furthermore, we are talking about 361,000 self-employed people who are already out of business, but if you don't make some proper reform for them - you haven't told us any - they could reach 661,000 self-employed people out of business. These are the real figures that this country has right now. If you do not like our policies, as you have told us that they are extremist and demagogic, think of the 500,000 jobs that have been created in the last five years of the People's Party's mandate. [[Applauds]] Tell the 1,400 people who found work a day that they were extremists and demagogics. Tell that to all the women who recovered the job that had been destroyed during the previous crisis, which was actually generated by a socialist government. In addition, tell those women who recovered their work during that stage with that reform that you say was extremist and dogmatic but who have lost it during this time with you at the head of the Ministry of Labour. [[Applauds]] This is the reality that this country is experiencing, no matter how much you want to cover the figures. I hope you get what another government led by the People's Party has got, because it will be good for Spain and for the Spaniards, and it is to lead the declines of unemployment throughout the euro area for fifty-two months and in a chained way. That was achieved by a party, the People's Party, Minister, in the Government of Spain with that reform which you question but which has been effective and efficient. Because for us effectiveness is not the figures, the effectiveness is that there are men and women who with that reform found a job with which they were free and had opportunities. That's what we have to keep pushing. You've spent 12 minutes questioning all that, but have you told us something that you're going to do so that all those people, those nearly 6 million Spaniards who want to work and can't, are going to get it? That's the key and that's what we need to talk about here today. I hope you will give us some answers, because you have not done so until now. You tell us about reforms. Of course, reforms are needed, but reforms that go in the direction of active employment policies and that are developed since SEPE. First fix SEPE to respond to those who are not going to receive the benefit in April in time. You speak of social shield, but the first has to be for those people. Think also of those reforms that are necessary. We also need plans to combat youth unemployment. You have already been in charge of the ministry for a year. Do you have any plans to present the young Spaniards, or is the only plan to tell them that 40% of the young Spaniards are going to be on unemployment lists? That's not a plan, it's telling them they have no future, neither for them nor for their families. Madam Minister, what we urge you to do and what we want you to do is to tell us here when, how and with whom you are going to carry out a job reform and to confirm whether you are going to counter-reform and repeal what has worked or if you are going to push for reforms to strengthen it. You spoke about social dialogue and wanted to give us some lesson, but the biggest symbol of the lack of social dialogue has happened with this government and in this House and was the signature of the Social Party with Bildu of the repeal of labour reform. [[Applauds]] I didn't know Bildu was a social worker and that the dialogue between the two...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u172	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u173	...it was the social dialogue table. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u175	Mrs Gamarra, I told your party on one occasion - and I say it again - that it would be good, to remove Sustene Pereira, to stop frequenting the past and to move on to frequenting the future. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you again today because I think it's very positive. For the sake of this country: abandon the past and try to help alleviate the problems that drag the labour market of our country. [[Rumors]] Look, I'm not here to give you lessons with the data, nor you with me; I've given you official data and data from the European Union itself. I have rewritten the history of the People's Party and, indeed, its data has been demolishing, and I think it is unthinkable. What we must do together in this House and with the help of social dialogue is to try to solve the problems. Your Honor, do you think that with exhausted formulas, as I have shown you, proven in your failure, we are going to lead the problem of unemployment in Spain? Isn't that enough for you? Do you think that persisting in mistakes instead of learning from them, which is what the Democrats do, is a solvent way to move forward? Do you think if we keep adding one plus one the result will be at some point different from two? I'm sure you don't, Mrs. Gamarra. Your accounts didn't go out then, Your Honor, and they don't go out now. Unprotected workers have never been a solution to any crisis, on the contrary, they have left us figures of unemployment and temporaryity which we do not want to be repeated; they have left us, as I have said, half of our country's employees in precarious situations; they have left us a record millionaire of temporary contracts and an unemployment rate of 27 % in their mandate. I was talking about the self-employed, Mrs Gamarra, and in this mandate and with this crisis the affiliations of the self-employed have grown, while during your term we have lost 551,000. To whom exactly do you address when you try to paint in color the evil dream of your policies? Were we not here, Mrs. Gamarra, to see it and to suffer it? You think we weren't here? What do you think would have happened in this country, Your Honor, if we hadn't repealed Article 52(d), which allowed people to be fired when they were on sick leave? Can you imagine what would have happened in this pandemic? What do you think would have happened if we had not deployed the ERTE or had not given benefits or subsidies, as we have done, also protecting the self-employed and the fixed discontinuous? I tell you without irony, Mrs. Gamarra, what do you propose to me? Don't do anything? Keep anchoring in the past? That you're trying to re-edit the mistakes with another title? What does life look like while working people and Europe demand different solutions and responses to their own? You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have put a stone in the way of this country and we have had to do so every day with a lot of effort and with legislation going in the opposite direction. Meanwhile, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with a commitment worthy of Sisyphus, continue to drag the stone that blocks the road and throw it again and again into a loop as sterile as it is purposeless. I'll finish, Your Honor, by reading a quote from a poet I've admired since I was a child, Gloria Fuertes. I'll read you these verses. She said, 'They said to me, 'You either get in the car or you'll have to push it. / I didn't get up or push him. / I sat in the gutter and around me, / in due time, / popped the poppies. ' Believe me, Mrs Gamarra, with all affection, I deeply respect contemplative life, but at another time and in another context. It will agree with me and this Government that with these figures of unemployment, precariousness and temporaryity in the midst of a global crisis, the time of the poppy has passed. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to get in the car or push it, as Gloria Fuertes said. Do something between the two options that give us. We, the Government of Spain, are already doing so with hope in this country and every day, believe me, with more rights for working people. I'm on my way. Mrs Gamarra, I understand that you are informed, like the groups in the House, of the Component 23 that the Spanish Government has referred to Europe; there are 17 structural reforms and 10 investments. If the main opposition party doesn't know what reforms are going to be made, I'm really going to worry, I'm telling you honestly. And, Madam President, with all due respect to the House, I would like to say goodbye with all the affection of my friend Pablo Iglesias. Pablo, I want to thank you and I want to quote Albert Camus, to bid you farewell in this House. [[Rumors.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Time!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u176	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u177	The philosopher Albert Camus said that there were people who did not stand on the side of those who make history, but instead stand on the side of those who suffer it. Thank you, Paul, because your trajectory has always shown that you do this last one. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u178	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on what measures the Government intends to adopt in order to clarify [[EAJ-PNV]] THE TRUTH ABOUT MIKEL ZABALZA'S DEATH GUARATE. [[File number 173/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u179	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, on what measures the Government intends to take in order to clarify the truth about the death of Mikel Zabalza Garate. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, this motion seeks to establish the truth, which is what we can and must offer a victim's family. This motion goes neither against the institutions nor against the police or against the rights of any other victim, starting with those of ETA, to know the truth. I say this in advance, because surely some of the interveners will want to embarrass the ground with things that have nothing to do with, even taking out posters. This motion is also part of a consensus; a consensus in the parliamentary sphere to clarify the case. This is the case of the death of a detainee, along with others, who is taken to Intxaurrondo. The other people, after a series of days, are released without charge, and Mikel Zabalza does not appear, until, in the end, he does it in the river Bidasoa, but without it being established that the cause of death is precisely drowning in the water of the river and, of course, under strange circumstances that do not match the parameters of police operation. Following the appearance of audios, whose existence and transcription was already known, but which denied those involved and the Government itself, and which, therefore, were rejected even as evidence, this case comes back to date; some audios that say: What is your impression? My impression is that in the interrogation, possibly, it was a cardiac arrest as a result of the plastic bag in the head. I think they've stayed. It's just that there comes a time when you're breathing your carbon monoxide and then you're drowning. The sphincters open to him and the guy drowns. And on top of it, he's looking at us. Because it's not really that he doesn't see anything, because, after all, it's like he's submerged in a spot. I mean, otherwise, no. The hood must be transparent for him to see the life and feeling of death he is taking. This, coldly, was said by one of the police officers, who later appears to have appeared in Honduras. There is consensus in Navarre, in the Parliament of Navarre, of all the political forces, in the City of Pamplona and in the City of Donostia to be investigated. Mrs Chivite has made it very clear, she has spoken of the fact that our obligation is to commit ourselves to the defence of the victims of terrorism, of the victims of any kind of violence and violation of human rights, to investigation, justice, reparation and truth. Worse than Navarra Suma's spokesman - and a member of UPN, but also a spokesman for Navarra Suma and the People's Party - last week, on Thursday, he said in the Navarra Parliament: I do not object to the fact that in certain cases where there may have been clear indications of abuse, the secret is lifted in order to investigate the facts. We are in favour of a thorough investigation of the events surrounding the death of Mikel Zabalza. Navarra Suma, in the Parliament of Navarra. Well, we are now in Congress, and Congress is closer to the Government of the State, and we have to move from words to facts, because between the functions of this Parliament is the impulse and the orientation to the work of the Government, and there is a socialist amendment, but with all due respect, Mrs Araujo, it seems to me to be a hollow amendment. It's like saying, well, let the facts be clarified, let them be investigated by the competent. Is it not the government of the state? Does the Government of the State, the police, not investigate other crimes, including those of ETA, terrorism, etc., but also any other kind of crime? Doesn't the government have to investigate? And the D.A.'s office, doesn't this affect the D.A.'s office? Something can also be said to the Prosecutor's Office. Or does it not affect this Parliament, which has in its hands an impetus for these facts to be clarified? Of course it can be done, because it is not worth saying, like the minister, that this is a matter for the courts, that this is clarified by the judiciary. I insist, isn't the police investigating? Is it not possible to lift the veil of the classified secret of documents that may be around the case? Or is it that a government will do the same again no less than the Socialist Party and Podemos? Will it have to happen as in the Lasa and Zabala case, which had to be the Supreme Court, already out of shame torera, that will force to raise the classified secret of the documents around the case? It's getting back on the road without knowing how it ends up in the family, when it's being said from all the political formations that the case is being clarified. Well, then, let's do everything in our hand, everything that's possible. The truth is that it is also the responsibility of this House to find that truth. Today in the Senate there will be another statement on the subject presented by Geroa Bai, a formation of which we are part. The declaration reproduces the text of the Parliament of Navarre, and I am convinced that it will be in favour; if not, it would be a great contradiction to what was voted on in Navarre, for example. But this House is obliged to take one more step, to tell the government that yes, that it can do, that it can help clarify the case, that it cannot stay in a sort of Pilates amendment or Pilates declaration: Yes, yes, that it is investigated, that the truth is found, but I know nothing, I can do nothing. Of course this Parliament can, of course the government can directly! We can ask Parliament - and this is what we are asking you to focus exclusively on in this case - to lift the secret rating on any documentation that was even denied by a minister - even denied its existence - but we have seen that this documentation exists, and surely there will be more; in this case, the audios. And we can also ask the Government to urge the Prosecutor's Office to initiate proceedings; we can do so, we can do it now. Perhaps some will say - yesterday I heard it - that the state has to defend itself and will start mixing things. Was Mikel Zabalza not a state? Should the State not protect him and protect his family now and seek the truth? We are not in the transition, let us act like a full democracy if we really believe it, let us urge the Government and the Office of the Prosecutor. It is our competence; ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u181	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u182	It's the only thing we can offer the victim's family, the truth. Nothing more, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mrs Araujo Morales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u184	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Esteban, last week I heard your question to the Minister of the Interior and I understood him, I understood him. Evidently, who is not going to empathize with the story you brought to this House, with the facts you have reported again today? There will be some. And I understood, and it has become clear, that there is still an open wound, an emotional and social wound that has not only been closed but is still bleeding, about facts that did not have the expected answer, that have not had any reparation or truth. But the truth is that the rule of law has acted, and there is no better evidence of it than, since the events took place, the courts have acted. You know, like me, that from Montesquieu our Constitution captures the separation of powers; moreover, it is clearly defined in our supreme norm, divided by titles and clearly specifying the competences of each one. The judiciary emanates from the people and is administered by judges and courts, and it is up to them to provide justice independently and with the sole subjection to the rule of law. And the Legislative Power, which is the one we all represent here today, is the one we exercise. The preamble to our Constitution clearly reflects the consolidation of a rule of law that will serve for the independence and relations between the powers of the State, making clear the value that the parents of our Constitution gave to the separation of powers as a source of the rule of law that, together with the notes of social and democratic, make necessary and represent in a key way what constitutes the essence of the Spanish State. With all this that I have just said to you, I want to move that, in fact, we empathize with you and with that feeling of frustration for what you think is not fair. In fact, we share it not only in this case, but in all those who have been left without an answer or justice to these and other so many victims, whatever they may be, come from wherever they come from. And from the Socialist Group we value it because that spirit is what socialists put into practice when we fight inequalities, when we work for and to improve people's lives, but we do it by accepting the rules of the game, assuming the role that we play and respecting judicial decisions, however unfair they sometimes seem. In the case that you raised the rule of law acted, the courts acted, conducted the investigation, took statements, closed, reopened, reopened, closed again, so, despite what many might think, the rule of law - our rule of law - acted. Even the listenings, which are now considered new, were already in their time, in 2004, brought to the corresponding organ and rejected their evidentiary value, both the No. 1 Court of San Sebastián and the Provincial Court of Guipúzcoa. So, they're not new. That is why today we wanted to join the spirit of the agreement reached in the Parliament of Navarre. I regret that you understand that the amendment we are proposing today is a hollow amendment; it reflects almost literally that agreement which was taken up in the Parliament of Navarre and which was adopted unanimously. That, moreover, literally pointed out that, after the appearance of some audios in which intervenes the captain of the Civil Guard Gómez Nieto and the then chief colonel of the Cesid, Juan Alberto Perote, the contents of them are thoroughly investigated in order to know the truth. That is why we are presenting this amendment, urging the competent public authorities to clarify this fact, asking that it be investigated, as it cannot be otherwise. We understand that if the judicial bodies consider that there is evidence to reopen the case, this must be done. I am convinced of this because I firmly believe in our strength as a State and fully trust in the independence and responsibility of our judiciary. Anything else would weaken our separation of powers and, as you will understand, the Socialist Group is not going to contribute to that. That is why I ask you, Mr Esteban, for a final effort to accept this amendment and for us today to be able to give that unity as a response to the clarification of these facts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs. Araujo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We, of course, understand that the families of all people who have died in a way, as in this case, unclear, have the right to know everything that happened, how it happened and, of course, whether there are third persons responsible, logically, to make them available to justice. That's what we think it is and we understand it with anyone. What we cannot do is be advantageous; that is, what we cannot do is go out here and say what the Navarra Parliament has adopted, but present something different from what the Navarra Parliament has adopted. And that's what the PNV has done. What the Parliament of Navarre approved is the Socialist Party's amendment, that's what the Parliament of Navarre approved, not what the PNV says. It's said here that we won't be embarrassed, but we already want to be pro-winners. Because they said what they said. And why was that said? Because this issue has already been judged and it has been reopened. The Socialist spokesman has explained this very well. And what happened? That when the courts say something we don't like, then those courts are franchisors. If we like what the courts say, it's okay, but if we don't like what the courts say, then let's go to the courts. That new things appear and should be investigated? For it will have to be the ones who investigate, not tell them what they have to do. They'll know. But I'll tell you more. He said we shouldn't take this as a matter of fact. Yeah, and why are they bringing him to Parliament, why are they bringing him to Congress? If it's one more issue, if it's one person more than hundreds of people in Spain who have died under different circumstances than normal, why do they bring him to Congress? Because you know that, once again, here you can pick up something. And you can pick it up because you know that here they are going to say that in Spain it was being tortured, that it was a usual practice and that, on the one hand, there were the State Security Forces and Corpses and that, on the other hand, there was the terrorist band ETA and then there were two sides and then the story... Yes, yes, don't mind me, Mr. Esteban, you know that. You come out good, but you know what's here, how I know it. Then, under no circumstances - and that is why we want it to be investigated - can the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses in Spain be called into question; under no circumstances can they be called into question. The other day in Pamplona, six plates were placed on six people killed by ETA, who were six officials of the State Security Forces and Corpses, and they did so for defending the freedoms of the Spanish people as a whole. [[Applauds]] Now we cannot pretend to speak again of two sides, once again the story. No, there's no account, we need to investigate what needs to be investigated, but we don't...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u187	Mr. Adanero, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u188	...let us question the work of others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor. Mr. BUTRAN PAHISSA: Thank you, President. Certainly, the Spanish police stations continued to be tortured and continued to be tortured after dictator Franco, especially in the Civil Guard barracks. That's a reality and around it has been tried to build some kind of taboo. To know this reality we have access to the testimony of the people who have suffered it, many of them our comrades, also Catalan independenceists; to the investigative work that some journalists did, such as the missing Pepe Rei, who rested in peace, who pointed out all the plots that were focused on Intxaurrondo, or to the work that many NGOs did, such as Action of Christians for the Abolition of Torture or the Coordinator for the Prevention of Torture. But at the institutional level nothing has ever been done, only the Basque institutions, at the time, commissioned a report from forensics Etxeberria, which concluded that only in Euskadi, in those three provinces, between the 1960s and 2014 there had been 4113 complaints of torture - it is a best figure -, within which, of course, the case of Mikel Zabalza is one of the bloodiest, because he ended in death. On the part of the Spanish institutions, however, there has never been a similar initiative, and from the absence of an initiative to try to clarify, there is a cynical argument, that is, there are complaints but there are no convictions. But how will there be convictions if the people responsible for a rigorous, neutral, objective and honest investigation do not take charge? What exists in the Spanish State about torture is a spiral of silence involving police, forensic doctors, judges and politicians. And today we are brought here an opportunity to start breaking, even if it is timidly, even if it is starting with one of the cases where there is more evidence, this spiral of silence. Anyone would say, with the interventions that have been heard and some that will be heard, that the Spanish State does not accumulate judgements of the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating torture. I mean, is there nothing wrong here? Oh no, because the Independenceists say it or because the Basques say it or because the Catalans say it. Man, the European Court of Human Rights does not stop issuing judgments, most of which, by the way, accumulates them, as a negligent judge, the Minister of the Interior today, Mr Marlaska. We will therefore support this motion because it is necessary to break this spiral of silence that in the Spanish State has been tortured after Franco's death, as a systematic practice in the dungeons. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u190	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u191	Madam President. Eguerdi on guztioi. Today this motion calls once again for clarification of the death of Mikel Zabalza Garate, tortured to death by the Civil Guard. And we say once again, because every time this State has been asked to recognize and clarify everything that occurred with the torture of Euskal Herria, the answer has always been denial, silence, obscurantism and oblivion. Just like last week Minister Marlaska did: deny, shut up, hide and forget. How is it possible today to deny the reality of torture, to silence the evidence, to hide the evidence and try to forget it again? Has not the time come to acknowledge that it was unacceptable? Unacceptable and painful. Mr.Marlaska's answer was also unacceptable and painful for a family that is looking for the truth about what happened to Mikel, who is looking for Mikel to finally be recognized that Mikel died as a result of the torture he suffered at the hands of the people who questioned him at the Intxaurrondo barracks; a family that only seeks the recognition of the truth and that longs for justice. Is it so hard to understand? And an unacceptable and painful response also for a large part of the society of Euskal Herria, Navarra and the rest that, for thirty-five years, we have been certain of what happened, although again and again we try to hide. "The fifth time I began to feel hallucinations, I abandoned myself thinking I was dead, I noticed that I was smiling and I felt a strange placidity. On their way back to me, they put a plastic bag on my head strapping to my neck until I suffocated. I thought I was dead again. When I woke up, I heard that one guard said, 'We're staying,' while another examined my nails to see, he said, if they were bruised.' Testimony of Ion Arretxe, arrested on the same day as Mikel Zabalza and collected in an article of the newspaper El País on December 16, 1985. His interrogators, after covering the whole body with two plasticized bags and strapping from top to bottom with ironed paper, repeatedly plunged him into a water channel - a river, probably - until he lost consciousness. That article also followed. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is time to end impunity, that it is time for this State to recognize its responsibility for the pain generated and that it is time for thousands of people who have gone through the horror of torture to find recognition, truth and justice. And not only do we say this, it is demonstrated by various reports made by prestigious professionals and international bodies: the Basque Government, as has been mentioned, with the 4100 certified data and 100 cases of torture; the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced Spain up to eleven times for not investigating allegations of torture; the UN Committee against Torture also warned on numerous occasions of torture in the Spanish State and of the incommunicado detention that permitted and protected it. Despite the above, I would like to end something positive, with a small step that took place last week in Nafarroa. Parliament unanimously called - yes, unanimously - for the case of torture and death of Mikel Zabalza to be thoroughly investigated in order to be able to know the truth. This was followed by the President of Parliament receiving the family of Mikel Zabalza, a family that again called for truth, justice and reparation. I therefore wish to conclude with the hope that this declaration and this consensus with truth and justice for all the victims, including those of torture and deaths caused by the State, will be the first step towards further progress in recognizing all the pain that continues to exist in Nafarroay in Euskal Herria. We hope that today, too, in Congress, a large majority will subscribe to the consensus produced in Navarre to advance in peace and coexistence, to advance in truth, justice and reparation for all victims of suffering, including those who have been forgotten. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u193	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Nationalist Party, which in the past has not been characterized precisely by its ardent condemnation of torture in cases such as the kidnapping of Mr Ortega Lara, brings us a motion to clarify the death of MikelZabalza there in 1985. Our group and our party are liberal and, as such, we always defend the rule of law and human rights above anything, above all of us. We don't look at the DNA or the postal code or the blood group of the victims, Mr. Esteban. We will never cover up, silence or justify any case of torture, abuse of power or terrorism, wherever it comes from and whoever falls, Mr Esteban. Therefore, our parliamentary group is not going to oppose this initiative because we work hard every day for the dignity of the victims, of all the victims. This case, of course, must also be clarified and if there are outstanding responsibilities, they must be demanded - we will be the first to demand them - and the culprits must be brought to justice and pay the consequences. Pay them, ladies and gentlemen, without access to unjustified privileges or hidden pardons just because they are friends of the incumbent politician, privileges that are being given to ETA assassins and that they want to apply also through the back door to those who beat democracy in Catalonia and that are a shame for our democracy. This is also a shame for our democracy, Mr Esteban, but you never say anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of any previous initiative of this kind by the Basque Nationalist Party, because, Mr Esteban, there are more than three hundred ETA documents that have not been resolved and these crimes cause some torture to the families that suffered them. Meanwhile, we approach five prisoners a week, right, Mr. Esteban? We made that kind of deal, that's right. I think this is very sad, Your Honor, and you should think about it. You, like us, do not have much parliamentary quota to bring in motions and it is surprising that of the little you have brought in an initiative like this, given that you have taken it back to the Senate this week. It is difficult to understand the handling of this matter and to leave other things that are certainly more interesting for all its voters, such as the defence of the Basque industry or the financing of infrastructure in the Bilbao region. Or, as we are, they could present an initiative to alleviate the torture of Joaquín Beltrán's relatives, who has been buried under Zaldibar's garbage for 411 days, but, of course, it would be a self-amendment in this case, wouldn't it, Mr. Esteban? This initiative, which interferes with this kind of obsession of the Basque Nationalist Party with the classification of official documents and secrets in Spain, whose reform is currently being processed, generates a kind of double morality of its group that gives us what to think. We are aware that the Official Secrets Act is pre-constitutional and needs reform. We've always supported him. When you have brought this debate, we have supported and dealt with it. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that a country is strong and prosperous when its institutions are strong and citizens believe in and respect them, but we must recognise that this respect must be earned. Today, it is not enough to invoke inherited legitimacy because public opinion demands not only that the institutions fulfil their functions, but also that they be exemplary and transparent because, if not, they suffer from disaffection and that is indeed the foreground of populism. Our group and the party I represent in this rostrum are sincerely committed to the principle of transparency in the institutions. By the way, respect for the law and the institutions is badly supported by bleaching a former terrorist such as Arnaldo Otegi, who shows no regrets and walks through the institutions to become a lobbyist for his former terrorist gang. We understand that institutions can function properly only when citizens perceive them as legitimate and, moreover, worthy of respect. To that end, those of us who are present in them, whether from the Government or from a seat, must set an example. You have no doubt that Citizens are going to lose their skin every day because they are up to it, without buts, without equidistance, but without the double morale of nationalism, Mr Esteban. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u194	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u195	Thank you, President. They know that I have a tendency to analyse why certain policies are adopted, why certain investigations are initiated or why certain information is hidden. Like everything else, Mikel Zabalza's case must be contextualized so that it can be understood why thirty-five years after his death no one has yet been sentenced who killed him. To begin with, it must be understood that this is not an isolated case and that even cases of police abuse in Euskal Herria are not isolated cases. The case of Mikel Zabalza is one of the many cases that have been hidden in the Spanish State, also in the Catalan countries. Everyone accepts that there were tortures during the Civil War and we could even find a consensus on the tortures that occurred during Francoism, but what we must begin to place at the centre of the public debate is that since Franco's death until today there have been and still are cases of torture and also, as at that time, they continue to be hidden. As you know, unlike other European states where fascism governs, in the Spanish state fascism was never defeated; on the contrary, it was agreed with the Francoists. With the constitutional pact, the Francoists were given control in the shadow of the factual powers of the State and they promised to leave behind the atrocities of the dictatorship. Under this new regime, the Francoist elites maintained their power, many of them in strategic political spaces whose positions are elected on the proposal of the Government or the Legislature, i.e. between the two parties that are being turned over by the Government. I am referring to areas such as the Constitutional Court, the Council of State, the Ombudsman, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Attorney General's Office, the Supreme Court or the Court of Auditors. For example, ten of the sixteen judges of the Court of Public Order, the Franco Court, went from the National High Court to the Supreme Court. The police also noted the falseness of this transition. Without going further, Francoist laws are still in force today that allow for the concealment of police abuses where they exist, such as the Official Secrets Act of 1968, which was amended just before the adoption of the Constitution, or the Police Decorations Act 1964, which was only amended to increase the amount of these decorations. I insist that there have been and are cases of torture at the hands of police and public authorities of the Spanish State. It has been noted that the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced the Spanish State eleven times for failing to sufficiently investigate torture. Six of the eleven cases of torture had Minister Marlaska as their judge. It is necessary to be cynical to then appoint the Minister of the Interior of the Spanish State! [[Applauds]] In addition, a report by the Basque Institute of Criminology of the Public University of the Basque Country certified that between 1960 and 2014 a total of 4113 cases of torture were reported only in Euskadi, of which more than 70% had already occurred in democracy. Not to mention all the cases that have not reached the European Court of Human Rights, among which we would find the beatings of 1 October or the beatings in the detention centres of foreigners. First of all, I sincerely wonder - and I think we should ask ourselves all those who are here in this Chamber - how are we supposed to be sure that Republicans, Catalanists, Independenceists, feminists or trade unionists under this bound and well bound regime? Who assures us they won't create a police and media assembly to discredit us? Who assures us that we will have a fair trial? Who assures us that we will not suffer police torture? Mikel Zabalza was not assured and today, thirty-five years later, we are still unable to investigate and judge the culprit of his death, even when an audio has been published between the former colonel of the Cesid Juan Alberto Perote and the captain of the Civil Guard Pedro Gómez Nieto, in which Zabalza is admitted to having died when he was tortured. For Mikel Zabalza, for his family and for the thousands of people tortured in the Spanish State, this case must be reopened and impunity must be brought to an end once again in the face of torture; indeed, those of the Spanish State and also those of the whole world. Right here, in front of Congress, we have a group of Saharans who are demanding respect for the human rights of Lamin Haddi, a political prisoner who is incommunicado and without medical follow-up. [[Applauds]] It is high time that the Spanish Government also assumed its responsibility in these cases and stood in the face of human rights violations throughout the world and especially in Western Sahara. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u197	Dear President, dear colleagues, in the United States, where the death penalty exists, the main associations that oppose the death penalty and want to abolish it do not argue that it is the death penalty itself but that it is still much worse the death row, the situation that a person has to go through waiting for death, psychological ill-treatment. That's something absolutely terrible, even harder than instant death. Today we are addressing in this House the problem of ill-treatment and the harshest levels of ill-treatment that may exist, which is the case with torture. We said last week, speaking of terrorism, that if we learn something or must learn from feminism, it is that against abuse - physical abuse, psychological abuse or even the sad verbal abuse that we see within this House - we must have zero tolerance, absolutely tolerance. That is why it is essential to know the truth and to address the problem of ill-treatment and torture with truth, with wisdom and honesty. If we remember that image of Ortega Lara when he came out of his kidnapping, dramatic, what a level of pain a person can be inflicted, tremendous! If that is tremendous and it is very serious for individuals to do so, for terrorist groups to do so, what can we say when that level of abuse is being applied by public officials themselves, it is being applied by the public servants, when it is being applied by State institutions. It's absolutely creepy. Why? First of all, because public officials, public servants, are given the obligation - and for this they are paid - to guarantee the life and physical integrity of people, and because they are given the use of force precisely to guarantee these fundamental rights of people. The situation that arises when public servants, going against their legal obligations and the principles on which a rule of law is based, apply violence against people and even controlled violence to keep them alive and bring suffering to the extreme or to the exhaustion of those people. This is absolutely intolerable and no democratic State can look elsewhere. Even more serious is the pain that causes families, victims of such persons, because there is also an aggravating factor, and that is that while the other victims can at least prosecute judicially, in this case the State itself often keeps the information, secretes it and prevents the courts from carrying out their work properly. The case of Mikel Zabalza is that of a young Navarro who worked as a driver in San Sebastián, who was arrested along with some friends - who were then released without any charge against them because they had no responsibility whatsoever - and disappeared. Fortunately, there was a society in Gipuzkoa that reacted and started screaming and asking, "Don't I give Mikel?" That citizen reaction of people, of forensic doctors, of people from the San Sebastián courts, of the Gipuzcoan press, who was not a participant, who did not want to be an accomplice and wanted the truth to be recognized in that case, caused that to not be forgotten, and today we have been able to see all that their family, their brothers, have suffered during these tens of years. Finally, it is a real misfortune, a real sadness, what has happened around this case. Today I would like to address the comrades of the Socialist Group and to do so with all the affection, with all the loyalty and with all the affection. Frankly, I believe that democracy must be based on truth and knowledge of truth; I believe that we have the right to reconcile with ourselves; I believe that we have the right to know the truth. The problem - even if they have wanted to raise it here - is not one of separation of powers, it is a problem that one of the powers does not hinder another of the powers from investigating and bringing peace to those families so in need of peace, reconciliation and a little affection and recognition. It is absolutely essential not only to declassify the case of Mikel Zabalza, as requested by the Parliamentary Group of the PNV, but also that it is absolutely essential that we stop obstructing the processing of the Official Secrets Act because it is absolutely inconceivable that, after more than four decades of democracy, we continue with the Official Secrets Act of a military dictatorship...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u198	Mr. Uriarte, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u199	Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u201	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today, the Basque Nationalist Party submits to this House a motion that involves a serious insult and a serious discredit of Spanish justice, the Civil Guard and the fight against terrorism against ETA. So, Mr. Aitor Esteban, of course today you're going to listen to us, today you're going to listen to VOX. On 7 January 2012, the newspaper El Correo published an interview with one of Herri Batasuna's MEPs, Mr Txema Montero, who, among other things, declared - and I quote literally -: The Civil Guard has been the most effective instrument in the fight against ETA. And so it has been, however, as much as we grant this objective recognition absolute authority from whoever was one of the leaders of ETA's political arm, his statements were incomplete because he kept silent about the factor or factors that have weakened this anti-terrorist struggle against the ETA band. From the political-strategic point of view, the PNV has been the great handful in the fight against terrorism since the very birth of the terrorist organization and also at the present time. At first, feeding the thesis of the existence of a supposed good ETA - supposedly the one fighting Franco - and a bad ETA - only emerged later, when the violent and bloody action of ETA also affected his own - but we will talk about that later. At that time, in that of the good ETA, for the PNV the terrorist band was only an organization of young students born-allow me the expression - like their parents, under the shadow of the tree of Guernica, there for 1959. You saw those young people and saw in them the son of Don Nicolás, Julen Madariaga; the nephew of Dona Isabel Larraz, José Mari Eskubi, or the son of the first delegate of the Basque Government in Venezuela, Jokin Gárate. Hence the paternal and self-sufficient compression of the Basque Nationalist Party. Those who maintain the thesis of the existence of that good ETA and that bad ETA - dogmatic truth in the PNV - lie knowingly and only try to justify their early enthusiasm for political crime. The terrorist gang itself made it clear to me that ETA's anti-franchism was only accidental, and so it is literally picked up in the zutik number 24, September 1964. The moral tolerance of the Basque nationalist community towards ETA has been directly proportional to the intolerance shown with the security forces, especially with the Civil Guard, over whom the Basque Nationalist Party has turned its historical grudge, its absolute hatred, for one reason only; because they are the mute and permanent memory of the unity of Spain in the Basque Country. [[Applauds]] And to illustrate the PNV's support for that good ESTA, which they invented, I bring you the cover of the number 25 of their publication Sabindarra, of March 1972, where you can literally read: 'The jackals of the State Spain. [[shows the cover]] Civilian Guard Killer. Channels! Protest rattlesnakes? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The time has come for the language of explosives, crimes can only be answered with crimes. Kill the state? The guardians of the state must be killed!Civil guards are the most representative of the essence of the Spanish state retrograde and feudal'. For those who do not know it, Txabi Etxebarrieta, who is mentioned and qualified as patriot on this cover of Sabin Etxea, of the PNV, not of Herri Batasuna - here they have Sabino Arana along with the motto 'God and old law'-, was one of the material authors of the first deadly attack of ETA, in which a civilian traffic guard, José Antonio Pardines, died, which we continue to have in our memory and in our memory. [[applause]] Only when ETA murdered businessman José María Korta in 2000 - one of ours, in literal words - do we still remember how, in tears, the deputy general of Guipúzcoa Del PNV, Román Sudupe, asked: Why, why, to one of ours? ETA killed a real abertzale, one of our own. Over the past 50 years, the Basque Nationalist Party has questioned and opposed anti-terrorist legislation, the prison policy of dispersal, the deportation or extradition of terrorists, the arrest of the National Bureau of Herri Batasuna, the illegalization of parties, the closure of the daily Egin, the 18/98 summary, and the Basque Nationalist Party has negotiated and signed agreements with ETA, such as the Lizarra Agreement of 1998. [[Shows a document.-Applause]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is Mr. Xabier Arzalluz, in the documentation seized on 12 May 1992 by the Information Service of the Civil Guard of Guipúzcoa, who best expresses that it is the Basque Nationalist Party: I do not know any people who have achieved their liberation without some reindeer and others arguing; some shake the tree, but without breaking it so that the nuts fall, and others collect them to distribute them. If last week's session, at VOX we told them how EH Bildu was trying to win the story battle to achieve that, when we look at Mrs. Mertxe Aizpurua's face, we don't see in her the face of death; today VOX says, loud and clear, that ETA would have been nothing without the complicity of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u202	Mrs. Olona, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u203	Thank you, Madam President. [[It shows an image of Guernica.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u204	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, Mr Esteban, you know very well that the death of Mikel Zabalza was thoroughly investigated by the courts. They know that a court closed this case in 1988; they know that it reopened in 1995 and that it was closed fifteen years later, in 2010, after fifteen years of further and thorough investigation. We are sure, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is new evidence, those courts will reinvestigate it. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, why don't you bring this case here while you disapprove of all the victims of terrorism who have not had a sentence and have not yet had justice, says much of the moral and political problem that Spanish society has. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, your president, Andoni Ortuzar, said this very morning that Spanish democracy has a black hole with the case of Mikel Zabalza. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, you do have a black hole, a terrible black hole, with your indifference to the 376 victims of ETA who have not yet had a sentence, who have not yet had justice. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, you have not brought here a single initiative for the memory and truth of the 376 people killed by ETA who have no sentence, who have no justice. What do you tell your mothers, your parents, your brothers, your children, that you don't even have the comfort of justice? Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, you have been elected in the Basque Country, but what have you done for all the victims of ETA murdered in the Basque Country who have not had justice? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, how many unsolved murders still exist in the Basque country of ETA victims? Do you know how many ETA murders in Gipuzkoa don't have a sentence? 145 have not been resolved. Do you know how many murders in Vizcaya, Mr. Esteban, your land and mine? 133. How many in Alava? 28. How many in Navarra? 14. But it is that, moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, you, with this motion and with the interpellation, again cast suspicion on the Civil Guard, on the police forces, but we have defeated ETA, ladies and gentlemen, it is above all for the work and sacrifice of many human lives of the police forces. [[Applauds]] Where are your initiatives, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, in tribute to all the police forces, to all their sacrificed lives? Ladies and gentlemen, respect for the courage, honour and sacrifice of all our police forces, of all of them, of all those who have sacrificed their lives in the fight against ETA. Do you know how many civilian guards have been killed by ETA? 230. How many national cops? 183, in addition to 86 military personnel, 30 municipal police officers, 13 ertzainas and one mosso d'Esquadra. The problem, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, of the parties of the extreme left of this House and of other nationalist parties, is that we have defeated ETA, but we have not defeated the legitimation of ETA because you maintain it; you maintain the fallacy, the story that there was no persecution against hundreds of thousands and millions of Spaniards but a conflict between two sides. It is the negationism of ETA, ladies and gentlemen, which resembles the communist negationism of which some of you here made a great boast; one hundred million victims of communism and you giving life to communism here yesterday. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the People's Party will continue to fight against all negationism, against ETA negationism and against communist negationism. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no rule of law without justice for all the victims of ETA, and there is no full democracy as long as denialism and the communist continue to camp for their wide...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u206	Mrs. Uriarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u207	... in this House and in Euskadi. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Esteban Bravo asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u209	Yes, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u210	Very briefly, Madam President. I am still surprised once again that Article 152 never applies in this House, which is to call the question. [[Rumors]] In any case, what I have to say is that a salad of lies, falsehoods and improvisations has been launched against my party, which I have to reject on a plan, because saying that ETA would be nothing without the complicity of the PNV or that we have disentangled ourselves from the victims is plain and plainly a lie. They have been a series of grievances, but if this is the way some political parties have to not face reality, to not want to give satisfaction to a victim's family and not to face the truth, they themselves portray themselves. That's why they have the success they have in Euskadi. [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u211	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea asks for the floor for allusions]] Mrs Uriarte, there has been no mention either of your parliamentary group or of you as a spokesman. [[Protests by Mrs. Uriarte Bengoechea]] Mrs. Uriarte, please. [[Mrs. Uriarte Bengoechea continues to speak from her seat]] Mrs. Uriarte, please call her to order for the first time. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, in order for the Government to clarify its position with regard to the absence of a presidency of the State-owned industrial partnership for 17 months, the excessive adjudication, after 9 months of the support fund for the solvency of strategic enterprises, and the lack of information on the only operation approved in which the legal period has passed. [[SEPI]] [[File number 173/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u212	We continue with the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government will clarify its position regarding the absence of the Presidency of the State Industrial Participations Society, SEPI, for seventeen months, the scarce allocation after nine months of the Fund in support of the solvency of strategic companies and the non-compliance of information of the only approved operation in which the legal deadline has elapsed. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u213	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion portrays an indecent government; it portrays a government that uses funds to save companies with serious pandemic problems for their chanchulls and weaving. This is what this motion is about, from a scandal; I repeat, from a scandal. It is due to a lack of transparency and how hundreds of millions of euros are being granted discretionaryly, without the least modestness, by skipping the rules previously set and without the slightest accountability no longer only to this House but to the citizens. We are talking about three fundamental concepts when it comes to granting SEPI aid: that companies are Spanish, that they are strategic and that they are relevant; three concepts that you approved in the decree regulating these funds, that is not being fulfilled and that the minister herself, last week, tried to justify with false or make-up data. It can be seen that Isofoton did not serve as an experience and repeated errors. Gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, if we talk about the example of the Plus Ultra airline we can see how the minister lied, and has done it again today; how the aid granted does not meet any of the criteria. What are you playing at? Who are you laughing at? To a company that is not Spanish, that has a large part of the Venezuelan capital and friends of the Maduro regime, that they know well, and with which they have innumerable connections; they have given 53 million euros while preventing more than 200,000 autonomous Spaniards from accessing the 7 billion aid and leaving them out; while more than 100,000 companies have already disappeared during the crisis; or while yesterday they voted not to lower VAT for hairdressers. Does this seem normal to you? The minister here justified the strategic nature of this company. It is necessary to be very trilerous, but very much so, to understand that a company that occupies the 166th position in the number of operations in Spain - 166-, which barely performs 0.03% of the operations that are carried out in Spain, which does not operate on exclusive routes, can be considered strategic; 166! Who do you want to laugh at, ladies and gentlemen? Do you think that companies in this country, which do not have access to aid and are suffering from the harshness of the crisis, are grateful to them? This is a form of corruption. They're taking the money that should end up in the companies that need it to give it to their friends, to Ábalos' friends, who's gone from 'Passing Miss Delcy' to Landing as you can. I am convinced that, on this occasion, the 40 suitcases will no longer have problems carrying them. Does this company really seem relevant to you? Is it relevant with a plane, with one?, does 350 employees make it relevant in Spain? Do you know that there are 1970 companies with more employees in Spain? Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the rescue fund for strategic enterprises also speaks of the fact that companies have to be viable, and in this case it is a company that has always lost, whose bad situation has not been caused by COVID; it invoiced 100 million euros last year and is given 53 million in aid. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not meet any of the criteria - none - and will end up in the General Court of the European Union. What were you waiting for? That is why three of the four ministries represented on the board that approves the aid now refuse and throw balloons out. By the way, Ábalos first said he had nothing to do with it, and now we know he did. How many versions of you will we hear this time? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this is an insult to the intelligence of this House. They make the lack of transparency their way of doing politics and the chanchullos with their friends and with their friendly regimes a way to govern. Do you think it is normal that the aid to this airline is twice as much as that of France to Air France or triple as that of Germany to Lufthansa? What are we talking about, gentlemen? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? There are more cases of ransoms from the fund but not as bloody as this, at least some meet criteria of relevance or importance, but this House cannot afford this none on the part of the Government and the Spanish cannot allow their money to be delivered arbitrarily, without informing their representatives thoroughly of the operations. That is why we want to focus on transparency, which informs this House of the operations that SEPI is adopting from this fund, and that we in the Finance Committee can exercise our control work, even if there is a disparity of criteria, whether a third party can assess the relevance of the aid or not. It is called transparency, and even if this Government is allergic to it, it is urgent to apply it. The best antidote against corruption is transparency. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, how can you look at our entrepreneurs, our self-employed, those who are unable to reach the end of the month? How can you explain this to our tourism sector, which will take months to collect aid after burying it in paperwork and horrible conditions, while real millions are given to an irrelevant company without any objective criteria? Can they just leave them behind? Last night his Andalusian spokesman said that socialists when they see companies, they see employees. Do you also see fraudulent EREs? What we don't see the rest of the Spaniards are the 680 million euros they took from the money of the unemployed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the groups that support the Government, now appoint the president of SEPI. There are no more excuses and no more lies. Seventeen months of SEPI without a president, not nine. Perhaps with a named president who has to take responsibility, this type of discretionary behaviour would not be accepted, aid that does not meet fixed criteria, what more aid is a gift and which is a major scandal that needs to be clarified. We demand clarification and that they submit the aid to the necessary parliamentary control, and we demand that they accept the Committee of Inquiry, whose request our group has registered in this House. Back off, all of you, ladies and gentlemen. With more than a hundred companies closing every day in this country, with more than six million Spaniards who want to work and can't, this is not the time for gifts. If you do this with 10 billion from the SEPI fund, what awaits us with the 140,000 from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. It is good enough of opacity, it is good enough of arbitrary decisions, it is good enough of gifts because, as they say in my land: 'Whoever gives good sells, if he who receives understand'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u214	Thank you, Mr. Píriz. In defence of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u215	Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today with a motion resulting from urgent questioning and so that those who listen to us from home understand these names so overwhelming that here in Congress they are put to the initiatives, this motion responds to an urgent inquiry that was made to the Minister of Finance last week in which he basically did not answer anything to all the questions on which he was asked and, as a result of his answers, the motion that we are now debating and which must be voted on is presented. Well, the question asked to the Minister of Finance revolved around the rescues that SEPI is carrying out for certain companies, supposedly strategic, affected by the government's harmful measures to tackle the consequences of COVID. And I say the measures of the government because yes, gentlemen, the negative impact on businesses is not of the disease itself but of the measures of your Socialist Party government. The minister didn't answer anything. A series of doubts were raised, the rescues in particular to the Plus Ultra airline, a strongly connected airline - basically its main shareholder is a Venezuelan company- with the Chavista regime. In addition, Plus Ultra airline has loans granted by a Panamanian financier at a very strong interest rate that basically assumes that the money entering this airline is going to go directly to Panama, to an opaque company whose ultimate recipient is absolutely unknown. The doubts raised by the minister were very legitimate; let's see a narrative that makes a great deal of sense. In Spain, money stolen from Venezuelans, money stolen by the Venezuelan regime, money in the form of gold enters into a suitcase through Barajas airport, managed by Minister Ábalos, and returns to these Venezuelan authorities in the form of a subsidy as perfectly clean money, in an impeccable operation of money laundering in order to be used directly by the last beneficiaries of this airline. It could be that way. The Minister of Finance was asked; she was able to answer, she was able to deny it, she was able to fight back, but she preferred not to. And that makes us very much doubt. It also makes us doubt because the minister has already suffered massive thefts, capital thefts in her noses. Let us remember that the Minister of Finance was a tax advisor at that Junta de Andalucia that stole 800 million euros. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party fled with 800 million euros. Don't gesture, don't gesture. Because they stole 800 million euros in the face of a finance advisor who either didn't find out, in which case he would show a capital negligence too, or if he found out he preferred not to do anything, in which case he would be involved in some kind of crime for all these corruptions and robberies. Well, again, the minister could have said something, she could have claimed, she could have protested, she could have nuanced; she didn't. We continue, as this minister makes us wake up even more suspicions because she is very untrue. When he gives his answers, he tries to deceive all Spaniards, especially those affected by the questions asked. In particular, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros asked the minister at the time if she was going to raise taxes and she, fresh and lozana, responded with a rotundo no. No, no, But of course, we had not read the small letter and as, in fact, social contributions are not imposed by the General Tax Law - that law which she has studied but the Spanish autonomous ones have not -, through this small collade, of this small letter, deceived the 3 million autonomous ones that there are in Spain. They all went home quiet when the minister said four times: we will not raise taxes. That they met later? Social contributions go up. And finally, it's important because the finance minister was asked why they were rescuing Plus Ultra and she decided to respond with evasive. He said it was strategic, that it wasn't, that it was, but half. For her she is strategic Plus Ultra, an airline controlled by Venezuelans, but the 12 500 travel agencies in Spain are not strategic; the 68,000 families living in travel agencies in Spain are not strategic. Because to rescue airlines controlled by the Chavista dictatorship there is money, but it can be seen that to rescue the autonomous and the sector of the Spanish travel agencies there is not so much money. In the end the minister, as you always do in the Socialist Party, pays more for the party of politicians than really to the Spaniards, who are...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u216	Mr. Figaredo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u217	...who are suffering this crisis. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u218	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion seeks to avoid the misadjustments of a Government which, in the field of industry, has only reaped disasters and, in the field of finance, suspicions. On the thread of SEPI, how is it not going to be doubtful that the revolving doors persist when talking about the bailouts of bankrupt companies? How can we not be suspicious of the stellar appearances of distinguished socialists who in the Zapatero government dragged the Spanish economy into one of its deepest economic, social and political crises? Aid to Duro Felguera, for the time being only in an attempt, should have arrived by 2018, following his request to access lines of credit that would give continuity to the national and international activity of a lady company and that were truncated after the motion of censure and the arrival of a new minister of Finance who stopped the file with impunity. For Asturians, the alarming thing is that industry is being penalized for flagrant non-compliance with measures to ensure their competitiveness and employment. Although the President of the Principality has made us all the best, Mr Píriz Maya did very well in putting forward this initiative because it is his duty - and that of everyone in this House - to control and try to avoid abuses of the law. How can we not denounce the revolving doors to the thread of the Fund in support of the solvency of strategic companies? How can we not be suspicious of the appearances of distinguished socialists, who in their experience of government dragged to the express reform of 135 of the Constitution, with Spain on the verge of a rescue? As to rely on the artistic cast of Rodríguez Zapatero, who is now infiltrated by boards of directors in which public participation irrigated with SEPI money, converted into assault ship! I will vote in favour of this motion which reveals the impunity with which the Government is being handled. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u220	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u221	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Plus Ultra case is a top-level political scandal, which smells so rotten that it requires a strong, urgent and transparent explanation from the Spanish government, but it is also that it requires the immediate resignation of any minister who has given 53 million euros of the money of all Spaniards in a client-friendly way, only because on the advice of Plus Ultra someone feels like a friend of the Venezuelan dictatorship. Because there is no other possible reason to justify an injection of 53 million euros to a company that has zero strategic character for our country. The 53 million euros, which come out of the pocket of all the Spaniards, have to be used to replenish strategic companies for Spain asphyxiated by some arbitrary measures of the Government of our country; but, of course, for what they cannot be, it is for customer policies and with a smell to rot, as is the case that we have on the table. And, besides, it has not only been 53 million given absolutely in a customer-like way, which require an explanation, is that on top of it they have mocked all the Spaniards once again with intolerable lies. First of all, Mr Ábalos, who told us that not only did his ministry have nothing to do with this matter when we knew that the only report that has been crucial to awarding the 53 million comes from Mr Ábalos' ministry. Secondly, because it is not the first time that Mr Ábalos has lied to us precisely; it is that he has already lied to us repeatedly and shamefully in the Delcy Rodríguez case, which is absolutely unjustifiable, and should be intolerable in this Parliament. Occasionally, Mrs. Delcy Rodríguez also appears in the connection with this possible company. But it is also that Mrs Montero has also mocked all the Spaniards not only telling us that it was strategic a company that had less than 0.03% of the flights that took place in our country in the year 2019 but then it was attacking Mr Guaidó, instead of defending the democratic project of the country that lives in a dictatorship like Venezuela. Many Spaniards feel ashamed of a government that gives these subsidies to customers and of ministers who give these arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u222	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u223	Thank you, President. I left it on. Efficiency and efficiency: two key concepts in the economic sphere that relate to the way in which a company or organization uses the resources it has to carry out its activity and that, however, in politics, they seem to be two concepts that are always in question. And it is a shame, because the truth is that a country, a region that is not able to take out all the potential that public management entails, of course, we understand that it loses opportunities. I thought that your motion, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, was about the efficient use of public resources and that it was therefore somewhat different from that presented yesterday by VOX, but listening to yesterday's speech by Mr Eloy I realized that this was not so because it continued in the same line of VOX: Venezuela and corruption. The bottom for you is simply Plus Ultra, there is nothing else. It is a motion along the lines of that tabled yesterday by VOX and that, if I may say with some irony, they could have unified it, presented it together and saved us all a debate. That would also have been effective and efficient. A motion calling into question the granting of public aid which has been articulated through SEPI, of all aid. All the operations of the fund are being questioned with all the companies on the basis of the doubts about one simply because of its ownership and that you link to the Venezuelan regime and its financial situation, and extend, as I said, doubts about the granting of the rest of the aid to all the companies because of the doubts about one, and I wonder: what reliable and truthful data do you have to make these statements regarding all the operations that some companies have requested? Because they only have data to hit the headline. The actual data of all the companies, of all the operations, has them SEPI; data that we understand that, of course, cannot be made public as long as we consider that they are sensitive data that must be assessed by SEPI in a discreet and confidential way as long as a decision is made on whether or not to grant public aid, and this does not mean that there is opacity, as they seem to imply. We, as I said yesterday, are not going to question the work done by people working at SEPI, who are ultimately responsible for assessing the operations of companies and meeting the requirements for access to the fund and on whose report the management board is based to grant or deny the aid. We can question the criteria, the deadlines, but not the professionalism of these people or insinuate the prevarication of others. We agree that there is no doubt whatsoever about the granting of aid, especially at a time of uncertainty and crisis in the granting and limited use of public economic resources, which we believe must be impeccable. We can only share with the motion the need to cover the vacancy of the body's presidency in order to strengthen its architecture. We do not question the capacity or the work of its Vice-President, but it is also true that we cannot ask him for explanations for functions which do not correspond to him. It is the responsibility of the Government, of course, to cover this square if it deems it appropriate and within such time limits as it also considers appropriate. It will not be us who say how they have to manage their human resources policy. Finally, Mr Píriz, we have not just understood points 3 and 4 because we do not know their purpose, to make it easier for us to make the files of the operations available to the Committee on Finance, so that, if we disagree, we raise these data externally? At what external valuation? Every one we want? Wouldn't it be better to have a final report on the management and implementation of the fund? And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I also told you yesterday, you have the duty of due diligence and not to accommodate this kind of speculation. They should respond very clearly, very concisely and very concretely in their obligation to inform as a result of the role of control exercised by the opposition in order to dispel, as I have said, any hint of doubt. The decree regulating the fund, like virtually all, has not been negotiated prior to its adoption. Maybe if it had been done, now we wouldn't be discussing these kinds of motions. And, on the other hand, also, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this decree should have been processed as a bill, although at this point, and with the decree of course displaying effects, how do we change or modify those criteria? Because, if some of them are modified, it might perhaps mean that some company would not be entitled to such aid, which would mean that once the aid was granted. Have they stopped to think about it? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u225	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As we said yesterday, this motion continues with the debate on the 53 million euros to the Plus Ultra airline, which, according to its government, is a strategic company, but which they themselves omit in their ranking of the thirty largest airlines operating in our country and consider strategic a company whose market share in Spanish air transport is below 0.03% and which has only 345 employees. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as I told you yesterday too, let us at least say that this situation smells bad and smells bad because, moreover, the official information about these rescues shines through your absence, except what you filter into your related media and, as I told you yesterday, this is intolerable. Where's the transparency? I'll tell you what. She's not even expecting it. We saw it, as it also said yesterday, in this Royal Decree 25/2020, of July, and as we saw in Royal Decree 36/2020, of European funds. All the Spaniards have seen it, we have seen how the government has moved Olympicly from the Council of State's point of view, and they have also seen how their government ladies and gentlemen refuse an independent agency, as we proposed in my parliamentary group in our amendment to the whole with an alternative text for the management and distribution of European funds. I want to point out that the three rescues made so far by SEPI with that fund of strategic companies smell just as bad to us, not just that of Plus Ultra. The first of them, Air Europe, for an amount of EUR 475 million, which I do not know how your government ladies and gentlemen expect this airline, seeing its numbers, to return those almost EUR 500 million. Furthermore, I also don't know why a delegate advisor, Mr Vicente Lago, was put through a finger that has a clause that prevents him from working on the airline until 2022. The press says he's close to Minister Ábalos. Explanations so far this House has none. The second rescue, that of the company Duro Felguera, for an amount of 120 million euros, a company that drags economic problems from before the pandemic and that maintains a tax debt with Hacienda of 120 million euros. Both circumstances make this company not to have access to the fund. Explanations so far of the rescue of Duro Felguera, none. And finally, the 53 million Plus Ultra we have already commented on - we commented on yesterday - which all members of the government disagree with: Economy, Finance, Ábalos. But what kind of a joke is this? I told you yesterday that we are talking about public money and, although there are members in your government who believe that public money is nobody's, it owns it. The owner of that money is the Spaniards. It is not my intention nor that of my parliamentary group to go up to this rostrum to make a trial - that will be decided by the judges - but these are the facts and we ask for explanations. If you cannot explain, correct and if you cannot correct and justify the unjustifiable, then back off because the country's future depends on how we now, during these months, manage public resources to re-activate the business sector and our labour market. It's our responsibility as public servants who pay us for that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said so from the beginning. Count on my parliamentary group, count on us if you want to start on the path of accountability, transparency and management. However, do not wait for our support if you intend to continue with opacity, with your fingers and in irresponsibility. Correct, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, because the future of our generations is at stake. We shall vote in favour of the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u227	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG understands that it is necessary to fill a key position such as the presidency of SEPI and more in the midst of the economic crisis resulting from COVID-19, but gives us the impression that this is not what worries the People's Group and what motivates this motion. Obviously, we criticize the use of support for companies or strategic sectors for the state economy, but also for reasons radically different from those expressed by the People's Group. [[The lady]] We believe that specific companies and industries should be involved or protected precisely because of their strategic nature and the serious social and economic consequences that their disappearance would have on jobs and economic activity. The right is only concerned about Plus Ultra, but we are more concerned about the industrial future of our country, in Galicia, and we understand that if Air Europe is rescued, Alcoa and Alu Iberica must also be rescued. These companies should be nationalised under this fund to ensure their future and the maintenance of jobs in the auxiliary industry if there is no other solution and, unfortunately, is waiting. The management of the companies that are part of the group is of great concern. This is the case of Navantia Ferrol, which still lacks the necessary means to enable it to develop its full potential. It must remove restrictions on civil shipbuilding and promote diversification, by betting on the floating sea wind or by providing more resources to the turbine factory. And on the same line we could talk about the management that is being done of Post Offices, a public company in charge of the Universal Postal Service, which is leaving much to be desired. Anyway, I think there are many performances that SEPI needs to improve, but of course this right-wing obsession with Plus Ultra is not the way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u229	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for 30 seconds of attention in your parliamentary life. While we are currently debating motions resulting from very interesting appeals, there is a colleague of ours, Joan Josep Nuet, who is being tried a few meters from here in the Supreme Court. [[Applauds]] Do you know why he's being tried? Simply by allowing parliamentary groups in the Catalonian Parliament to debate a legislative proposal. That is precisely the same week that the Bureau of this House has vetoed a legislative initiative for parliamentary groups. Do you know on what legal basis? Implementation of article 62 (i) of the Constitution. I know you all know the Constitution of Memory, but I would like to remind you what Article 62 regulates. Article 62 regulates the functions of the king. Under the guise of...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u230	Mr Bel Accensi, I would ask you to stick to the matter in your speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that with other Members who have been talking about things that were not the case, you will have the same flexibility as you have had with this Member. I'll stick to the question. A hug... [[continues his speech in Catalan]] Having said that, in the motion following an inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group the justification and the argument is Plus Ultra Airlines, S.A. My opinion on this has already been given yesterday, but, of course, when you vote you have to know what you are voting for and the solution of what you are proposing. The solution proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group will still make the situation worse. You are proposing that all award files go to the Finance Committee. In the Committee on Finance, with the publicity that is common in parliamentary committees, we will discuss with each other whether the requirements are met or not. All the documentation that has been provided on these companies is going to be public and, moreover, if the Commission decides that no award has already been made, it will be given to an independent third party - which we do not know who it is and what its independence is - so that it can then revoke it. The solution is even worse. So, we're going to vote no. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u233	The story comes from afar. Among other measures approved to alleviate the effects of the crisis caused by COVID, last July the Government created, through Royal Decree 25/2020, the Strategic Business Solvency Support Fund, with EUR 10 billion. These are loans for companies considered strategic that as a result of the pandemic suffer from solvency problems. Those are the three criteria, so far correct, although in the Republican Parliamentary Group at that time already put on the table the need to create a similar mechanism for SMEs, which - oh, surprise! - had stayed out. And no wonder, since SMEs and self-employed workers have been and are the great forgotten and damaged in this crisis. Never forgotten in speeches; very often, too often when it comes to supporting them from the provisions published in the BOE. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is a matter that we could have dealt with; we could have tabled amendments to that effect if eight months later we did not follow this royal decree and its processing as a bill in the limbo of the Bureau, perpetuating the period of amendments, between the fraud of the law, parliamentary filibusterism and the mockery of the separation of powers. Today the PP brings us a motion precisely on this solvency support fund, on how it has been managed, on which companies are benefiting from this aid. We resist entering the issue and this new cross-kicking between the right, the extreme right and the government, because I believe that we all have assumed that we are in an electoral campaign, and - I will be forgiven - this is not ours, although I am surprised that they have not yet found an argument to blame the Catalans for the jail they have in Madrid. [[Applauds]] Occasion I suppose they will. I must say to the proponents that I do not understand how, if they are so clear about irregularities, they are not providing evidence to the judiciary, with the hobby you have of doing so. However, we would like to point out that we also do not like the opacity with which the Government is managing some issues of this crisis. That the Government facilitates the control and information required by the Courts seems to us to be a basic principle of any democracy, although the mechanism that Mr Píriz proposes is quite... I don't know how to translate mud, but I'll look for it. It is a basic principle in what is called parliamentary democracy and, in practice - I refer to the facts - it remains a mere declaration of intent. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not talk to us, - you! - about the management of SEPI, a real black hole managed by politicians, high officials - I refer to the accounts, and about them it would be interesting for the public interest to set up a motion, to be able to speak long and stretched out - because that has kept it all, blue and red. Therefore, I do not think they are the right ones to give lessons in management or transparency. Transparency, Mr. Píriz, the PP? Man! For years and years in your government, it has shined through your absence. And the Socialist Party, little more of the same. You can do it infinitely woman. How about starting by naming a team with industrial experience if it's precisely about managing public money holdings in industries? It's been two years. Today we are once again witnessing a debate with exchangeable speeches, depending on whether they are in the government, from the back to the real economy and the pressing problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u235	Thank you very much. The People's Party is bringing to the debate today the obligations and control mechanisms that we have on the little public industrial fabric that we have left. At least that puts it in the text of the motion we are working on. If we had no idea about the country's recent history, it might sound even sensible, but coming from one of the parties with the most privatizations behind their backs, we believe it is fair to say that it is profoundly cynical and hypocritical. Let's go to the root of the matter, to the bottom, and not to the propaganda we've been listening to for a long time; let's talk about public money. In 1985 we had one hundred and thirty public enterprises, which were mainly and directly involved by the State. Today there are only sixteen left. Before they were of all and of all, and now they are in the hands of a few. Then, of course, we are amazed that a crisis is coming and that, as we are one of the world's leading economic powers, we do not even have the industrial capacity to make masks. That's a big surprise! I repeat, we had one hundred and thirty public enterprises, which we are supposed to be talking about in today's debate, and we currently only have sixteen. If we put names on this list of very profitable companies, it is even more outrageous: Endesa, Repsol, Argentaria, the current BBVA, Telefónica - today Movistar -, Tabacalera, Indra, Aceralia, Red Eléctrica, Inespal - which was bought by Alcoa and is now abandoned to its fate, along with the staff -, Iberia, AENA and a long et cetera. Light, oil, aluminum, communications, transportation and even the company that counts the votes of the elections are in the hands of a few people with a lot of money. This is less democratic control, because really privatizing is a euphemism, not to say stealing. We were robbed of the democratic control that we are supposed to be debating today, we were robbed of all the capacity to generate thousands of jobs, to be able to implement, without permission, the ecological transition, which is so much needed, and we were also robbed of money, a lot of public money, which we are also talking about here today. Let us give an example, even though the ears of indignation are bleeding: Endesa, the largest electric in the country, which - we suppose - to the proud cry of Viva España! and, on the way, giving a kiss to the bracelet they have with the flag on the wrist, they sold to Italian capital, without putting on any color. Long live Spain! Yes, sir, but let him live far away; in Rome, to be exact. Let's see the concrete benefits of this company so powerful for our productive fabric, which, as I say, was badly sold to foreign capital. Endesa benefits after taxes: in 2020, almost €1400 million; in 2019, 1500; in 2018, 1400; in 2017, 1460; in 2016, 1400; in 2015, 1000; in 2014, 950 million. We can read the list of twenty years since privatization. In 2010, for example, they won €4 billion; in 2008 they won €7 billion - it looks like they did well that year -; in 2005, €3 billion. In total, the sum is €43 billion, which were ours, of all and of all, and are now in the hands of a few. This amount corresponds to almost 2000 euros that belonged - unfortunately, do not belong - to every person of working age in this country, who robbed us in our face. But, of course, the blame will be on the blacks and Moors who are in hotels and who come here to take away our work and our health. And, look, this data is just Endesa's. Imagine if we add to this amount of money the billion-dollar profits of Movistar, BBVA, Repsol, Iberia. Imagine, millions and millions of euros donated to four rich in exchange for a couple of plugs. But, of course, the blame lies with those who come in pateras. Anyway, adapting the famous so-called Galician, they piss us and pretend to say it rains. For these millions of reasons - never better said - we will vote against the initiative of the People's Party. It does not come out with cynicism and hypocrisy, privatizing; we go out with industry, with ecological transition, with more public sector and with more decent jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u236	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We already have three clear conclusions, following the debate on the question to the minister last week and the debate on this motion this morning. The first conclusion is that the People's Party is disoriented, concerned about its organizational, judicial, leadership, even real estate situation. This leads Mr. Casado to have no more time than to devote himself to maintaining the government of Murcia, albeit with escapes from other parties, rather than talking to the territorial leaders of his party. If he had done so, if he had spoken to the Secretary-General of the People's Party of Asturias, this gentleman would have told him that they were in agreement with the aid to Duro Felguera, who were in agreement with the aid of 120 million euros to this company, like all the parties and business and trade union organizations in Asturias, because it is a strategic company for the region. But a week ago, and today it has been reflected again in the motion we are debating, Mr Casado's People's Party is opposed to that company being able to access that fund and the EUR 120 million. When Mr. Married to Asturias, let him tell the Asturians that he is against the aid of 120 million for Duro Felguera. Second conclusion. During this year of global pandemic, the People's Party has sought to put an end to the Government's political positions, rather than to put an end to the virus, and today we realize that it also wants to put an end to the Solvency Fund of strategic companies, discrediting the fund and the companies that use it to maintain activity and employment. They demand aid and, if the Government grants it, the People's Party is against it. They demand direct aid for businesses and, when the Government puts the funds in direct aid, the People's Party opposes the funds and the companies applying for such funds. The People's Party has moved this year in the circle of contradiction, because in essence what bothers it is the Government, which it considers illegitimate, so that, as noted in paragraph 4 of its motion, what they intend to do is to co-rule from the Finance Committee, whether this is the one that decides to which companies we give the aid and to which companies it withdraws. Even their VOX partners have recriminated this proposal in the amendment they have advocated. Never before had companies in this country had the aid package implemented by the progressive government presided over by Pedro Sánchez. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, when ruling the People's Party, they forgot about the companies that were in a difficult situation. They had no access to credit and did nothing; well, yes, raise taxes. They forgot about the workers, whose employment situation was difficult; well, they approved the labor reform, with the consequences that we all know and that today has reviewed the Minister of Labour, whose words I make mine. Therefore, as I said to you, the People's Party remains installed in this circle of contradiction, and does not come out of it. And third conclusion. The People's Party does not like the Solvency Fund of strategic companies, with 10 billion. The People's Party does not like the 11 billion direct aid fund approved on 12 March. The People's Party does not like that the Government of Spain has managed to get the European Union to launch the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, from which Spain will receive 140 billion euros. The People's Party does not like that the government has invested EUR 93 billion in ICO endorsements and has mobilised loans for companies worth EUR 122 billion, from which more than 255 000 self-employed and more than 270 000 micro-enterprises have benefited. The People's Party does not like the fact that one million self-employed people have acceded to extraordinary aid worth more than 7 billion. The People's Party does not like that hundreds of thousands of workers and tens of thousands of businesses have accessed and benefited from the ERTE, in which the government will end up investing more than 45 billion euros. In short, the People's Party doesn't like what it has to do with weaving a network of solidarity to keep the productive sectors and sustain jobs, because the People's Party of now and before always militates at the worst, the better. That is the legacy of the past that Mr Casado makes his own, and, in the face of that, we bet on the solidarity exit from the crisis, so as not to leave anyone behind. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Píriz Maya, do you accept any of the amendments made?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u239	Yes, Your Honor, we accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-24-CD210324.u240	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was two and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
