ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the interpellations in the sense that the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which appears on the agenda as item 29, is debated before the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, which appears as item 28 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Parliament of Navarre on the partial amendment of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of Navarre, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Pablo Azcona Molinet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. I compare in this House, together with my colleague and my colleague from the Foral Parliament of Navarre, to defend a proposal for a law amending two laws: the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and the Organic Law of Party Financing. It's not the first time since Navarra we've tried this modification. In fact, in recent years we have already tried this amendment on a couple of occasions, by various means, but the last and successive dissolutions of the Courts have aborted those attempts. In our obstinacy, we are guided by the conviction of the importance, necessity and justice of the changes that we ask you to adopt, because all the two organic laws that we want to amend in their current drafting constitute an irrational obstacle to the democracy of small municipalities and, consequently, to the participation of our neighbours and our neighbours in public affairs; an obstacle that undermines the management of the interests of our local communities and therefore affects their future. In these times when we talk so much about depopulation and of Spain emptied the difficulties of forming local governments are, of course, bad news. As your lords know, the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime sets a limit of spending on election campaign for electoral groups and small political parties competing in a single municipality of only 0.11 euros per inhabitant. It is easy to count: in a municipality of 1000 inhabitants an electoral group will only be able to spend on campaign 110 euros, in one of 10,000 will only have 1100 euros. In short, and as the Court of Auditors pointed out in its day - and I quote literally - the applicable expenditure ceiling is clearly insufficient for the development of an electoral campaign. The court itself, as I said, highlights this contradiction, which also has the other law that we want to amend, because often the limit that these constituencies have on the way to attend is lower than the subsidy that they could receive based on their election results. This is not the case with the broad-based general political parties, as the Electoral Act does allow them to spend more in the form of a provincial complement. In addition, the latest amendment to the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties established that the excess of 10% would entail a minimum penalty of EUR 50,000. I would like to recall that in my country, in Navarre, 57 electoral groups incurred an excessive expenditure of 52000 euros among all of them; however, this law promotes that each one be sanctioned with 50,000 euros. They will understand that the above rules constitute an obstacle to the holding of a certain municipal election campaign and discrimination between political parties and constituencies; and, of course, the sanctioning regime is totally disproportionate. As I said, in this situation 57 groups were in the last legislature in Navarre. The fact is not residual in Navarra, but it is widespread: 217 of the 272 municipalities in Navarra have constituencies - in fact, in half all corporates are constituencies - and 65% of the villages of Navarra are governed by constituencies. As I said, this is a formula of participation in which many of the neighbours and neighbours of our peoples are being organized politically, but it is also a formula applied in much of the State, hence those more than 500 constituencies that are in that situation. We have had years of efforts from the Navarra Federation of Municipalities and Councils, which I had the honour of chairing in the previous legislature. We help these groups to address the General Courts, the Court of Auditors and also the Parliament of Navarre. In that task of wanting to keep this work alive, we bring to this House today a proposal for a law that avoids problems. To this end, we propose to your ladies and gentlemen an amendment of the above-mentioned laws, basically in a two-way way: so that in the municipal elections the limit of election expenses is adjusted to the real needs and so that those unjust and disproportionate sanctions of 50,000 euros are eliminated for the excesses I have cited. In short, in the proposal for a law, we ask for democratic normality, which restores the full right to democratic participation of neighbours and promote citizen participation in the public affairs of our municipalities. We have a problem. From Navarre we bring you this solution. I ask you to conduct this initiative because it is necessary. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Azcona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also on behalf of the Parliament of Navarre and to present the initiative, Mr Mikel Build García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u5	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. As my colleague Pablo Azcona has reported, we are faced with two laws, that of financing and that of the electoral regime, which disproportionately limit and sanction the electoral groups that are presented in one municipality. These are laws that ultimately demobilize, demotivate and deny political participation often to citizens who are more willing to engage in the management of their territory and who do not feel identified - and this is important, ladies and gentlemen - with no majority political party. As we have been saying, this proposal to modify Navarre had to be, because Navarre is a land where precisely the organization of dispersed peoples has been vertebrated over the centuries, from north to south and from east to west, through different forms of community participation: batzarra, associations of neighbors, brotherhoods, Auzolans, guilds... All of them intend to defend a treasure, our communal and settled soil, which today has 41% of the surface of Navarre. That is, 41% of Navarra's surface is public land and that is thanks to a communal and neighborhood movement that has centuries and has defended its communal land and the way to manage it. Thus, we come to today asking them that the two laws that we have cited may be modified to facilitate precisely the participation of the neighbours in their own peoples and that they, feeling their own, do our own what is ours. Municipalism is a political option that the law does not treat well unless it comes from the hands of the big parties. That is what we have to recognize and diagnose - I hope in a shared way - among all of us. The legal change that we propose today is not to penalize this civic vocation that arises not only in Navarre, but in all the peoples of this country, apart from the major state parties. Deportivity in the electoral race. We all want to win, we all want to convince, but on an equal footing and not competing with opponents who have an arm tied to their backs. That is the mirror that we put before them today, making them see that they are judges and part of the electoral competition that takes place in each municipality. No one escapes that the electoral groupings that are presented in a single municipality are usually distinguished by close and sensitive management at the municipal level and, generally, they represent a good way to maintain the balance in favour of the people who live in the territory, as well as of the territory itself, when we talk, for example, about the environment. Today we are asking for their generosity. We are asking them to vote even against their interests as big parties and for the democratic participation of citizens, without abuse and without being judges and part of something as important as the management of the common, promoting the democratic development of our country from below. We propose to double the spending capacity of these groups in the electoral race and to modify the sanctions, as described by the previous colleague, making them proportional to the overexpenditure that has been carried out in the electoral campaign; that is, to put into value the neighbouring involvement in political management. In our formation we work tirelessly to improve the social and political participation closest, from the local to the local, and therefore we ask you to vote generously in favour of this initiative; and, if you do not vote in favour of this initiative, that it can be incorporated into the work that you are developing of reform of the electoral law itself to take a step forward and, as we say, to make democracy and democratic participation come from below. It is a key thing for our formation at this time the urbanization of empty peoples that threatens to break the bonds of community and, thus, the vocation of public service of so many citizens in this country. Let us bet on the recognition of local political participation at the local level, on the recognition of the public vocation of so many neighbours, deepening democracy and promoting greater sports in the electoral career at the municipal level. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Buil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, to present the initiative, Mrs. María Luisa of Simon Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to speak before you today. As I said, this is not the first time this initiative has been adopted in the Parliament of Navarre. In the last legislature it fell due to the call for elections and this time we bring back a similar initiative. The fundamental objective, as has already been said, has to do with ensuring the financial capacity of the local groups participating in the elections, as well as of the political parties which are confined to a single municipality, and avoiding the excessive sanctions that often amount to a hundred times more than the money spent on the campaign. From our point of view, there is a democratic deficit which needs to be corrected and which has to do with the right to political participation of citizens. This has already been expressed by the Court of Auditors itself in 2015, when it opened 57 cases and proceedings in Navarre and 500 cases throughout the State. It is clear that there is a major dysfunction, as it should be noted that between 47 million Spaniards and Spanish people there were 500 cases and between 650,000 inhabitants in Navarre there were 57 cases. It is true that in Navarre there is a clear tradition of political participation with such formulas, but they remain formulas that are obviously not apolitical. They are formulas that have their political orientation and, in fact, many of our colleagues are part of such groupings. The Navarra Federation of Municipalities and Councils has also insisted on this issue and we are aware that there is a very particular circumstance in Navarra. There are 12 municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, 21 municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants, 251 municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, 147 municipalities with less than 1,000 inhabitants and 47 municipalities with less than 100 inhabitants. Therefore, imagine an application that only has 100 euros or 105 euros. This is impossible. We believe that both political parties and electoral coalitions have to have the same conditions when it comes to competing in the elections, and I therefore ask all of you to accept this proposal. By the way, in my case and that of other colleagues, it does not respond to our initial proposal, it does not respond to what we and we propose, because it totally distorts the meaning and purpose of it. However, we understand that it is the obligation - I will be able to say this - of this institution, of the Congress of Deputies and of the deputies, to address an issue that, as I said to them, seeks to defend a model of citizen participation that is based precisely on the participation of neighbours and neighbours in the development of their peoples, which implies a political commitment of these people, of these men and women, and also their responsibility in decision-making. I believe that there is also a debate - and I conclude with this - that is open on all these issues. Why? Because there are difficulties in certain localities, especially small ones, with regard to the political significance for the population. This is an issue that I believe requires reflection from all of us and from all of us, from representatives and political representatives, because we always have to repeat some electoral processes because there are no candidatures. I would like to remind you that electoral groupings are not apolitical. No one presents himself in politics or makes politics from an apolitical point of view. They all have a political project and an electoral project and, in fact, their components are obliged to carry them out. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that today is simply the consideration and it will be up to all of you and all of you - because I hope it will go ahead - to do justice to this situation, because it cannot be that an electoral group can only receive 100 euros, 120 is spent and a fine of 50,000 euros is imposed. Thank you so much for your attention. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Simon. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Robles López. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the group I have the honour to represent, we have always argued that political parties must, firstly, be financed with their own resources and, secondly, limit expenditure by adjusting to the reality of the economic crisis in which we are immersed. With this reform which the Navarro Parliament is presenting today, it is intended to legislate in favour of certain parties and against the citizens who finance them with their taxes. We have not found in the explanatory statement presented any weighty argument that would allow double in the election campaign to those who present themselves in a single constituency, because it lacks logic. If the parties running throughout the national territory are in line with those 11 cents, are they not competing equally with those campaigning in a constituency alone? Why is this amount considered insufficient for a single constituency? Why isn't there a single reason for this? Don't you gentlemen know what proportionality is? But, fundamentally, our opposition to this reform has a political character in the strict sense of this term, because politics is a concept that refers to the organization of a nation state and can only be regarded as a term that refers to the administration of an autonomous community, province or municipality. With this reform they seek to benefit those parties which lack a national dimension and which restrict their activity to a single constituency, either because of their short-sighted, regionalist or provincial character, or - which is much worse - because they actually have only one political ambition, although of a negative format, i.e. anti-political, since there are not a few secessionist groups that pursue the rupture of national unity and the constitution of a fractional State that could also be favored if this initiative succeeds. We are at least concerned that it is precisely the Navarro Parliament that brings this reform here, a Parliament complicit in the separatist interests and allied with those who want to destroy national unity, a Parliament which will allow separatist groups and florets to camp wide for the outside Community. The self-named abertzale left, supposedly dissident or radical, uses different organizations - very numerous - to collect in some case official aid and, in any case, consented and even encouraged by the Navarra authorities. I offer you a list of this museum of horrors: Gazte Koordinadora Sozialista, Movement for Amnesty and Against the Repression, Amnesty Ta Askatasuna, ETA, Jardun, Herritar Batasuna,Iraultzen Bilguneak, Jarki, Eusko Ekintza, Errepresioari Autodefentsa, Ikasle Abertzaleak, Liga Komunista Iraultzailea, Gazte Asanblada, Euskal Herriko Komunistak, Euskal Herria Sozialista, etc. As you can see, a few, all enemies of Spain, all defenders of political violence. [[Applauds]] Instead of bringing these reforms, would it not be more urgent for you to study the legal and administrative situation of each of them or to report on the record you have of these terrorist and separatist organizations and their actions? Could you explain whether there is control and monitoring of these youth associations associated with political violence and kale borroka? Do you have plans from the Navarro Parliament to eradicate these groups? These are rhetorical questions, because we know that these groups are working for the Navarro government's strategy of 'euskaldunizing' Navarra society. Instead of isolating these groups, what they do is to expel the Navarra Civil Guard on December 1st in conjunction with the unworthy Marlaska, capable of leaving more than one hundred and fifty families in limbo and systematically disheartening all the demands that this body, through the Unified Union of the Civil Guard, has raised to the ministry. This association prepares a demonstration for the 18th of this month for which we express our support. It is an infamy, a shame and an indignity that add to the affronts to these public servants and their families; in particular, to their children of school age, who suffer systematic harassment in Navarra schools without the least care being given to those who tear their clothes before school harassment on sexual grounds - unacceptable, of course - but they silence it as if school harassment were not as detestable when it is due to ideological causes. [[Applauds]] They are families who see their modus vivendi staggering, their future compromised and their vital plans crumbled, unprotected by the State to which they serve with honor and loyalty. All this infamy occurs for the sole purpose of pleasing the separatist partners of the Navarro Government and the Spanish Government and constitutes an unacceptable concession to the enemies of the Spanish nation. The expulsion of the Navarra Civil Guard is one more step in the breakup of Spain. Undoubtedly, the above-mentioned groups applaud this decision of the Navarro Government, handed over to the enemies of the nation and complicit in separatism, of the children of the racist orate Sabino Arana who, in their objective madness, claim the annexation of Navarra for the creation of that hallucination called Euskal Herria, a phantasmagory that has progressed by putting dead on the table and thanks to the inaction of the national parties. [[Applauds]] Few things are as absurd as that a state generously funds the groups that want to end it. There are few contradictions as scandalous as having here, in the seat of national sovereignty, those who want to energize that sovereignty and, for more shame and shame, even supporting the Government. They are groups that, sheltered in the corrupt bipartisanism that reigns for four decades, have given their support to each other in exchange for obtaining prebendas for their regions, dividing the Spaniards and progressively deepening in their constitutive end, which is nothing other than that of ending the Spanish nation and robbing the sovereignty of the people. And we say groups, not parties, because, strictly speaking, if a party is defined as being a part of the whole - as its name indicates -, to be considered as such it can only have the primary function of preservation from its own ideological coordinates - right, left or center - of that common whole, to meet the needs of the nation rather than to its own particular interest. This is reason enough to consider the concept of a separatist party incorrect, which should be suppressed or changed by that of a seditious group, just as a cancer that threatens the existence of the organic body is not called an organ, but a tumor, a tumor that must be removed to preserve the health of all threatened organs and the integrity of the body. [[Applauds]] With this reform it will in many cases be those enemy groups of national unity that benefit precisely the most. Our position at this point is sharp. They should not have any advantage - quite the opposite - those parties which do not have a natural and therefore national view - of politics; they should not be overrepresented or enjoy financial privileges. Nor do we find sufficient reason to explain the reduction in the amounts of the fines, except by thinking - perhaps wrong - in the interest of protecting the parties rather than the citizens, those citizens whom the Government has massacred with unjustified fines in a state of emergency disguised as a state of alarm, as has already been ratified by the Constitutional Court thanks to the appeal lodged by VOX. As the sole basis for this reform, the Regional Parliament refers to a 2015 report which states that the money invested in the electoral campaign is in some cases lower than that received as a subsidy after the elections. Curious reasoning, because from here it is not necessary to extract the scarce amount of electoral expenditure, but rather the quantitative amount of public subsidies. Make it clear to you that when VOX has the responsibility to govern these subsidies it will be over. Neither parties nor trade unions nor ideological groups financed through chiringuites will receive a single euro from taxpayers, because it is good enough to bleed to SMEs and self-sustaining. It is already good that a considerable part of the money generated by the increasingly thin Spanish productive fabric serves to finance politicians through this mechanism. [[Applauds]] In this, as in so many other things, only VOX remains saying loud and clear that each party or union will be financed by what it collects from its affiliates and by its own means, because when these parties and unions live from the money of the State, the fundamental work for which they are conceived is perverted, that of serving the nation and not its own interest. Subsidies are a mechanism for converting democracy into a party, serving the interests created. This means, for example, the complicit silence of the trade unions when we are paying for Europe's most expensive electricity receipt or its pasticism at the destruction of employment and the unemployment figures in which Spain beats records. [[Applauds]] A party that operates in two directions: on the one hand, it turns the governments into mere enforcers of the decisions concerned of a party and, on the other, it constitutes an oligarchy that assumes effective sovereignty, controlling the ascendant vectors of a political society - trade unions, neighboring organizations, etc. - through its economic support with these subsidies. Seeing this, it is no wonder that many Spaniards perceive the political class as part of the problem rather than as their solution, often by putting us all unjustly in the same sack, especially after having checked how some - and I mean the United We can - who came to politics supposedly with a speech of regeneration, promising not to charge more than three minimum wages, to reduce energy and fight for the people, once touched they have forgotten their proposals by becoming the caste they claim to fight, enriching themselves by earning with political activity money that they would never have gotten in the performance of their job, in case they had. [[Applauds]] A new caste that, by the way, freezes all forms of separatism, walks through the herriko taverns and has its former leader turned into a columnist of separatist pamphlets like the Gara, after having left his seat. From that rostrum he will spread his demagogic garbage aimed at advertising mantras and lies that will allow him to continue living as a Marquis while declaring himself an obresist and proletarian. Unfortunately, the Spanish do not exist in our nation, nor has there ever been a national left. The real Spanish left has always been and is, with honourable exceptions, an enemy of national unity and an ally of separatist groups. Undoubtedly, the hatred, the stones, the insults, the distortions, the lies and the sanitary cords that to the right and sinister cause my party to suffer have to do with our determined will to break this corruption of the Spanish party. Therefore, and in line with our programme to defend the unity and equality of the Spaniards and to reduce the welfare of politicians, we will vote against this reform, because they will neither frighten us nor will they ever get VOX to be part of that criminal and libertised consensus...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u10	Mr. Robles, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u11	...that puts in alcurrence nothing less than the existence of the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u12	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs De Simon Knight.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Robles López, you have not read or have not been able to interpret the initiative we bring here and, of course, you have not had to hear anything of our words at all. I do not think you know the Parliament in Navarre either, but the decisions are made democratically among the fifty parliamentarians, and they are legitimately democratic. I do not know what your problem will be, but we are not here to favour any political party; on the contrary, what we are trying to do is to debate about equity in the possibility of political participation by neighbours of certain municipalities. Nothing more and that's all. I am not going to go into the allusions he has made to the left and to me in particular, which I have been campaigning in the United Left for many years. I'm not going in because we don't come here to make you the protagonist of a chirigota. What we are proposing today is that we discuss the issue we bring, not other issues. [[Applauds]] I understand that you know the Rules of Procedure of this Congress, you know the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Navarre and you can bring the initiatives you consider to discuss the issues you have put on the table today. In the Parliament of Navarre we have what we call the fifty-one Member, then you have the opportunity to present these initiatives in relation to the speech you have had, and I assure you of course that it will come out well heated on this matter. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Simon. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Build García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u15	Good afternoon. What a surprise! The truth is that we have not heard much from the VOX spokesman about the proposal we have brought from Navarre. I understand you have a very concrete vision of our community. Of course, our community also has them; their representation is zero, they have no representation in our community. [[Applauds]] Obviously, thus understanding our diversity, thus understanding our way of exercising politics - I repeat - from the neighborhood, from the citizenry, not from criminal organizations hidden to destroy the state. But what kind of joke is this? That we come from the Parliament of Navarre, that we do not come from elsewhere! What we are saying is that we want neighbours to be able to compete with you in municipal elections in a more or less equal way. That's why we asked them for generosity and sports. If the insult of myopes, regionalists, provincials, tumors to remove... Seriously, is that what they do? We understand that, of course, they are very well where they are, but please don't come to Navarra. See you later. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Buil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Azcona Molinet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u17	Thank you very much, President. Mr Robles López, I have been mayor for fourteen years of a municipality of Navarre of 5000 inhabitants through an electoral grouping and, of course, you have not succeeded in one of what is an electoral grouping, what it represents and what it seeks; some claim some things, others claim others. Because in Navarra, as I have explained, a good number of neighbors and neighbors with different ideologies are presented that the only thing they intend to do is participate in the public life of their municipalities. I am going to tell you something that you have said and that I think you have not understood the same thing, and that there is a difference and there is discriminatory treatment towards these constituencies because the generalist political parties receive a supplement of EUR 156 000 for being present in each province and, moreover, the mailing does not compute them as election expenses, something that will compute them to the constituencies. I have to tell you, in case you don't know, that sending a letter, sending the mail to each neighbor, costs already 0.23 euros. However, the limit that voters groups have is 0.11, that is, less than half of what they need to send the ballot that you are sure to send to each home. I have come here to speak only of the Puentesina Group, of the Lodoso Organization of Independents United States, of independents by Lerín, of Cambiemos Buñuel, of Independent Group San Sebastián and of independents by Sangüesa. I've got a lot, over sixty to list. And I have also come to talk about democracy and participation. I've come to talk about municipalism and local autonomy. I've come to talk about the living rural world as well. I've come to talk about Navarra. I have also come to talk about the Court of Auditors, which you have forgotten. And I also come to talk about the Constitution, because article 9 says that public authorities must remove obstacles that prevent or hinder citizen participation in political life. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Azcona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to remind the three of you that this bill affects the whole nation, not just Navarre. Stop looking at your navel. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I want to tell you that you have a curious conception of democracy, which is that when someone disagrees with you, they forbid you to go to Navarre. We will go whenever we want, whenever we want, because we have our representation in Navarre, which has not reached the institutions, but will soon do so, do not worry. [[Applauds]] It also seems incredible that it does not seem to be possible to disagree with you. The arguments that I have given here have to do with what is the very fabric of Navarra society and what you are promoting are groups that are dedicated to street violence - I have read them a list - that many of them present themselves in independent candidatures, but as you do not know exactly what those independent candidatures consist of - and here you just say, that some are of one thing and others are of another - because we are aware of the risk that these kinds of individuals may reach power, even if it is municipal. I insist, you are focused on Navarre, but this law does not only affect Navarre, it affects the whole nation, it affects all those parties that are presented by a single constituency. They say again and again here - a fact that is completely fallacious - that in small villages there is little money to campaign. It is that in small villages these electoral campaigns in many cases serve no purpose, for the simple reason that everyone is known. So there's no need for massive spending either. We have to bear in mind that politics - I insist on this point - is the art of governing a state, and we cannot be aware of these electoral issues that affect municipalities or a single constituency. There are far more efficient mechanisms than the amendment of this law so that these parties, small local groupings, can have sufficient funding to conduct an electoral campaign and not motivate a law or the amendment of a law that affects the whole nation. He didn't take his threats as real. I simply take them as medals that we hang VOX's. With this example they again insist on the same thing: demonizing VOX as if we were some sort of demons who are out there against democracy. With this example of democracy you have given, you have been portrayed, but well portrayed. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u20	Thank you, Mr. Robles. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, logically, I would like to greet my former colleagues, Marisa, Mikel and Pablo, who come from the Parliament of Navarre because they passed a bill to be debated in this Parliament, in Congress the Deputies, because it transcends what is Navarra's own legislation. If it had only had an impact on Navarre, logically, they would not be here today defending that law which we support and approve in the Parliament of Navarre and which, of course, we are going to adopt here today, because we understand it necessary, and I will explain why. First of all, I have to say that I belong to one of those small parties, the Union of the Navarro People, which, since 1979 - I think with the Socialist Party itself, the PNV and I don't know if anyone else - we have always had a presence in the General Courts because the citizens of Navarra have wanted us to be present in these Courts, as we are also the majority party in the Foral Community of Navarra for many years. So you can be small, but people want to vote for you and vote for you. In this respect, we must consider the idiosyncrasy of the Foral Community of Navarre as to what has been said here about the groupings, and I endorse many of the approaches made by the three people accompanying us, because it is true that, historically, over the years - not only in politics, but in many other areas of life - there has been greater associationism than elsewhere. This has led to grouping together to govern municipal life over the years, with historical figures before there were democratic systems and, then, within the democratic system, these groupings have become constituencies that have received the applause of their neighbours. It is true that the Electoral Law is designed to benefit above all those major parties at the national level. Logically, when they did the law they did not worry about the small municipalities, but not only in Navarra, this exists in the whole of Spain. It is true that there are other places where the penetration of the majority parties - let's call them that - is in almost all municipalities, but there are many others in which it is not so and, therefore, we are doing no harm to anyone. What we are saying is that in those places where idiosyncrasy is what it is, as in the Foral Community of Navarre, these small groups are allowed to have the right to live and to present themselves. Also, he insists again, then the people vote for them. What democracy has is that you introduce yourself and sometimes they vote for you, and sometimes they don't. So let us let the people vote and, once we have voted, we will now form the majorities that are necessary to govern the different communities. Of course, I don't like many things people vote for, but, logically, he accepted the election results. Another thing - and that would be another discussion - is how some have or have not accepted them or cannot accept them. We, of course, accept those results and what we have done has been working from the first day of the birth of our party to, from a minority position such as we had when it was founded, reach the highest levels of citizen support. Obviously, that responds to the will of the people. In that regard, we believe that this is a good initiative. We believe that there is room for amendment, if it is deemed appropriate by someone in Congress, in the commissions established in this regard, with changes in the Electoral Law. I also want to say that we are a party that, quite contrary to what the spokesman for VOX said, we have always defended public funding. In fact, our party has never accepted donations, although they could be accepted, because we understand that public funding is much more transparent and because we believe that political parties or parliamentary groups, as you might say, have to be financed. In that sense, we believe that we must be transparent, that what is entered and what is spent is known. There are other systems that, although they are legal, legitimate and have been used, we, being able to use, have never wanted to receive donations. We understand that public funding is the established one. Another thing is that we have to say in what parameters, how good it is, how positive it is, and adapt it, of course, to every moment we are in, but we believe that, logically, democracy also has a cost, as does the whole of society as a whole. Democracy also has a cost. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the three former colleagues who have come from the Parliament of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal-Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u23	Mr Guztioi, Madam President. Marisa, Pablo and Mikel. Just as representatives of the Navarro Parliament have shared with all of us, in 2018 the Navarra Federation of Municipalities and Councils drafted a series of amendments to the Loreg and the Party Financing Act to solve the problem of financing the electoral campaigns of local groups and small parties. It was a long and rich process of political participation in search and consensus-building, a process that was subsequently distorted when it arrived at the Navarro Parliament. The action of Navarra Suma and the inaction of the PSN made it possible for an amendment of Navarra Suma to come forward, losing what had cost so much consensus and benefiting the political action of small local political groups and groups. They sought to ensure that applications could incur a minimum expenditure of EUR 2500 or the eligible amount, without including in those costs those resulting from the dispatch of envelopes and ballot papers. And in the same chapter of sanctions, in order to exceed the statutory expenditure limit, it was proposed that the minimum penalty, now set at EUR 50,000, should disappear, since, as has been said, it could entail a totally disproportionate fine. At the time our formation voted against in the Navarra Parliament because it considered that, as we have commented, the proposal of the Navarra Federation of Municipalities and Councils was distorted and a proposal was made that really favored UPN and the PSN. Today we will give a good deal of thought to the procedure, without fully agreeing with what has been brought to this House, for two reasons. Firstly, because we respect our Parliament, its decisions and its sovereignty. Mr Robles López, by the way, VOX does not have a representative, zero, zero, in the Parliament of Navarre. Secondly, because we will continue to maintain the initial position of the Federation, which we will defend through the process of amendments. Eta horregatik, eskerrik asko, éta jarraituko dugu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u25	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I also welcome the representation of the Parliament of Navarre, which has presented us with a proposal for a law amending the Loreg and the Organic Act on the financing of political parties, in view of the fact that the combination of these two laws creates unfair situations, and in particular, as has been pointed out, electoral candidatures which compete in a single electoral district. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group shares the view that the limit on electoral expenses set out in Article 193.2 of the Loreg for local elections prevents a minimum electoral campaign, which is aggravated by the candidatures that run in a single constituency by having no option to the provincial command or bonus, a circumstance which also occurs, albeit to a lesser extent, in those other political formations of limited territorial establishment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group also sees as disproportionate the sanctions that can be incurred by minimal quantitative excesses in the expenditure limits of election campaigns, particularly following the 2015 reform of the Party Financing Act. With an example, which has already been presented, concerning a municipality of a thousand inhabitants, the unjust situations that the combination of the two organic laws is creating are clearly seen. Thus, for each of these applications, with presence in a single constituency, the expenditure limit for a municipality of one thousand inhabitants would be EUR 110, obtained by multiplying 0.11 by the number of inhabitants, per thousand, but if they are exceeded by more than 10% of this ceiling, that is to say, by EUR 12 the minimum penalty corresponding to it is EUR 50,000. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view this is clearly unfair. Nor can a minimum electoral campaign be carried out with EUR 110, nor is it reasonable for an excess of EUR 12 to entail a penalty of EUR 50 000. This state of affairs, moreover, is producing that electoral groups and political parties of municipal nature do not re-present themselves in future electoral processes, which, apart from reiterating, as has already been said, the citizen participation in passive suffrage, is even more serious in those municipalities - there are not a few and, mainly, they are those that have less population - in which political parties of a higher level than in a particular municipality fail to form an electoral list. To a greater extent, ladies and gentlemen, the double problem highlighted in the initiative we are discussing has also been set out by the Court of Auditors in its reports on the control of the accounts of the local elections of 2015 and 2019, and by the Joint Commission of the Courts for Relations with the Court of Auditors in its resolutions of 28 March 2017 and 15 July 2021, in relation to those reports on the control of the Court of Auditors, pointing out by all of them that the applicable maximum expenditure limit is manifestly insufficient, particularly for the formations of reduced implementation, since it is defined exclusively - defined exclusively - by the number of inhabitants of the localities where they are presented and moreover is incongruent - it has also been pointed out - because it is lower than the subsidy that would be payable in the event of representation in the corresponding municipal body, apart from the serious penalizing effects that this can give rise to, to the extent that they easily exceed the maximum expenditure limit, with the consequent offence punishable in application of the Organic Law 8/2007, which will never constitute a major offence of the excess of the euro, and which will constitute a very serious amount of the excess of the excess of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the fine or of the amount of the fine. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I am finalizing. Electoral processes, in our view, need stable frameworks to play a key role in democratic societies by articulating political and ideological participation, the democratic principle, plurality itself, cohesion, including the territorial model and the very viability of future governance. However, when a situation is detected that is not based on any of these principles and is also unfair and is produced by the regulatory framework, with a repeated manifestation in time and with a projection of the future, the Basque Parliamentary Group, of the Basque Nationalist Party, understands that with its vote it must help to take into consideration those legislative initiatives that allow us to discuss in paper and Commission the changes to be made both in the limit of expenditure on local elections, in order to achieve a more balanced solution for the financing of the campaigns, as in the current sanctioning regime from a principle of proportionality and above all for political formations of limited territorial implementation, which can also be projected on the sanctioning procedures opened by the Court of Accounts against candidatures that attended in a single constituency in the past local elections and that affects many corporations of different municipalities of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u27	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today we are bringing here a reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. And I say well, I say we bring it, because not only do these three Members who I welcome to the House bring it, but Navarra Suma has also introduced important amendments to improve this surgical reform of two laws that are only trying to solve a problem, not all those things that Mr Robles has said, which seems to have not been read the law. No, we are only trying to enhance the political participation of citizens within political pluralism, which is a superior value of our Constitution, as stated in article 1. In other words, to ensure that there is a direct participation of people, of people, to involve people in the management of the public without having to be subjected to the structures of the political parties of all life - and now also of VOX, who does not seem to want people, freely, to participate politically in groups of voters in municipal life -. We did vote in favour, the amendments were accepted, the Bildu Group, which was the proponent of this initiative, was very angry, had a quarrel in the Parliament of Navarre and went from yes to no. Well, I thought I understood that they had changed their mind and that they were going to vote yes and that they had been scolded to admit us to the Navarra Group. Summarize the amendments to improve this law. Because the things we are going to do, look, what policies they are, how tremendous they are: we are going to double the ceiling on electoral spending in municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, we are going to facilitate access to the provincial complement that has been discussed here before to these electoral groupings and we are going to make the sanctions that have to be imposed proportional. Look at these things! Look at what we are going to do so tremendously against the unity of Spain and all these things that we have heard here: citizen participation, political pluralism. It has already been said before by one of the representatives of the Navarro Parliament that it is impossible with 11 cents of euro for every inhabitant of the population entitled to the constituency to simply send a mailing, to make posters, to make a minimum campaign worthy of it. It is impossible to reach the provincial supplement of EUR 156 000 because the requirement is that one is present in 50% of the districts of the province. The aim is to benefit small political formations, neighbouring associations. And of course, this the People's Party and the Socialist Party don't like. The surprise is they didn't like VOX either. This freedom thing seems like it's coming a little big for you. Here in Spain we repeat the elections every two by three, each party sends its envelope with its ballot and with its publicity and now we get great because four neighbors of a people - each, by the way, with their ideology, their father and mother - have decided to worry about the municipal management of their people. These are the dangerous ones, those four friends who at the bar say: hey look, the mayor is a disaster, let's see if we fix the streets in our village. It seems that the Socialist Party is going to vote against, we do not know what the People's Party and the gentlemen of VOX are going to do, of course, they are going to vote against. It has also been mentioned here: there have been 57 fines from the Court of Auditors in the 2015 elections; disproportionate fines that, as Mr Legarda has said, disincentive people who want to participate in the public thing to come forward for this management. We double the 11 cents to 22 cents. What things! Tremendo! We reduce the requirement to obtain the electoral supplement to 25% and make the sanctions proportional, because the sanctions are fixed fines of 5000, 25,000 and 50,000 euros to four friends who present themselves in an electoral group and who exceed - Mr Legarda has also explained - in a little the ceiling of spending, because they have taken a photo, they have made a poster, they have sent a few letters and a little more, which is how the electoral campaign is done in the peoples. Finally, this is what Mr Robles is going to talk about about the fines of the state of alarm, Sabino Arana, the separatists and the Civil Guard, but this is nothing more, don't worry, that these rules are not dangerous to the unity of Spain. The UPN representative told you; in short, I don't think Carlos García Adanero is a dangerous red or anything like that, nor do I on the other hand. In the end, what we find here is trying to repair an injustice. One of the representatives of the Navarro Parliament has also said this: independent, independent platforms that are presented in the peoples, nothing more, nothing more than that. You VOX people, what you want is for you to pay righteous for sinners. Of course, there will be a few evil ones, in his opinion, who come forward; then, let no one come forward. The best thing is that no one is introduced or that they are presented with many clippers and so, listen, the root evil is over. Look, political participation, article 23 of the Constitution; political pluralism, superior value of the legal order according to article 1.1 of the Constitution; direct participation of citizens, people who come from civil society, as happens in my party, who come from outside, from the street, to try to participate in the general interests, in the management of the things of everyone, in what the Romans called the res publica. That is why this is a reform that Citizens, of course, wholeheartedly support. Of course, electoral expenditure must be monitored and monitored, of course it must be monitored. We have promoted, for example, that a single electoral dispatch be made with all the ballots of all the parties, but the other groups do not want to. That would be a good reduction in election spending, because effectively mailing, as has also been said here, is very expensive. The essential principles of our legal system are political participation, political pluralism, the participation of civil society, competition on equal terms, which has been said in a very correct way: sports in the campaign. But what's going on? That the parties of the old politics and some of the parties of the new politics, or at least that they presume, do not like. They want the monopoly of politics. They want the chiringos, the manger and the customer networks, they want the interest of the party; they don't want the interest of the Spaniards, which is what my party fights for, Citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u29	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to deal with this proposal put to us by the Navarra Parliament. We very much appreciate the presence of the parliamentarians who have decided to accompany us today, this is their home. You are welcome to this house, which is everyone's house, the house of the word. From Navarre - and we appreciate it - there is an issue which, although it comes from autonomy, for once does not only affect a particular or specific interest in a territory, but affects us all and everyone and the quality of democracy. In this regard, I would like to thank the Navarra Parliament even more deeply for its concern about issues which, in addition to being of interest to Navarra, are of general interest. Let us hope that this proposal from the Navarro Parliament will have a warm welcome in this House, a good reception and at least that it will be allowed to be dealt with. Even if there are elements on which we can disagree, let us give the Parliament of Navarre the opportunity to be dealt with, and if necessary, with the improvements that are necessary, this proposal will be amended. Let us try to put the proposal in context. What is the context in which we have to deal with it? The context - already some of the colleagues who have spoken before me - is that of a democracy of quality, is that of article 23 of the Constitution, which clearly establishes this issue, but above all that of article 9.2 of the Constitution, which obliges us to remove all obstacles in order to ensure that the equality and access of citizens to the public authorities is effective; that is, that there are no legal limits, regulatory limits or legislative limits to the possibility of participation and to the best ways in which political participation takes place. Unfortunately or fortunately, in this case, the laws generate a counterproductive result which consists in that, if in a municipality of a thousand inhabitants a municipal group is created in order to try to worry directly, face-to-face, about the problems of citizenship itself, the candidacy can count only 1100 euros, and on top of that, if it is exceeded in a single euro, a fine of 50,000 euros can be dropped. This is clearly a counterproductive result of legislation, and we have a moral duty and a constitutional mandate to reform it. Point. The Constitution makes it very clear - only to read the text of article 9.2 - that we have no choice but to remove those obstacles that exist and to facilitate equal access to public office. This is the purpose of the proposal. Although there are some elements in which we can disagree and which we will already have an opportunity to improve it, let us give the Navarra Parliament an opportunity and, please, let us take this initiative into consideration. The municipal sphere has many specificities. I was preceded by Mr Robles of the VOX party, and I would like to say, Mr Robles, are you really a professor? What do you teach the students? Do you know what you've told us? He has told us exactly that state policy, that national policy, is the natural vision of politics; he has told us that politics is action at the national level and not at the municipal level, and he has told us that politics is the art of governing a state. Do you really explain that to your students? Didn't you read Plato? You don't know about etymology? Don't you know what the political word means? Don't you know that politics is the discipline of the police, of the city, of the municipality? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Politics in its essence, in its nature, is the science that studies the relations of an individual with his fellow citizens, and that naturally arises, arises spontaneously, emerges primarily in the municipality. It is in the municipality where the citizen, where the individual transcends the domus, transcends the domestic sphere and begins to worry about the general interest of his fellow citizens. And this is the wonder, the jewel that we have in this country, that there are so many people who dedicate their lives, with altruism, with a deep sense of general interest, to worry about their neighbors and to improve the conditions of their neighbors, most of them sacrificing their own conditions. It is absolutely sad, regrettable, all that you have defended here. It is the antithesis of politics, it is the opposite of what Plato thought, and it is the opposite of our constitutional mandate and a concept of advanced democracy. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry! It is simply unfortunate and sad that these things are defended. And it is sad in a country where political pluralism is so valued. Article 1 of the Constitution not only speaks of freedom, equality and justice, but also of political pluralism when political pluralism is in freedom, but so on and so forth. And why do you insist? Because we came from a country without political pluralism, and pluralism is the greatest thing a society has. But when you begin to speak of pluralism and assume it with these words, very typical of you, you have said exactly: It is a tumor that must be exterminated, referring to these local groups to which you have linked, doing all kinds of exercises of prestidigitation, to violence. This is the real country, the country that doesn't think mostly like you and the country that you understand as a tumor that needs to be exterminated. This is the sad view of those who do not understand pluralism and those who are confronted with the fundamental mandate since article 1 of the Constitution and, unfortunately, call themselves constitutionalists. [[Applauds]] Anyway, that's what we got. Very sad! Dear colleague and fellow Members of the Parliament of Navarre, it is a real privilege to have been able to request the consideration of this initiative, which, as I said, is not only for the particular interest of many people who are given to public action in an unselfish way not only in Navarre, but in all the territories of this wonderful country. Let us give them the opportunity to compete in conditions if not in full equality, in conditions of lesser inequality with the great choices we represent. Let us act with solidarity and fulfil what is our mandate. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the speeches that some have made from this rostrum on matters that are not directly related to the issue that we are dealing with this afternoon, the reality is that the Navarro Parliament is bringing us today an initiative that has a dual objective: on the one hand, to modify the rule to define the limit of expenditure in local elections, that is, the maximum amount that political formations can spend on election campaigns and, on the other, to modulate sanctions in case of non-compliance with those limits. That is exactly what we are discussing and not anything else, so I will stick to that in my speech, out of respect for the Navarro Parliament, starting with some reflections that, ladies and gentlemen, I think can help us a lot to understand better than we are talking about. As you know, the Constitution gave political parties two essential functions in democracy: to contribute to the formation of the popular will and to be fundamental instruments of political participation, which the Electoral Law then extended to the constituencies. Precisely because of this, they are subject to rights and also subject to obligations, and the first obligation that the parties have is to be legal and meet the requirements for being able to run for election, and that is decided by the electoral boards and the courts of justice, gentlemen of VOX. But parties must be, above all, an annex to exemplary, exemplary compliance, but also austerity and transparency, and therefore their accounts are monitored on a permanent basis and in each election campaign by the Court of Auditors. Why was it established, ladies and gentlemen, that the parties should have a limit on election spending? Undoubtedly - I have already said - for austerity, but also to guarantee another very important principle: equality of competition and opportunities between all parties; all, the same limit and all subject to the same rule. Thus, the Electoral Law defined that the maximum amount that each political formation could be spent in campaigning would be the result of multiplying 11 cents of euro by the legal population of the municipalities in which such formation will be presented. To this rule was added another, and it is that, in the provinces where a training can occur in more than 50% of the municipalities, an additional amount could be spent, logically because it is not the same to campaign in a province for 2 or 5 municipalities as to 60 or 180. Finally, only 20 % of the campaign budget may be allocated to external advertising and 20 % to press and radio. Those are the rules, those are the limits, ladies and gentlemen, the same for all; rules and limits that in case of non-compliance must entail a sanction. That is precisely what we did in the 2015 reform, when we developed a complete sanctioning regime on the basis of the same principle that must inspire the parties' action: exemplary in their action and exemplary in the sanction as well. It was thus established that those who exceeded the expenditure limits in elections would be punished by a proportional fine between double and fivefold of the excess expenditure produced, in addition to setting minimum amounts ranging from 5000 to 50,000 euros in case the excess expenditure exceeds 10% of the limits set by law. That is where the problem has occurred, that dysfunction which seeks to solve this initiative and which seems reasonable to us. The practical application of this regime may in some cases lead to the imposition of excessive fines, thereby breaking the principle of proportionality which must govern any sanctioning regime, and this can be corrected by eliminating the minimum amounts in the fines. That is something that the Court of Auditors itself has asked of us in a motion, which, by the way, I have to say, in its already settled sanctioning procedures has not yet firmly applied the minimum amounts in fines, I say this for some things that have been said in this forum and which do not obey reality. We agree with that deletion that you are proposing, but in the same way we must also assess what kind of sanction should be imposed on groups of voters who do not present any kind of accounting, something you have not referred to. What we will certainly not be able to agree with is his proposal to break the principle of equality in the spending limit of the parties in local elections, as his initiative contains different rules depending on the size of the municipality by establishing that parties and groups that present themselves in municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants will be able to spend twice as much per capita as those that present themselves in municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. That's something that can lead to new imbalances, I don't know if you've noticed, and I'm going to give you an example. According to his proposal, training in a municipality of 11,000 inhabitants could spend more on the campaign than training in a municipality of 21,000. Do the math and you'll see I'm right. That is neither logical nor proportional nor reasonable, and that is why we cannot support this initiative. We can understand that the casuistic of the Autonomous Community of Navarre has led them to bring this proposal, but I have to remind them, as others have also said, that this article that you propose to reform, the 193 of the Electoral Law, has a basic character, that is, that it applies in local elections for all the municipalities of Spain, and we will have to reflect on whether the model that you propose to us is extrapolable also to the rest of Spain, because it has nothing to do with the average size of municipalities in autonomous communities such as Navarre or Madrid with that of those in Castilla and León or Galicia, to put some example. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in the Navarro Parliament, some spoke of tailor-made suits. There can be no tailor-made suits in the Electoral Act; there can be no election laws à la carte depending on the interest of one or other political force or of one or other territory. Any amendment to the Electoral Law must always be made by consensus and with the general interest in mind. That is why we, even though we are going to abstain from this proposal, are going to do so from a compromise, the commitment to address this debate in the subcommittee for the reform of the Electoral Law that has just been created within the Constitutional Commission. In our opinion, this is the best place to discuss how we correct these dysfunctions in the sanctioning regime and also to discuss and evaluate other proposals that will improve the exercise of the right to political participation in local elections, that is, taking into account the general interest and the territorial structure of municipalities throughout Spain, not only of an autonomous community. That will be our position and also our commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Cerdán León has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u33	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to greet comrades Mikel, Marisa and Pablo. But, before discussing the Navarra Parliament's proposal, I wanted to address Mr Robles to tell him that there is no more enemy of Spain than anyone who does not understand plurality and calls the Navarros provincials from their fascist group. [[Applauds]] Navarra is plural, it is diverse and open, and - believe me - the Navarras are delighted that it is so. Mr. Uriarte has tried to explain it to you, but no matter how hard they try, they won't understand it. His speech, plagued with lies and hatred, does not deserve further words. The Parliament of Navarre, of which I had the honour of being a party in previous legislatures, brings us a proposal for a law to amend in a partial way both the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime and the Organic Law of Financing Political Parties, mainly to raise the ceiling of electoral expenditure in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and, in turn, to lower the sanctions for those actors in the electoral process who fail to comply with this ceiling of expenditure. The debate on the desirability of reforming our electoral system is not unusual for this plenary session of Congress. Not only in this legislature, but in previous ones there has been debate on this matter. In fact, some aspects have been changed. This plenary session and its Constitutional Commission have discussed the need to address issues such as limiting electoral expenses, zipping lists, voting abroad, regulating electoral debates, the possible extension of the electoral corps to young people over the age of sixteen, municipal censorship motions and many other matters affecting the electoral regime. And during these years reforms have been approved for such diverse aspects as the prohibition of pre-campaign electoral advertising, the eight-day limitation of the electoral campaign of elections automatically called for by the failure of the investiture procedure or the introduction of electoral parity as a requirement for the submission of lists. Firstly, the Socialist Group wants to make a statement of recognition of our electoral system. We have a strong system, which guarantees that it fulfils the constitutional mandate to ensure political plurality; an effective electoral system that enables the institutional processing of the will of citizens. Also, a system that allows the constitutional mandate that gives political parties the role of expression of political pluralism, contributing to the formation of the manifestation of popular will, these being the fundamental instrument for political participation. However, the whole system is susceptible to improvement and refinement. Aware of this, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies approved on April 15, with 330 votes in favour and 9 abstentions, the proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommission for the reform of the electoral regime; a subcommission that has been promoted by the PSOE and United We can and that will continue the analysis work started two legislatures ago and that was interrupted by the call for elections of April 2019. This subcommission, once constituted, shall have an extended period of six months for the submission of an opinion. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Congress is going to vote against the proposal for a law presented to us today for consideration, not so much because of its content, because we can agree on the substance, but because we consider it more appropriate than the proposal brought by the Parliament of Navarre to be included in the general framework of precise reforms of our electoral system, as Mr Bul himself has also proposed in his speech, that is to say, that it is included in the work of the subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms of the Electoral Law are state reforms because they shape the rules of the democratic game and must therefore be undertaken under three premises. The first, the rigorous and documented study of the subjects to be reformed; the second, the comprehensive analysis of the topics that could be addressed and, finally, the search for maximum consensus among the political forces as a whole. For our group, these three elements are essential to shape an electoral reform. They can be dealt with fully effectively through a subcommittee such as the one set up within the Constitutional Commission, which, after convening experts and group negotiations, will deliver an opinion which, if adopted at the plenary session, will serve as the basis for a Loreg reform initiative which, in a single text, will undertake various reforms. This is the legislative iter that we consider most appropriate and not the partial processing of various proposals for reforms disconnected from each other. That is why, although we agree with the Navarra Parliament, we believe that it is better to do so in the proper way, rather than in the light of this proposal for a law. And so, in the same way that I am announcing that our vote is against today, I also announced to you our commitment, as a majority group, to bring to the subcommittee of the Loreg the concern and the approaches advocated by the Parliament of Navarre today in this plenary, so that a consensus can be reached within it. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko. [[Mr Robles López asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cerdán. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Yes, Mr. Robles? I'm sorry, because we didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u35	I invoke article 72, by reference to allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u36	The 71st. Yes, you tell me what allusion you're referring to.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u37	103. For allusion to my group as a fascist group. I ask you to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. We have nothing to do with that political ideology. This is only a tool used by the Socialist Party or We can to insult us and so that, as soon as we disagree with something they defend, we are branded as perpetrators of hate crimes. This has nothing to do with that pluralism that you have mentioned here, and what it is about, if you do not agree with us, is to discuss exactly our positions, not to encapsulate our arguments with an insult. And to Mr. Uriarte I want to tell you to read The Republic of Plato, which has not done so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Robles. I think you have had the opportunity to express your position widely.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u39	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress amending Rule 46.1. I would remind you that, in accordance with the second final provision of the Rules of Procedure, their approval will require the approval of the absolute majority of the House. An amendment has been tabled to this proposal for reform. For his defence, by the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u40	With all due respect, Madam President. Proposal to reform the Rules of Congress, which has the value or rank of law. Observe the proponents of the proposal: Socialist Party, Podemos and People's Party. And what is the purpose of the proposition? The number and name of the standing legislative committees. That is to say, all those committees on which the three parties mentioned above are divided as presidents, vice-presidents and secretariats at the bureaux of such committees, excluding, of course, from the beginning of the parliamentary term to VOX, which has more deputies in this House than we can. And for what purpose? In order to exclude VOX from those governing bodies of the committees concerned and to ensure that all members of the bureaux receive the remuneration supplement corresponding to that benefit. Nothing more. Therefore, here - I was going to say for the umpteenth time; no, let alone one because we will see this again whenever there is remodelling of the government-you persist in the twenty-one standing legislative committees, with a clear excess that the only thing that was intended, as it was known at the time, was to enter such commissions, in perfect correlation in number with the number of ministerial portfolios, to the beneficiaries for this purpose of the coalition of government between PSOE and Podemos; of course, how not, with the unwavering support of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And there is no reason why there should be twenty-one standing legislative committees. None of them are any. In other words, there is not a single precept in the Rules of Procedure of the House that there should be the same number of standing legislative committees as the number of ministerial portfolios. Not one. Then there is no regulatory reason. Here there is no reason for legality, here there is reason for opportunity interested: to control the organs of the House and to receive this additional remuneration for that number of people, who are exactly five per twenty-one. That is to say, 105 people who benefit from the existence of such a number and who charge a little more than we do Members who are not part of such tables, and for this reason to a great deal of honor. [[Applauds]] Our amendment proposes a reduction from twenty-one to seventeen committees, i.e. a reduction of slightly more than 20%, a moderate reduction. It could have been an overreaction, greater, there would be no inconvenience, but neither have we wanted to sin from going to the extreme in this pretension, a pretension that we do not know what fate will run but that we suspect that, in view of this strange super-majority that constitute PSOE, Podemos and Partido Popular, it is not going to prosper, clearly. All this is already repeated throughout this legislature because, when it has been necessary to change the composition of some table, the People's Party has systematically allied itself with the PSOE and Podemos to exclude from the tables of the committees VOX in favor of Podemos, which, I insist, is a party that has far fewer deputies than VOX. And something similar happened when the Spanish delegation, made up of Members and Senators, was formed at the Conference on the Future of the European Union, in which, to our perplexity and indignation, I must say, these parties - in reality all but VOX - agreed that the representatives were one of the PSOE, one of the PP, one of Podemos and, astonishment!, one of the Basque Nationalist Party, surely so that there was no defect in that conference of a nationalist voice with separatist pretensions that would make such an unsustainable secessionist claim under Spanish constitutional law and under European law. But, in the end, they wanted to give them that rostrum too, so that they could express themselves and attack national unity. All this, as you can understand, is nothing but a cause for scandal; a small scandal because in the end the distribution of that money is a miserable distribution, because it is little money, you will tell me; nothing, it is about hundreds, thousand euros. But, ladies and gentlemen, in a situation like that in Spain, you have repeated the same operation with this boldness and this contempt for the difficulty that Spanish families suffer in this time of economic hardship related to the epidemic of the coronavirus; that you have repeated exactly the same, with contempt for all dignity in the retributive field, regarding the previous situation, which was the reason for this tripartite operation PP, PSOE and Podemos When the Regulation was reformed to this end on February 5, 2020, that is, immediately before the epidemic, it does not cease to be a shame and immorality. Therefore, we do not understand that Mr Bermúdez de Castro, in a previous round on another item on the agenda, speaks of exemplaryness. But what exemplaryness are you going to speak of on the basis of? If you are the example of what should not be done, and you do it every day in this House and you do it every day in Spanish political life. You are the denial of public exemplaryness, which you have come to share in such a sad episode with this social-communist coalition that governs Spain for its misery. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, every time you can use demagogy as an excuse to table amendments, not to table them, to decide certain votes; you make real balances with demagogy in this rostrum to get closer and closer to that maximum that populisms, in the end, touch and join. You are just as populists as the Members of the United Nations can and as the extreme left of this House, because this amendment which you have tabled is not understood in any other way. Look, you can tell, but it is that, Mr Sánchez, from what you have said here you seem to sense that, since you are not at the tables, you do not have to make any reform, but that if you were, then perhaps you are. Talking about money and savings is an absolute demagogy, because do you know where this House's budget is? In the General Budgets of the State. Have you tabled any amendments to the General State Budgets? They didn't even look at them! [[Applauds]] That is where you have to put the amendments. But if the budget of this House is already allocated for the whole year! What do you want to save? Why do they tell lies to society? Why do you tell lies to citizens? If you are not going to save anything for changing 11, 12, 7 or 21 commissions. If it's a lie, man! You present the amendments where you have to submit them, which is in the General Budgets of the State, rather than passing them on. [[Applauds]] In addition, in your explanatory statement you talk about artificial administrative structures. How what artificial administrative structures? If the committees are parliamentary bodies, Mr Sánchez! What parliamentary body do you think is an administrative structure? And, besides, artificial? It is true - and I buy it from you - that this Parliament is sovereign in deciding whether there should be 21, 17 or 14 committees, of course it is, of course it is, and it does not necessarily have to go to the government structure, for that it is a different power. What am I going to explain to you about the separation of powers and powers from the State? Sounds like a lie. Of course we could say something else, but most people vote and choose what this House chooses, which is the representation of all. If you want to change the Rules of Procedure, bring a proposal to change the Rules of Procedure, which much needs to be changed in this House, of course - we have said it many times - and bring it into line with the reality of our country at this time and bring it into line with the 21st century. Bring that, but not an amendment as absurd and ridiculous as this. And what a coincidence! Where do you want to take out commissions?: social rights, comprehensive policies for disability, equality... everything that seems to bother you or that you consider it superfluous and that here we should not even talk about those issues. Therefore, do not deceive the citizens, because it is something continuous that deception that you want to make to the citizens. You, and we have also seen it in your colleague's previous speech, when we were talking about the legal reform proposed by the Parliament of Navarre, if at some point - neither God nor anyone - they ruled this country with a majority, what they would want is to charge Parliament, to charge Congress, because they do not need it. [[applause]] Or they would like a Parliament similar to some others that has been before, at a somewhat dark stage in this country. No; this is the representation of all and here things are done by consensus and by majorities, and you don't have it to be at a table. We're not at any committee table, but I'm not crying around the corners because I'm not on a committee table. If I don't have enough support to be on a committee table, because I'm not, but I'm not going to cry because I'm not on a committee table... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u44	... although there are parties with less representation than ours that are on committee tables. But I'm not going to cry, Mr. Sánchez; it seems like a lie. Please stop attacking the institutions, because it seems a lie that a party like yours will do anything to attack the institutions. What you want is to constantly discredit the institutions, and that is something that the left does, I did not expect from you, except in that concept that, in the end, the extremes are always touched, Mr Sánchez. The ends always touch. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I do not want to go out in the gallery, I am going to intervene from here because I am going to make a very short, and also redundant, intervention to inform the House of two elements which are well known by the House. The first is that, indeed, Mr Sánchez, the People's Party is part of the Jewish-masonic-Soviet conspiracy, and what happens is that they hide it very well. I would recommend that you never play poker with Mrs. Gamarra because she's going to take it out, with those skills they have for the cover-up. Secondly - also a redundancy, something known to this House - which committees want to eliminate VOX from this House? Equality, Social Rights, International Cooperation... I've said everything. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that some speeches do not cease to surprise me, and much more so given that you, Mr de VOX, yesterday voted in favour of this initiative. And it is that today, with its usual style, some have been confused with debate and I fear that, once again, also as an adversary. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not new in this House. We had it in February last year, as it is a parliamentary custom to adapt the organization and designation of the legislative commissions to the organizational structure of the Government. Today we do so again as a result of changes in some ministries following the government crisis last July. And with it, what do we get? We have made it possible for this House to fulfil more effectively its legislative function and, above all, its function of monitoring and supervising a government that has recently shown itself to be allergic to parliamentary control, and that strengthens our constitutional functions and favours all Members of this House, especially the groups that we exercise the work of opposition, Mr Sánchez. However, some people are confusing the debate again. Can you tell me what the composition of the bureaux of the committees, whose presidents, vice-presidents and secretaries have been elected by a majority of the Members of this House with the name and organisation of the bureaux? Or do you accept the creation or existence of a commission on the basis that you have a position in it? Is that a serious argument? Is that your exemplary, Mr. Sanchez? Of course, that doesn't hold. Nor can I allow them to accuse us of coming here to distribute charges and complements, and to do so with mendacious arguments to confuse the Spaniards. [[Rumors]] Because you know - or you should know - that the general rule of this House is that when a Member is elected to a position at the committee tables and is also appointed on behalf of his group as a spokesman or deputy spokesman in any of them, he only receives complements for one of those positions, not for each of them. That's the general rule. Perhaps in your case or that of your group's spokesperson is different, you should clarify it, but not for others. Ladies and gentlemen, we all come here to work and to fulfil our parliamentary functions, and that kind of speech is very unfair and does not help at all to dignify the work of Parliament, that of all Members and also that of Members of the parliamentary group. Moreover, that is not the debate that this House deserves. The debate is to ask ourselves whether we think it is rational to adapt the name and powers of the committees to the structure of the Government, and our answer is yes, and we think it is parliamentary logic. However, does that mean that we endorse this and that the structure of the current Government seems rational to us? No, not at all. It still seems to us that the current structure of the Government is absolutely excessive and does not respond to the general interest, but rather responds to a political power-sharing pact between PSOE and Podemos, which has led us to have the most expensive Government of our democracy. It would have been too much if such an increase in ministries had been moved in a mimetic way to the number of legislative committees, but it has not been so, ladies and gentlemen. Commissions have changed their names and denominations, but their number remains the same as in the last two legislatures: twenty-one commissions, including those established by law. That is why we cannot support the amendments that VOX reiterates to us again and that you have not even been able to defend in this rostrum. I'll make a brief reference to them. Concretizing in one commission the powers of four ministries, as you propose to us, the only thing that would produce is precisely the opposite effect that is intended: a loss of control over the government in those ministries. I would also like to remind you that the International Development Cooperation Commission cannot be abolished because it is established by article 15 of the International Development Cooperation Act. And with regard to the abolition of the Equality Commission, I must reiterate to you that we do not agree on that, because one thing is that we do not accept that the fight for equality is an exclusive heritage of the left and that we criticize the ideological sectarianism of the declarations and policies of the present minister, and another is that we do not think that there is still a way to go to achieve equal treatment and opportunities between Spaniards or to further reduce the wage gap between men and women. To that end, that committee must continue to play a very important role. But that we do not agree with your amendments and that we have reached an institutional agreement in committees at the beginning of the parliamentary term does not mean that we are in disquiet with the Socialist Group or the Podemos Group or that we are giving support to the Government. Perhaps that is what you did by allowing the discretionary allocation of European funds. We have not done that, so I would ask you not to be mistaken as an adversary, because we are not supporting the Government with this initiative - and I conclude with this - but what we are doing is supporting this House, which is something different, to move away from political disputes, what we are doing is fulfilling our responsibility to make control of the Government more effective, which is the main function and what groups should devote to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u50	Good afternoon. For a while it seems that here the three partners who rule in so many places are arguing. Let us see, Mr Sánchez, as has been said in some previous speech, all this seems to be a rabies, a regret that you are not in the committee bodies, because, for what we have deduced from your words, if you were, this amendment would not be here. This amendment seems more like a declaration of intent than an amendment to a proposal for a reform of the regulation. In fact, it seems more like a political programme than a proposal; more like an idea than an attempt to improve parliamentary control of this house. With this amendment, the Committees on International Cooperation for Development, Social Rights and Comprehensive Policies on Disability and, of course, Equality are removed from the table. The committees that eliminate it is not by chance, they are not randomly chosen, they are those in which we work parliamentary initiatives that seek, among others, to protect or improve the lives of those who need it most. With his initiative, we are going to dilute the work that is done in these commissions, where rules are developed or amended, or where action and control is promoted to the Government, in order to solve aspects that affect the most vulnerable people. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, those who are most vulnerable are the ones who need politics most, they are the ones who have the most visibility, and you want to hide them. That is why we want those commissions to remain, with those names and with those contents. In short, this proposal is a whole hierarchy of priorities of your party, a whole political programme of reactionary formation, like yours. As has already been said, this amendment also violates Act No. 23/1998 of 7 July 1998 on International Cooperation, article 15.3 of which explicitly states that a parliamentary committee on International Development Cooperation must be set up in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. Don't you want a Development Cooperation Commission? Well, try to change the law; follow the procedure. Of course, for that to happen we must add majorities, we must seek consensus, reach agreements; a gulf. What I'm surprised is that they've stayed on seventeen commissions. Why seventeen? Can you explain it to us? In their proposal they do not justify that number. As they do not justify it in any way, we are going to bring your proposal to absurdity and, instead of 17 we could have said thirteen, ten or five; altogether... this Parliament is expensive and cumbersome, even organizing elections is also expensive. Let's get him even more absurd. In this House we were saving a barbarity during the dictatorship in control of the government, we had zero parliamentary control committees; that is, we saved a lot of money. If what concerns them is expenditure, as they justify in their amendment and as has been said here, they do not suffer. There were twenty-one commissions and there will continue to be twenty-one, as in the last two legislatures. There is therefore no increase in expenditure. You know very well that this reform is a parliamentary tradition; it is a mere adjustment of the structure of this House to encourage, among other things, control of the Government, as has always been done, always. With their proposal, therefore, they do not seek to comply, as they say in their justification, with the principles of economy, efficiency, efficiency and equity in public spending. No; what you want to do is dilute the commissions that deal with some of the issues that bother you most and that usually despise without disguise. Pure ideology disguised as savings. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will gladly vote not on your proposal, which despises this house and these institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Navalpotro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u52	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on violent attacks and acts of intolerance and discrimination against LGBT people. Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u53	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, good afternoon. Even in Ireland they approve of gay marriage. The firmness of the West's sleepwalk rushes into the abyss. That's by a VOX candidate. The Gay Pride is a caricature and a denigrating day. Said by Rocío Monastery. If my son was shomosexual, I'd rather not have grandchildren. In other words, another MEP from VOX. Why do gays celebrate Valentine's Day if theirs isn't love, it's just vice? Director of VOX Communication. In Spain we have moved from beating homosexuals to imposing their law, Espinosa de los Monteros. Marriage is the union between a man and a woman, of Santiago Abascal. I don't know if these are words of love or hate. It's obvious that these are, gentlemen ultras of VOX, hate speech. This is just an exquisite selection of your pearls against the LGTB collective. And yes, hate speech has consequences, it has consequences. [[Applauds]] Spain is a pioneer country in the defence of civil rights. The vast majority of Spaniards and Spaniards look forward to LGBT people and, despite this, hate crimes are still increasing in recent times: 748 complaints in the first half of this year, 9% more than in the same period of 2019. That is why it is important to denounce, that is why it is important to visualize, that is why it is important to bring these issues to debate here, to the Congress of Deputies, and that all groups get wet. To denounce, to visualize, but the political representatives also have an obligation to generate the political tools necessary to combat that hatred, that violence, that fight against diversity. The President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, recently announced some of these measures that are incorporated into existing measures to combat such hatred; for example, these new specific units and more training in the State Security Forces and Bodies. We were also asked by the President-in-Office to speed up the efforts of the Members of Parliament to make the so-called Zerolo law a reality as soon as possible and to help us combat this hatred. Having said that, I would also like to take the opportunity to reflect - even if I may fail to begin - on the drivers of hatred. Let's see if you have empathy with these people you call vicious or think we can't get married or'we can't have kids. Can you imagine what it's like to be afraid to give your partner a hand in public? Can you imagine what it's like to be afraid to kiss that person you like and know? Can you imagine what must pass through the mind of a child - and I can imagine it - when you think you'll never be able to get out of the closet and you'll have to live your whole damn life a lie? Can you imagine what that is? Can you imagine what goes through a parent's mind when their child tells them it's LGTB? And not because they are homophobes or transfugues, but because of the horrific atmosphere that you create, that father and that mother instead of saying, 'we're not even with you', convey concern. And what does that son and daughter feel when they see that their father and mother are concerned about a sexual orientation or gender identity they have not chosen? Either you have no idea, ultra VOX gentlemen or you're very cruel. Their discourses generate much pain, they generate much suffering and yes, hate speech generates violence and if not, let them tell these people, all these people LGTB, who are more than ever being assaulted or insulted. And if not, let them tell Samuel, murdered in the cry of'maricón' [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I imagine that harassing and humiliating LGBT people is not enough; you also come here to hide yourself from this grave situation by proposing an amendment in which you call on the Minister of the Interior to reprimand and to add to the text the condemnation of attacks on VOX. Really? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u55	Either you're narcissists or you take this very little seriously. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, these are your partners. Socialists have to sell our rights in exchange for some governments. We do not understand what they did in the European Parliament by distancing themselves from their own group and voting against the recognition of LGBT families in all the States of the European Union. You guys are always late. Try to bring down the homosexual marriage, even if then they get married. They try, as their alleged companion Ayuso has done, to demonize the LGTB collective and the organizations that work to make Spain a better country. Please make a reflection. My last message in these seconds I want it to be for the LGBTBI people from all over Spain and especially for the younger people. You have to know that it has always been and will continue to be so, you have to know that here you have every man and every woman in the Socialist Party, not only, but here you have us; that we are not going to take a step back; that the threats of VOX do not give us any fear, run to the courts, no fear!; that we are going to plant face to hate; that we are going to plant face to what you represent, because, as the great Pedro Zerolo said, you defend a Spain in which only you and we defend a Spain in which we all belong. Socialists defend the right to love, to desire, to feel and to express ourselves as we wish. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we have a non-legislative proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is obviously a non-legislative proposal for a complaint. It's a denunciation rather than a non-legislative proposition. It is a well-bred complaint, because, unfortunately, the events we have experienced on the last dates, by all known, by all accused and by some questioned, are truly like to be denounced in a rostrum like this. [[The Lord]] The denunciation made by the Socialist Group in explaining some facts, facts which we share and which we are clear that they are clearly denouncing, has a operative part, namely the Petitum, which is, after all, a very simple Petitum, but which, in view of the amendments which have been tabled by other groups, ours included, has ended up having more force, having more force the transactional to which it has come, which includes the different requests which the various groups made, because we consider them important. I'll get to that in the end. The truth is that we have recently come to a situation where I am not going to make a summary, which will surely have been made, but the data are unquestionable. The data are as follows: the number of assaults has increased; the use of both verbal and physical violence has increased precisely for those people who by their sexual identity are considered enemies. We live in a society where unfortunately things like that happen, and if things like that happen, the least we can do is to ask ourselves why it happens, what is happening so that in things we understand that in progress, in social progress we had fortunately overcome, we would make such a giant setback that those issues that have cost us so much to achieve as a society have now been questioned, but not only questioned from a dialectical perspective, but questioned with violent actions. It is not a question of whether it is ten, whether it is twenty, or whether it is forty-seven. The mere fact that there is a discourse that sustains in some way that someone, so far as it is, at one point thought so, that homosexuals are faggots and that they should not have public place or ability to exhibit their sexual identity, those who, so far as it is in their complex, thought so and see that there are certain discourses that legitimize and value this, they say: well, I am not the weird one. If there are certain people who go on TV, who have the capacity to speak in public, who hold charges and question things that for others have been a social advance and put them in question and even publicly denigrate, sign that I can exercise that contempt towards the third in the way that suits me best. Therefore, it is not true that certain political-ideological positions in this State have been increasing homophobic aggressions. And that's clear. Why? Because, as I was saying, some speeches legitimize the possibility of questioning that someone may have a different sexual identity or may want anyone. I am not saying that he who thinks so always acts like this, but he who acts like this has the legitimation of an ideology that is behind that gives him enough cover to consider his action legitimate. And that's what's happened in this state lately. It is therefore clear that there must be elements for detection, including detention, and for prosecution and police action, no doubt, but it must be bidirectional. We will not have a society in which this disappears if we do not have a system of education in sufficient values so that this is considered by all to be something denigrating, something repugnant and so that in the minds of the next generations there is no room to think that it is legitimate to beat someone for their sexual identity or to accuse him and harass him on the networks for their character, for whom he thinks he wants to love or who he does not want to love. Having said that, we will support the compromise amendment. I just want to say to the VOX Group that it has tabled an amendment in which, without anyone saying anything, they were automatically alluded to in the non-legislative proposal, because the first thing they say is: How are they getting involved with the third party! Let the protagonists not be you! That this goes from something else, that this goes from defending the assaulted, not you. Don't be assaulted because you're not. [[Applauds]] In this sense, there's a sentence I'm going to finish with: who bites him, garlic eats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u59	Hello. Very good afternoon. Very nice late. It seems to me mandatory to start by remembering that yesterday a mother couldn't pick up her children at school because she was murdered in Villajoyosa, Alicante, supposedly by her partner. [[Applauds]] I think we must remember this because we must always remember the macho violence, but more so when we are talking about a GNP, an initiative that seeks to combat LGBTphobia and machismo, which are completely related, start from the same problem and, therefore, it is always relevant to remember the victims and more with the issue we are dealing with. I have been turning a lot on how to focus this intervention because I believe that we have lived a few very turbulent days, that there is a great deal of pain involved in this issue and we have witnessed it these days. I believe that we must be immensely respectful and respectful of the pain and all these experiences of pain that have been shared during these days, and which I thank infinitely. I believe that no one in all Spanish society escapes that there are people who contribute to hate crimes and legitimize them without the need to punch, just as no one escapes that in this Chamber there are political representatives who have made it their raison d'être, they are people who sow fear, traffickers of fear, managers of fear, as the writer Nobel Prize winner Herta Müller said. But after a lot of reflection, since they, as we have seen in the amendments, have the will to be protagonists of everything, even of the phobias of LGBT aggressions, I have decided not to make them the protagonists of this intervention. I want to start with a few words from my admired feminist and professor of Philosophy Fina Birulés, who says: if we are dedicated to fighting those who shout, we will end up shouting. Therefore, in my speech I want to escape the cry and try to build from a paused reflection - all the forceful that it is necessary to be, but paused - and stop for a moment. We will, of course, support GNP; indeed, the Ministry of Equality has promoted a law on LGBTI and trans rights, which must be adopted with the utmost urgency and consensus. This law already tells us what is the path for us to follow in public policies and LGBTI. In the face of this increase in undeniable aggressions, we cannot simply respond to fear with more police on the streets or with the Penal Code alone; we must aim at the structures that feed this LGTBphobia, machismo and hatred to the different. Here we think it is necessary to broaden the focus. These days we have heard with a chill the figures for the increase of hate crimes against LGBTI people, and I think it is also important to rescue here the figures for the aggressions of hate crimes on racist grounds, which amount to 34.6% of the total recorded incidents, and I would also like to point out that there is a significant and alarming increase in anti-Egyptism. It is important to note that all of these hate crimes share the same origin. LGBT people, women, racialized people very often have an assigned place and if we dare to leave these assigned places, if we move from these sites can be considered by certain people that we are violating unwritten rules that authorize violence against us. This we think is not changed by security solutions or positivists merely. That is why we have tabled an amendment focusing on education, which seems to us to be fundamental to enter fully into this debate, because we think it has to be one of the most important axes of public policies against LGBTIphobia. However - and here I return for a moment to Fina Birulés - we cannot leave everything either to education, we cannot leave all responsibility to the school. We must value the mimetism between adults and children, how boys and girls learn from us and how all our behaviors weigh and matter, how we relate, how we respond, our day to day in this Chamber, in the networks; we must be radically pacifist and not end up shouting like the people we try to fight. Finally, I would like to put on the table another very important fact: the profile of those arrested and investigated for hate crimes are men of Spanish nationality in their vast majority. I believe that this is why we need to push forward, as is already done, for example, from the Barcelona City Council, policies that work in diverse, plural masculinities, that turn to a model of violent masculinity... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u60	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u61	Yeah, I'm done. Don't get upset, there is no hatred of men, quite the contrary, there is a deep love for all human beings, because if I ask for another type of plural masculinities, diverse, it is not only to protect my daughter but that my son, when he is one day on the street having fun, as happened to Samuel, freely, will not end up murdered by this hatred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, if you really cared about LGBT people you would not have submitted this GNP at this time and with this intention. By succumbing to opportunism you have made it clear that your real goal is not to fight against hatred of LGBT people, but to re-use this collective as a bold weapon against VOX. Therefore, in order to be able to affirm the falsehood that the aggressions against the LGTB collective do not cease to increase in our country, you use the data of the ministry of 2019, which throw a rise of 8.6%, when the reality is that the number of these crimes remains stable since 2017 and when you know perfectly well that in 2021 we carry 748 complaints until July for all the hate crimes as a whole and that if the incidence of the second part of this year were the same would decrease the numbers again. [[shows a graph]] But you generate social alarm and continue to proclaim that there are thousands of homophobic attacks so as to blame VOX. They lie, manipulate the data and seek guilty, because what they are trying to bring here today is PNL not to protect from attacks on LGBT people, but to engulf, to sow hatred for VOX and to use people's suffering to harm others. This GNP, ladies and gentlemen, is a gross excuse, in addition to an indignity of a parliamentary group of its own size. What are they playing at asking for the process of processing the preliminary draft law to be expedited? What do you need to speed it up, if it is you who govern and have a majority in this House? [[Applauds]] This GNP is nothing more than a ridiculous paripé, a takeover of hair for an evil purpose, because deep down you don't care about the LGBTI people, you're interested in a lobby that gives you votes in exchange for prebends, a lobby that doesn't even represent all the LGBTI people in this country; and if not, ask homosexuals who don't share their views and who are therefore excluded and vilified. What can be expected of a lobby capable of cruelly charging against a father, Samuel's father, at the worst time of his life, just by asking him not to politicize or use his son's death? [[Applauds]] You are very concerned about hate crimes for sexual orientation, but do you know how many hate crimes for ideology have been committed this year, according to Ministry data? There have been 326.49 more than sexual orientation, but for that there will be no bill or awareness campaign, right? That's what happens when you think it's not as miserable to threaten, insult, beat or kill a person for being gay as being from VOX. To hate, ladies and gentlemen, is to feel antipathy and aversion to something or to someone whose evil is desired, and that is exactly what you are doing with the 52 deputies of VOX and with four million Spaniards, hating and persecuting us. But we have never wronged anyone, we have always condemned violence, any kind of violence, and whoever says otherwise lies, as the one who says VOX is against the LGTB collective vilely lies. [[Applauds]] VOX feels the same love, the same consideration and the same respect for all Spaniards without distinction, whatever their sexual condition. Every homosexual attacked hurts us and we care, we care about the safety, well-being, health and dignity of each member of this collective as much as that of any Spanish. Of course there are homophobic attacks, we do not deny reality, as you do, which deny that there are cultures that are homophobic, to which we open the doors without control, cultures in which homosexuals are persecuted, imprisoned and sentenced to death. You pretend to deny the reality that a homosexual or a transgender lives much more insecure in a neighborhood taken by this kind of illegal immigration than any other, a reality that we do dare to fight, but not because we hate, but because our obligation is to protect our own from those who do hate us and threaten to force us to impose their culture. [[applause]] You also deny the reality of false allegations and commit yourselves to sustenance and not to amend it, but, as you have seen, reality is clumsy and poetic justice. False complaints exist, ladies and gentlemen, and you have had to make a mockery these days to check in your own flesh that you cannot remove the presumption of innocence from our legal system because it is the only guarantee that the law of the jungle will not prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, what we all knew was going to happen here today. Today you have all given free rein to your hatred of VOX and all the Spaniards who support us, including homosexuals, who have tired of being collectively and instrumentalized, used politically, denigrated and degraded to a lower category of people, exactly the same as you have done to women. We are not going to support this proposal, but in return we call for the House's support for the replacement amendment that we have tabled, which leaves aside your sectarianism and the shameful political use you make of homosexuals. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has been able to witness this plenary today will have found that the only hatred that exists in this House is yours and that you have been thrown into the mud, because you no longer even have the capacity to fight with arguments, which is how politicians fight for their feet. But they will have to use themselves more thoroughly because they are more and more homosexuals who know that we are the only ones who defend the true equality between Spaniards, who know that they do not need their pity, their condescension, their gratifications or another flag that is not the one that surrounds us, protects us and lovingly welcomes us to all Spaniards without distinction, the flag of Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u65	Mr President, I am asking for the floor on the basis of Rule 103(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u66	Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u67	It is a matter of the House's decorum, the spokesman for VOX has spoken of homophobic cultures and illegal immigration. This is racism and is against the fundamental human rights that this House should protect. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u68	All right. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u69	How? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honour, you have already expressed it properly and it has already been reflected in the Journal of Sessions. Thank you. [[Rumors]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u71	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Last July my province, A Coruña, Galicia and all of Spain knew with horror and disbelief the news that a very young boy, aged 24, Samuel Luiz, had died the previous night in a central street in the city of A Coruña as a result of a beating. We do not yet know whether or not this is a hate crime, but in a tolerant, open and respectful society, such as Galicia, there are still violent and unacceptable attitudes. That these attitudes occur among the young, born and educated population in freedom and democracy is even more unbearable. Our love, our solidarity is with the family of Samuel Luiz and with the families and relatives of all the victims of horrible crimes and aggressions, such as that of the woman found yesterday in Villajoyosa, Alicante, who leaves three orphaned children and which this House - at least the People's Parliamentary Group and other groups - has not forgotten. [[Applauds]] In July you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, registered this non-legislative proposal with which we, the People's Parliamentary Group, agree on the fundamental issue: the rejection of all forms of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, on grounds of ethnicity, national origin, skin colour, age, disability, religion, as set out in our Constitution in Article 14. In substance, we agree that we would like to remind you that the aggravated hate crime entered the Spanish Penal Code with the reform of article 510 in 2015, governing the People's Party. But we do not agree with the way in which you have carried the true background to the presentation of this non-law proposal. We want to denounce the Government's instrumentalization of such a serious issue by which it has finally turned out to be a simulated crime, that of Malasaña. Because, surely, if you had known last week what we know this week, you would not have prepared a scenario that was politically favourable in such a careful way; you would not have rushed to bring this initiative to plenary, changing what you had planned on the agenda; you would not have convened with the utmost urgency the Follow-up Commission of the Action Plan to Combat the Crimes of Hate, a commission whose head was sat down by the President of the Government himself when he had never done so before; you would not have sent to the Minister of the Interior a television and radio tour to report an increase in hate crimes, as happened with the rest of the crimes - after the confinement, that occurred in all kinds of crimes - nor would you have published tweets alarming the population with an equally alleged and vertiginous increase of this type of crime in what goes on in the year: according to the Minister of Equality, 43 % in the first half of 2021, 32 percentage points more than those declared by the Minister of the Interior on the same day and that the rapporteur did not remind you of this law. You did not count on the effectiveness and transparency of the police, nor did the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, nor did Minister Marlaska himself, nor even the President of the Government, who in three days disassembled the case which caused so much alarm and which provoked the hasty outburst of the Government and its parliamentary group to point out as much as possible in his case against hate crimes, and his subsequent treachery and shambles which at this sitting have no choice but to remember. By the way, according to our legislation, it is also hate crimes - and it has been recalled here - that are committed by anti-Semitism, religious beliefs, disability, racism, xenophobia, ideology or discrimination on grounds of sex, but we have not seen you tandiligent in denouncing the aggression received by a member of the People's Party in the Basque Country at the hands of a radical of 20 years, an aggression that has been regarded by the prosecutor as a hate crime, also last week. Perhaps you do not agree with this rating, or is it that for the PSOE some hate crimes are first-class and others, on the other hand, are second-class? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you urge in your non-legislative proposal that the preliminary draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and the guarantee of the rights of LGBTI persons be adopted as soon as possible, when if it is delayed or accelerated only depends on you and your government partners, who do not agree, and you also call for work to raise awareness of the population by eradicating any traces of discrimination. But by using it in this way, as an instrument for your political benefit...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u72	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u73	I'm done, President. ... they distort it, do little favor to the cause of equality between all people and, in that case, to the real and effective equality of LGBT people. When this is your real goal, then you will be able to count on our support. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u74	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country where homophobic attacks occur almost daily. We mistakenly believed that everything was overtaken, but, unfortunately, we know that it is not. Statistics continue to grow. Only 10% of the cases are reported, and many of the victims, when they go to a police station, say that this is not the first time they have been assaulted, but the first time they have taken the step of telling the police. You are presenting us with an initiative that does not by far solve this very serious problem. You are aware of this because we have been waiting months for a law that remains blocked in this House. After what we experienced last week, following a false denunciation, with hasty but highly calculated political movements, the exercise we would have to do is reflect on why we have not been able to offer security and maximum guarantees to the victims. The fight against hatred cannot enter and exit the political agenda on the basis of partisan interests; it cannot continue to be instrumentalized in such a miserable way, neither as part of the epic of a president more focused on his personal story, nor as part of the message of those who still do not understand that his words have consequences. The complaints and fear are real, that no one is mistaken, each story is alarming, but the statistics do not speak of a tearing drama that has ended the lives of children, adolescents and adults who were victims of intolerance or those who continue to live in fear of facing a new aggression. Do not allow this matter to be diluted on the political agenda until a new case arises; the victims do not deserve it. What we want is not PNL; we want the Esquerra bill to be passed, or the preliminary draft bill to come into this House and we want it to be approved, because that will be measures. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u76	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u77	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. What has just happened is not only an isolated fact, but it is also absurd for someone to defend the rights of LGBT people from racism and that from the Bureau of Congress of the PSOE is allowed, while his deputy makes a brilliant speech - because it has to be said - on the fight against LGBT aggression; it is absurd, because power is profoundly macho and racist. [[Applauds]] That's how Rita Segato explains it. She talks about that Machist aggressions, feminicides, homophobic aggressions, transfugas, are conservative reactions, are like a kind of corrective dynamic of democratic societies, and that they are used by the right and the right. She talks about the new form of lordship. Well, do you know what's been going on since this analysis? The first thing is that responding to the Machist aggressions creating more fear of the people who suffer them does not make us more free, makes us more authoritarian. And making us more authoritarian makes us no less macho, but opens the door to speeches from the far right like that of VOX. The racist doesn't take away the sexist, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] We, the women, the buns, the faggots, the trans, want to live in peace and freedom; we do not want a society where there is even more police and more authoritarianism, because freedom has to be something much more like feminist education and culture than the demands of more police and more control. Let the common horizon be the feminisms and let the feminisms be the refuge to all the young men who occupy this band of the hemicycle [[pointing the seats to the right of the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u78	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u79	Mr President, we begin by expressing our deepest rejection of the attacks and showing our full solidarity and support to all victims of the attacks and hate attacks against LGBT people. As is being discussed in this Chamber, the LGTBphobia situation that we are experiencing at the state level, unfortunately, without being new, and as the data show, is undergoing a serious resurgence these summer months. It is a reality that our political formation is extremely concerned about, but it does not prevent us from seeing this initiative as a purely washing-out of the face of the Socialist Party. However, we will take this opportunity to recall that yesterday collectives and entities working to guarantee the rights of LGBTIQ+ people, such as Ikusgune or the Observatory against Homophobia in Catalonia, in addition to the Trans-State Platform, denounced the LGTBphobia spiral that is taking place in recent months and requested a meeting of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. They urgently call for the creation of a special commissioner against LGTBIphobia and a joint action plan. We share this initiative, which seeks concrete results and institutional leadership to put an end to this serious social problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, there is a chance to start doing something concrete. Let us remember that only 10% of hate crimes initiate judicial proceedings. But what's going on? In recent months we have attended speeches that have encouraged contempt for this collective. There is a clear reality: the LGTBphobia is growing, like the assaults on transgender women in Gasteiz, insults in Basauri, Bilbao, Amurrio and many more. Ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right, the speeches that you are airing make it possible for facts such as the comments to take place later. You legitimize and feed them, clearly. The Raxen Report, of the Movement against Intolerance, emphasizes that the growth of attitudes of intolerance towards other people because of the fact of some differential factor is the root of the problem of polarization and extremism in Spain and Europe, which drives a totalitarian dynamic that is mutating with democratic aspects. Let us be clear that it is a structural reality rooted in our societies, which operate on the basis of a dichotomous and heteronormative sex-generic pattern. Any person who leaves that pattern is rejected, punished and discriminated against. And that happens day by day in all areas of life, in the family, in jobs, study centers, among friends, in the leisure space... That is why the impetus for transformative feminist policies is essential, and not, as you have proposed in your own amendment, to strengthen the mechanisms of action of the State Security Forces and Bodies. To more attacks and more hatred, the answer cannot be more police, but more pedagogy, more education and more values. The compromise that has been raised is also considered insufficient. In conclusion, we would like to recall that our formation will promote the necessary initiatives in our Parliaments, both in Iruña and in Gasteiz, as well as in the local entities, which will enable the development of feminist pedagogies and the recognition of the diversity of identities and desires in all social spheres, placing a special emphasis on youth environments and social networks, as well as showing a zero tolerance for these expressions against the rights of people related to their sexual reality. For all this, we will appreciate it. Milesker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u81	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal that invites us to talk about one of the most fundamental rights we have for anyone to live with dignity, which is equality, and it also allows us to see what the thermometer in this House is when we talk about combating discrimination. And I find it totally regrettable that there are still people in this House who do not recognize that there are people who live discrimination in their flesh: discrimination in access to employment, discrimination in housing, discrimination living violent attitudes. That is the reality we have in our country. It's just that anyone who lives in a normal reality, not a parallel reality - because I think there are people who live in a parallel reality - knows that we have to address it. We must address that racism that exists in our society; we must address the LGBTIphobia that exists in our society, because many people still - because they are Gypsies, because they are disabled, because they have a specific gender condition or identity or because they have any kind of difference, including ideological differences - face situations of discrimination. And that's what we can talk about when we talk about this proposal. Citizens is a party - look, our name is not casual - in which we talk about citizenship. To be part of citizenship we must exercise our rights, each and every one of us, being fundamental pillars of equality and freedom. That is why, in this House, we have an obligation to deal with diverse society, but to deal with it from the point of view of tolerance. Tolerating is not to say: I do recognize that there is LGTBphobia, but, of course, almost better than homosexuals to take them to therapy. Is that tolerating, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? Because that's what you say in more than one of your statements. Tolerating neither is that when it became known that, unfortunately, it has been simulated, immigrants are accused of it, as did their representative Ortega Smith. Be responsible for what they say, because what they say damages the diverse composition of our society. What they say has a lot of repercussions, because none of us are just any walker, we have an obligation to build and social cohesion. So, please, let's do it. But let the government do that, too. They bring us here a PNL. In the cause for equality we are seeing a noisy spectacle, because with the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act it almost seems that you - almost literally - were beaten up to see who was recording it, to see who was hanging that cause of equality. I say to you: twenty years since the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Directive and we do not have an approach for all groups. Because sometimes it seems that there is a propagandistic purpose, and what we need to be interested in is the substance of the matter. With the Trans Law the same thing has happened: to you, the PSOE bench, we have almost had to be convinced that, please, we have to address the situation of trans people and LGBT people. What do I mean? That the thermometer is at least at minus 1, because we have to be throwing many others, and on that path is Citizens, who really believes in a firm defense of the equality of all people, in the need to defend the rights of all people, and not in a propaganda way - because sometimes it seems that more than one politician is going from Tertullian to talk about this - but in a responsible way. In society there is a great weakness, which is sensitivity. Many people still see each other, for any difference, with a lot of prejudice and a lot of stereotype. And we have an obligation to have a responsible tone, not a confrontational tone, a tone to comply with European guidelines, to comply with the law, to comply with our Constitution, but, above all, with what our citizens deserve. Let's give the political size, please. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u82	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. In the face of the increase in phobias of LGBT aggression, the BNG is convinced that action must be taken in all areas, the Government must be urged to bring the equality laws, the Xunta de Galicia in our field and the public administrations as a whole to implement social awareness measures, but also to ensure that democratic political forces are prepared to fight politically and ideologically against those who sow hatred. For in this it is necessary to be clear: if the main material authors of the murder of Samuel Luiz in A Coruña are arrested, the intellectual architects who legitimize with their speech sit in this Parliament. Those who deny and banalize homophobic violence, machismo, sexual assault and ill-treatment against women, those who fuel racism, xenophobia and prejudice against the different, including those in this State who are different because they belong to peoples who have a language, culture and collective rights and do not fit into their idea of one, large and exclusive Spain. The BNG is and will always be at the forefront in the fight against fascism, now and forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u84	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u85	Thank you, President. Faced with the distortion of the words that we have heard again in this House today, there are the facts, and the facts and data tell us that Spain is a country committed to LGBT rights and whose legislation has a majority social support. Despite this, the facts also tell us that the proposals and messages launched by the extreme right and the right, sometimes in our country and its power lobbies, which want to eliminate or lower legislation, poison coexistence and encourage hate messages. The facts also tell us that in this context of hate messages aggressions have increased alarmingly. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a total emergency. We need to regain the strength and commitment to the rights that have been installed in our country and we need to eliminate the messages of hatred. That is why we will support that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u86	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Ruiz said - and to a large extent I share this - that in Western cities we live much better than in other societies where they are not lucky enough to have a rule of law that protects minority groups. The question here is: what merits are you imputed for this to be so? Because I have heard you in this House even claim that democracy does not seem entirely a good idea, with which, Mrs Ruiz, the first question is: what merits are you in all these battles, which are ultimately liberal battles, in favour of the rights, in this case, of the LGBT collective? What are the merits of you? What are the merits of you? The merit, Your Honor, is of entities, of organizations that have been working for years, even during the dictatorship, so that today it is so and some of us have a little easier life. The merit, Your Honor, is of the legislation that you have passed this and other Houses, in relation to which you have voted against and which protects and guarantees rights to citizens. The merit is of that and in no case of you, Your Honor. Despite the tolerance of our society, there are two things that are worrying. The first is an increase in aggression and the second is that, as a result, citizens are afraid. There are people in Barcelona, Madrid and Seville who are more afraid today to embrace their partner on the street than he was five years ago. That is the case, that is the case, and we must respond from the institutions to that collective. What's the answer? From our point of view, it's very clear. Firstly, we support this initiative that we are discussing here today. Secondly, precipitate the adoption of all LGTB laws and regulations that protect the collective. Thirdly, the creation of a subcommission in the Equality Commission, which we requested a few weeks ago, to examine whether hate speech in this House has direct consequences on the street. And fourthly and lastly, support the proposal that a special commissioner be set up to combat LGBTphobia, which have already presented different entities in the sector. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u88	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u89	Let the battle begin! Let the battle begin! [[Show a picture]] So he titled a VOX tweet from his official account - VOX -, with a guy, as you see, with a sword - is Aragorn. Poor Aragorn!- and with the flag of Spain against an army of feminists, journalists, self-determinants, independenceists and the LGBT collective. It was April 28, 2019. Do you think that this kind of thing can have something to do with the increase of more than 43% in aggression against the LGTB collective? Could it be? Maybe not, or maybe not. Data. In the course of the year, 748 complaints of aggression against the LGTB collective have been filed. Even worse: it is estimated that 48% of these complaints do not exist, that these attacks are not reported. Why? Out of fear. 80% of the LGTB collective is afraid to hold hands with their partner when it's dark or simply when they enter a narrower street. Ladies and gentlemen, white and heterosexual white women and women of VOX, have you ever been afraid to hold your partner's hand at night or when they walked into a narrower street? We say here today that his speech does encourage the increase and increase of aggression against the LGTB collective. You talk about assembly and false allegations. Look, if it were true - for example, in the case of Malasaña - the news is simply that instead of 748 complaints this year there are 747. But, above all, for assembly and false denunciation about Altsasu or Mrs Carmen with her fascist colleagues in Desocupa. That's a setup, and that's a false denunciation. [[Applauds]] Those who deny that in this country women are abused because they are women, those who deny in this country that immigrants are excluded because they are immigrants, those who deny in this country that the poor are exploited because they are poor are the same people who deny in this country that homosexuals are beaten because they are homosexuals, and a lie will never be able to deny that truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, this is not solved by a GNP. This is not solved with a PNL. They have the BOE every Tuesday. They have power in this country. Please, no more cynicism. From here, as legislators we are, it is not enough to make speeches, perhaps like this, perhaps as the extraordinary speech made by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Speeches against hatred are not enough, we must legislate against hatred. From here we propose a specific commissioner who emerged from the LGTB collective for the diagnosis and for the drive of policies against the hatred of these people and a warning: as we continue to do so, they pass us over. [[pointing out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] They pass us over. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ramírez Carner, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u91	We're just polishing a transactional that we'll deliver now.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u92	Okay, thank you. [[Mrs Rueda Perelló asks for the floor]] Let's see, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u93	Thank you. On the basis of Rule 71.3 of the Rules of Procedure, for allusions affecting my parliamentary group, I request, please, that the references of the representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group linking VOX with Samuel's death be withdrawn from the Diary of Sessions, as well as the statements of the representative of the BNG - I quote textually -: The intellectual architects of Samuel's murder sit here. And he pointed to our bench. These statements are both criminal and must remember that Samuel's father asked that he not be politicized. Rest in peace and, please, respect him. We ask you, please, to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions because we have nothing to do with it. In fact, an immigrant was arrested... [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u94	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think your intervention has been made clear. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Development of the 7000 million Euros of Direct Aid to Save Our Productive Fabric. [[File number 162/000778]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u95	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the release of 7 billion euros of direct aid to save our productive fabric. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u96	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today exactly one and a half years of the first decree of the state of alarm and of that crisis, which, in addition to ending the lives of 85 000 Spaniards in official figures, has brought ruin to thousands of citizens and the loss of more than 100,000 companies. It is not exactly a good symptom that my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, today has to bring a proposal to this House to urge the Government, once and for all, to decide to help SMEs and self-employed people in a useful way, who have seen that in these months the Spanish Government has not shown the slightest sensitivity to them in their ruin. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Spanish economy has been the hardest hit in the European Union, it is as a direct result that Spain has been the European country that has invested the least resources in helping families and businesses directly. Let us remember that we have made only 1.3% of our GDP available to you compared to 4.1% of our European partners. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a political decision, but let us get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, it took the Spanish Government a year to approve the first and only direct injection of resources for SMEs and self-employed people. It was a line of aid that the President of the Government announced in this rostrum that it would be 11 billion, but then, when the time came, it turned out to be only 7000. Nothing new, Sanchez's word. These are some amounts, one or the other, which are absolutely insufficient to cushion the fall in the income of businesses and self-employed people, which is more than 113 billion. They were insufficient aid that did not arrive or arrive late and that, in addition, went wrong. As early as March, my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, told them that these subsidies, in addition to excluding a large part of the sectors affected - which they had to rectify - were articulated through a procedure of concession difficult to comply with by the autonomous communities and impossible to assume by the vast majority of the potential beneficiaries. Only six months later you, Mr PSOE and Mr Gov ernment, have had to acknowledge that the procedure for granting these aid has been a major failure. In addition, I would ask you, please, to stop wasting your efforts to continue to raise doubts about the diligence and management capacity of the autonomous communities, because the fault that these 7 billion do not reach the pockets of entrepreneurs, businesses, workers and self-employed is 50% of the incompetence of the government of Pedro Sánchez and 50% of its pride. The reality is that today the autonomous communities of all political signs have barely been able to receive 10% of the requests they expected to receive the calls. For example, we quote the Basque Country, so as not to name any communities of the PP or PSOE. It is a community that manages its public resources well and that out of 35,000 potential beneficiaries has received only 4100 applications. Yesterday Vice President Calviño announced that the Council of Ministers was going to clarify the doubts of the decree. For me to understand: a decree that has already been rectified at fifteen days, must we now clarify it? And you want us to continue to believe that it is the fault of the autonomous communities? We do not miss you any more about it, gentlemen of the PSOE. If the law is to be clarified, because it is impossible to enforce, it is because the decree-law on aid was a real shambles. We reiterate today that we must take advantage of this clarification of the correction of the aid decree in order to correct its shortcomings, to make it easier, to extend the concepts eligible and to ensure that these funds reach as many or as many companies as possible. Yesterday we were given the version that they were going to clarify the doubts. The Government spokesman today held a press conference at which she announced that the decree would be amended by agreement of the Council of Ministers. But it turns out that there is not a single agreement on this from the Council of Ministers. Have we been fooled again? Is that another scumbag, another PSOE lie, another announcement of those emptinesses? The reality is they haven't done one thing or the other. They have sown more confusion, they have sown more uncertainty. Please, gentlemen of the PSOE, leave the junkyard and make decisions to get the aid to the companies. We in the self-amendment that we have tabled point the way. That self-amendment has been to make the proposal wider - and I also believe that all political groups, regardless of their ideology, can take on board perfectly - and in it we point out three points to them. First, change the decree not to exclude companies and self-employed who incurred small losses in 2019 but are viable. Secondly, take the opportunity to eliminate the exclusion of subsidies to SMEs and self-employed people who had small debts to Social Security or the Public Administration in 2020, the year of the pandemic. Finally, they do not clarify, but include in the eligible concepts - because they are not included - all fixed costs borne by SMEs and self-employed people once the pandemic has been unleashed, apart from being borne by debt or by own funds. Gentlemen of the Government, you did not listen to those six months ago who were told that the administrative procedure was inexhaustible. They are therefore six months lost. Now listen to those affected, listen to the College of Administrative Managers, which says that 25% of our companies' viability depends on these aids; that their arrogance and pride do not prevent them from saving a single one. They have two options: to unblock the process of amendments in this Congress or'rectify for real in the Council of Ministers with a new decree. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on all groups to support this GNP, which is only intended to transfer to the Government the idea that it is necessary to rectify and do so urgently in order to make this procedure of granting aid the best possible. In addition, it is an idea shared by all autonomous communities, SMEs and autonomous ones. If there is only one euro left and, as a result, an autonomous has to close the blind, that we do not feel guilty. It will actually be the fault of the president of a government unable to face a crisis that has even worsened as a result of not listening to anyone, just to himself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u98	Good afternoon. Listening to the speaker's presentation of the People's Parliamentary Group, one has the feeling that Congress is making policy about a dead elephant, an animal that no longer lives but takes many hours to fall. The People's Party is there and wants us to drag more and more into politics from there every day. What explanation is there, if not, for this non-law proposition? Because reading it is like watching a western twilight movie. They state in this explanatory statement that there are data on the impact of the major health crisis and refer to the fall in gross domestic product in 2020. You see, we are in 2021 and what Eurostat tells us is that GDP growth in the second quarter of this year in the eurozone is 2.2% and at the same time GDP growth in Spain is 2.6%. In fact, it predicts that Spain will be one of the countries that will grow the most in its gross domestic product over the year. How is it possible within that apocalyptic landscape that you paint? Well, because the social shield through the ERTE and the extraordinary benefits to self-employed and self-employed has dampened the blow. But perhaps you don't want to talk about this because that social shield depended for its validity on the six extensions of the state of alarm, on which you only voted in favour of three. So the main aid that has been offered to businesses, which is to support the incomes of the working population, has happened despite you. They have not been an allied force for the recovery of this country and that makes them so twilight. I understand that you do not want to talk about the current state of affairs, the unemployment data for the last month of August, with a historical decline of 82,583 unemployed, nor that in May 2021 the roof of the 3.3 million self-employed workers was broken. I understand that you do not want to talk about the current state of affairs, because, while recovering pre-crisis unemployment rates from the pandemic has taken us a year and a half, returning to pre-2008 employment levels cost this country a whole decade. Economic policy matters, the social shield has been economic policy and its result is totally opposed to the austerity measures that the People's Party carried out when it was in government, so not a job-generation lesson on its part. By the way, do not tell us again - although it is true that in this intervention it has not been the case - that with you women worked more, because women have been working all our lives, although another issue is that of the conditions in which this work is carried out. There your labor reform worsened and made those conditions more precarious and took dignity away from all that work, and when they asked you about the pay gap, you said that you were not going to get involved in that. But let's go back to the non-law proposition. They concern direct aid to enterprises. We're not going to be complacent. It is true that the activation of this measure was not diligent enough; in fact, in Unidad Podemos we were asking him at the beginning of the year, in January of the same year, but it is true that in the end they end up materializing through a royal decree in March 2021. However, from then until now we have organisations like Uatae that estimate that of the 7 billion could be reached 50% of the budget implemented. The People's Party does not say that part of the problem is due to the time frames, procedures and channels of public information and dissemination used by the Autonomous Communities, which manage these aids; in fact, they have the opportunity to make the CNAE more inclusive - what is necessary -. So when you speak of direct aid being blocked, he asked them: by whom? For Mrs Ayuso, who has executed 30% if any? Or by Mr López Miras, who will hopefully have executed 20%? It is all right because, although it has not been very understandable to the spokesman, the Council of Ministers said this morning that the deadline for the autonomous communities to take such action will be extended. Therefore, what you defend as a stupendous failure can be arranged by Mrs Ayuso by making use of that extension of time to bring aid to SMEs, autonomous and autonomous, who are in need of it. See where the lock is. Having said that, the moment we are now demands political courage and head, and when these two things are used, the problems of people's lives are fixed. We need to bet on this major productive fabric, which is SMEs and which is self-employed workers, so that they can take on the challenges they face now and which have to do with digitisation, the green transition, the circular economy, equality and reconciliation plans, the prevention of occupational risks and occupational health. I'm done, President. The metaphor of the world in which the People's Party is in was given to me by the writer and friend Cristina Fallarás. You're going on that dead elephant that's taking a while to fall. You know, they're terrified and they're following, and they're claiming that this country's policy is still there. But in the United Nations we know precisely that what we need is a policy that is effective, that responds to the problems that exist...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u99	Your Honor, you must finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u100	I'm done. ...and not to be lost in rhetoric, in exalting ignorance or in technical excuses. Democracy is the opposite, and that is why we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u101	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u102	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I had a pretty clear line, but I'm going to have to change it a little, because it's obvious that Mrs. Podemos's spokesperson knows a lot about poetry. It makes very good metaphors, you include very good similes and you have a very well spun speech, but your poetry - I'm very sorry - is very tetric and harmful for Spain. What you compare to the autonomous companies in Spain with a dead elephant to be dropped is absolutely grotesque. [[Mrs FernándezCastañón makes negative gestures]] Mrs Fernández Castañón, as much as Spanish companies are in a complicated and critical situation, it is essential to help them and that dead elephant you are talking about you must practice mouth-to-mouth, breathing, cardiovascular aid or whatever it takes. [[Applauds]] We need to help our productive fabric to continue to pay the funds that keep it to you and us and that pay the subsidies for your bable literature, among other issues. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group makes a great deal of sense. Indeed, it is very necessary to unlock these 7 billion aid, it is essential to boost them and allow the Spanish self-employed and entrepreneurs to access them, but we are in a situation. Gentlemen of the People's Party, we notice that you see the straw in the eye of others and do not see the beam in itself. I mean that you in the autonomous communities in which you govern, using the legislative power you have in them, could approve similar aid and start supplying this. In fact, they did, but only intended for very specific issues that I will go into in detail below. To begin with, one issue that is not highlighted in the non-legislative proposal and which we have pointed out in our amendments is that the economy has not been destroyed by the mere effect of the pandemic. The virus is not the one that has destroyed the productive sector. The production sector has been destroyed by the absurd coercive measures imposed by the autonomous and national governments: the perimeter closures, the hourly restrictions on catering and hospitality, the limits of people, the limits of activity, etc. Those are the issues that have destroyed our productive sector. And these restrictive measures, these perimeter closures and these time restrictions, have also been imposed by the People's Party in the Community of Castile and León and in Andalusia. So, gentlemen of the People's Party, it would be a pleasure for those who preach where they don't rule to apply it where they do so that they can help some of those companies that are at least within their sphere of responsibility. [[Applauds]] It is also true - this makes it very clear from the GNP and we have identified it with some questions - that the measures that the Socialist Party has taken have proved to be absolutely inadequate. The spokesman for Podemos knows a lot about poetry - it is true and I recognize it - but it is clear that of economy she has no idea, although this is not reprehensible to the extent that you do not have education in economy. It is logical and normal, but what is not logical and normal is that you come here and intervene with such pride, as if you knew something, when in fact you have shown that you have not understood absolutely anything about how all economic aid systems work. First, the ERTEs that you have so much talked about only allow companies to save - in quotes - the wage cost of employees, but they have to continue paying all contributions to Social Security. That's a lot of money that has been withdrawn in some communities. Secondly, the ICO credits you were also talking about are a trap for companies. They have been given liquidity for a while, but now it is time to reimburse these credits, a time when the Government continues to focus on the activities of companies, which are unable to generate enough revenue to return them. I mean, it's been bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Finally, the aid lines for payment to suppliers have also been absolutely absurd, because they require companies to have uglies with their suppliers. Only those companies that have incurred defaults can access the credit lines, i.e. those companies that have already broken down are the only ones that could access the aid. Companies that still operate and have their accounts closed with their suppliers cannot access these aids. I mean, we have a completely absurd system and aid again. Therefore, we need the government to unlock these aid - more so, to expand it - and, please, all the governments - national and autonomous, gentlemen of the People's Party - to allow companies to return to normal activity. Closures and restrictions make no sense when it has already been seen that the pandemic and its contagion are controlled and, even more so, that the hospital emergency no longer exists. Therefore, they allow companies to work. Help, all right. We need work. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u103	Thank you. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs Fernández Castañón asks for the floor.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u104	Thank you, President. On the basis of Article 71 of the Regulation, by reference to allusions, it intervenes only to explain the use of a metaphor to make it clear. I was referring to the policies of the People's Party with the image of a dead elephant, not the situation that our autonomouss and SMEs are experiencing. And I would recommend a well-known phrase, which is that we have two ears and a mouth to hear twice as much of what we speak, either in Spanish or in Asturian language. [[rumors]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u105	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u106	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mr Castellón, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, said that today is a year and a half since the beginning of the first decree of the state of alarm. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, it has been a year and a half since the main political party of the opposition in this House demonstrated its irresponsibility to this country. He also says that the historical decline in GDP is due to government action. No, Your Honor, they still don't know anything. Or have you not heard that we live in a global pandemic that explains those figures that have happened here and in all the countries of Europe? In fact, today they have again demonstrated this in the statement of reasons for their non-legislative proposal. They say things like that Spain is the country that suffered the biggest economic crisis or the biggest job destruction. They could have replaced that explanatory statement with the phrase of the International Monetary Fund, which says that Spain will be the country of the European Union that grows the most in 2021 or 2022. They also say that more than 100,000 companies were shut down, that 700,000 jobs were destroyed or that there were 750,000 people at ERTE at the end of the year. They could have said, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain recovers nine out of ten jobs destroyed during the pandemic, that the historical fall of unemployment recorded in August is the largest in the historical series, or that we have been increasing the number of members of Social Security for six consecutive months. By the way, you say all this when you are also the authors of that already famous phrase that the ERTE of today will be the ERE of tomorrow. Remember? Well, today the reality has once again denied them, and today there are only 200 000 people left of the more than 3.5 million workers who came to ERTE in this country. But they also dare to say all this when in the previous economic crisis it took twelve years to recover pre-crisis employment and, in this crisis, we now have practically the same levels of employment as before the pandemic. Finally, they also say in their GNP that this government has focused only on ICOs and ERTEs. Only, they say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when they are policies that have helped save millions of jobs and thousands of businesses and are an example throughout Europe. But it is also not true, because it is not true that we have only dedicated ourselves to ERTE or ICOs. They forget the termination benefit for the self-employed, the solvency fund for strategic enterprises; they forget the postponement of taxes, the moratoriums, the social shield or even the expansion of new rights and policies, such as minimum living income or the development of the State's most social budgets in history. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, all this in the worst moment of our lives with the greatest health crisis. The reality is that they don't care or care about anything, and all they want is to attack and wear down the government. We have seen it again this week with the recovery plan and with the words of Married. All they want is to wear down the government and, in fact, what they are doing is to wear down Spain and the future of the Spaniards. I would even tell you that you do not realize that you are opposing yourselves. Because, he asked them: if the reactivation plan is going to be a failure as they say, if what the government has proposed is a nini plan, if there will only be millions of poor people with new windows and electric cars, as Casado says, how do they explain that the European Commission has said that Spain's plan is outstanding and one of the best in Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] The Economic Vice-President of the Government will continue to take action. We demonstrated this same morning, adapting again the Royal Decree-Law on direct aid, making it more flexible to reach as many companies as possible and throughout the country. We will continue to work in that direction to have the best possible way, as we also did with the previous modification in Royal Decree-Law 6. I do not want to end without a little reflection, as the President of this House, President Batet, invited us yesterday: let us take advantage of this new session, the fourth of this legislature, so that we can agree with the logical political discrepancy, so that we can agree for the good of this country and for the good of the Spaniards, as the Socialist Party will continue to do throughout this legislature, first with Adriana Lastra, pride of this party, and now with our new spokesman, Héctor Gómez. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u107	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It would be useful if, when we come up to this rostrum, we do so with at least a little respect and decency in taking into account the suffering that tens of thousands of autonomous people have been through in our country throughout this crisis that has affected us. Of course, speeches like the one we have heard here from the Socialist Party, but especially from the spokesman for Podemos, are far from the reality that is happening in Spain. You were talking about this PNL being a western movie. Look, what is a film, but of terror, is the situation that the autonomous people of our country have gone through and it is unacceptable for you to come and wear a medal saying that the Spanish economy is going to grow by 2.2% in 2021. By the way, you attribute that merit and then you do not attribute the demerit that our economy fell last year 11 points, the biggest fall in 85 years, the worst country in the European Union in any parameter that we can compare. And now they say that we are going to be the fastest growing country in the European Union. But how are we not going to be the fastest growing country in the European Union if we hit an 11-point bat last year? Well, I'd just miss it! I remind you that when the economic vice president came here she told us that this economic crisis was going to be in the form of a V and that we had not yet come down when we were already taking off. The truth is that we are still on the L stick, at the bottom, and we don't know how long that stick is going to last because there are many autonomous and many small businesses in our country that still can't lift their heads. And what is also true is that the decree is a stubble, and as such a stubble is a failure. But you are going to fix it this morning and ATA's president has come out to tell you that they are still leaving tens of thousands of self-employed people who do not serve this aid at all. And it was you who weren't going to leave anyone behind! This government isn't that it goes one step behind people, it's that it goes to a pilgrimage behind. You are completely removed from what is happening in our country and I set you the example of our community, from Navarre. Navarra had 67.7 million to give these aid; 12 500 self-employed people were expected to benefit from them. Do you know how many had requested them by the end of August? Just 1735, almost 10% of those who could do so. These aids are not reaching anyone because their conditions are Leonine, because they are designed to make headlines, because you are dedicated to announcing millions, but those millions cannot be distributed and are not serving to solve the problems that the autonomous are having. The self-governing are finding that, instead of a Government serving as a springboard for them to push themselves at a time of need, that Government is becoming a wall they clash with, because there is no way that they can be helped. There is nothing but smoke ads, confetti, but the reality of our country is that we have been the country that has fallen the most. Businesses and self-employed people can no longer suffer. If we compare ourselves in terms of unemployment, if we compare ourselves in terms of economic matters with any country in Europe, in the parameter we want, all we see is the incompetence of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u109	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u110	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today we are discussing a GNP on direct aid, a decree regulating such aid, in which my group, of course, abstained because it was neither consensual nor negotiated, nor with the political parties, nor much less with the autonomous communities, which were the ones who had to implement the provisions of that decree. A decree that does not adapt to the reality of the business fabric of the territories, as has already been shown, and also a decree that had to be amended as a result. Moreover, in the case of Euskadi, it did not take into account the rules governing taxation and had also had to be clarified by means of a ministerial order. And the time frame for implementation for many autonomous communities was virtually unfulfilled or difficult to meet. It seemed that the Government was going to extend this deadline for what was said in the press, but today we have seen in the Council of Ministers that this has not been the case. A decree that groups request to be treated as a bill to bring it into line with economic reality, to reformulate deadlines and also to reformulate, adapt or change the conditions or requirements for access to aid. Today we have, once again, an extension of the deadline for amendments and for more inri, with no one, neither with political groups nor with the autonomous communities, this decree is being re-amended nothing less than for the third time, without dialogue or consensus. And the truth, from what we have seen in the press release, seems to clarify something by also introducing the concept of accounting losses, but we will have to read the fine line. The decree is not to clarify, but again to modify and - I say again - to have no one. I think this is not serious because in the end we are witnessing: I regulate in a way and if I see that it doesn't work, he modified it, also at the discretion of the government, without anyone, to see if I get more beneficiaries or that I don't think it helps SMEs and self-employed people. This is not to the detriment of the political groups or the autonomous communities, this is to the detriment of the companies themselves, the SMEs, the self-employed, especially in the services and hospitality sector, because it generates them, first, optimism; then, frustration and with a little luck, if something is changed or there is some change, perhaps I have the possibility again to be a beneficiary. Mrs Castañón, you have blamed the autonomous communities, if I am not mistaken, for their delay and for not being able to give the aid for administrative problems. And this is not true. In the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the whole administrative framework was prepared simply because we had already granted aid. And the problem is not that, the problem is the requirements and conditions that companies cannot meet. In fact, out of 35,000 potential beneficiaries, only 4000 have been requested. And you know why? Because the conditions are not the right ones, because many companies are businesses that have cash payments, basically, and have pulled their savings for what? To be able to pay those suppliers. That's the main problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why have you amended yourselves? Because, if there were no self-amendment, of course, we would have supported GNP, because GNP was much more generic and because it allowed us to extend the deadline and make changes in terms of the requirements in line with the economic reality of each territory. It only called for policy changes and all the necessary steps to unlock that 7 billion. And this meant processing the decree as a bill and being able to make all our contributions there. But, now, you urge the Government to introduce into the decree certain very specific conditions, that what you can do is to impose the conditions that must be met by the beneficiary individuals and companies, as the Government does, without taking into account that reality of each autonomous community. Moreover, even with some conditions that are quite difficult to meet. For example, include viable companies that will close 2019 with insignificant losses or the result of some extraordinary expense that in no case compromises the viability of the company. I would like to know how to analyse the long-term viability of a company with all the guarantees and, if it has also closed, what is the direct aid for? Are you gonna reopen with that money they're gonna give you? I doubt it. As regards the inclusion of companies that have had difficulty in meeting their debts to the Administration or Social Security, we have not just understood this, because in the case of administrations, for example, they can grant extraordinary interest-free postponements, as we have done in Euskadi, and in the case of Social Security there are also a number of postponements. We say this again: the granting of direct aid should have been resolved a long time ago, because we cannot afford to be the great losers who cannot apply for or access such aid. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, who are in the government, speak and dialogue more before bringing the decrees and do not delay the deadline for making amendments than the only thing they are pursuing, in this case, is for aid to reach the greatest number of companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u111	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-An employee of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, another day I rise to this rostrum with disquiet; I am almost certain that they share and feel millions of Spaniards. I wish I had been wrong when in March, in this very rostrum, I pointed out the defects of Royal Decree-Law 5/2021, of direct aid, which Mr Sánchez, back in February, called urgent for our businesses, self-employed and SMEs. And here we are today, six months later, proving that, unfortunately, we were right. At the time we told them that the requirements, that the small letter of the decree was going to leave out the aid to thousands of businesses and self-employed people who needed it, and so it has been. We also told them that these requirements, combined with established bureaucratic procedures, were untenable for the small business, and so it has been. We also warned them that delegating management to the autonomous communities would only slow down the arrival of aid and will further deepen the inequality between territories, and so it has been. Six months later, we've got half of that 7 billion still ungranted, while thousands of SMEs and self-governing people are with the water around their necks, if they haven't had to close their business yet. Today, mid-September, we are again debating the aid measures that were adopted with irresponsible delay and that do not even reach their recipients. An essential measure that Citizens, my parliamentary group, demanded of them already in the negotiation of the budgets last autumn. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you know that the measure has been a failure, and you know it because you have done some maneuvers to try to fix it, but I tell you that, in the end, those small patches, those small patches that put to your own measure, just made the situation worse. In July, the Ministry of Economic Affairs shared a sort of interpretative note in which it intended to give more flexibility by applying a criterion that was not present in the actual decree-law in force. Totally, as the autonomous communities had to apply and not the ministry, it gave them the same as they could incur an illegality. Today, the Council of Ministers is once again trying to fix this misconception by taking new measures to ensure that they reach their destination as soon as possible. This Government has become so accustomed to the order and command and to the bringing them up on the basis of royal decree-law that it must be thought that its word, its royal decrees, are already equivalent to the law itself. And I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that is not how our democratic system of law works. I again denounce here, from this rostrum, that you continue to block the processing as a draft law of the decrees we validate in this House and also that of direct aid. You have Parliament kidnapped, not letting it do its job. They prevent the parliamentary groups from doing our job of negotiating and improving the rules and condemn the Spanish to suffer harmful consequences for their improvisation. But, in case we did not have enough with the Government, this proposal from the People's Group comes, which until this very morning was the absolute nothingness. I was going to read it, but I don't want to highlight them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. Thankfully you have had your eye, or perhaps the miracle has been done, and what was the initial GNP recorded this morning has suffered, in the discount time, a self-amendment which, as has already been said here, is assessed and does not allow for any debate or improvement. It is all so sluggish and so harsh the behavior of bipartisanism that he once again certified that the project of my parliamentary group, the Citizens' project, is now more necessary than ever to tell bipartisanism that it is already well. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, as well as you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, must let us do a job, a serious job: debate, the search for agreements, each in our position, because the Spanish have wanted it. And to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, both the Socialist Group and the United Group of the European People's Party, I demand that we not normalize the abduction of the legislative power that this government is doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u113	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact is that the aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons was a fiasco to the extent that most of the fund still does not reach its recipients. In the case of Galicia only 82 million out of 234, and that is not good news. The BNG then pointed out the incongruity of allocating aid exclusively to pay debts and not to compensate for losses, as would be logical, or which were directed only to indebtedness, but not to those who had losses that with effort and deprivation were able to resolve otherwise. We also criticise criteria of distribution which clearly harm Galicia, or which exclude certain activities according to the CNAE, which was finally corrected. Now, the main problem to be solved is that most of these funds do not go to companies that need them because of bureaucratic issues, which would be absolutely unjustifiable. We have seen the Government's willingness to make the criteria more flexible, and we agree with the proponents on the need to act, but we also want to point out the contradictions of the People's Party, because in the case of Galicia, the government of Feijóo, if for something, it was not precisely because it was exemplary in the aid. On the contrary, it was criticized by the sector itself for considering them insufficient, for delays in processing and charging, or, for example, for excluding companies claiming debts to the public administration when, at times, that was not even true. So in this, as in life, it is good to preach, but it is even better to give wheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u116	Thank you, President. Almost a year ago, and almost coinciding with the parliamentary handling of budgets, from the Democratic Party we called for a fund to help small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people. At that time the vice president told us that no, that it was not necessary; that there were already the ERTE and the ICOs, and that with that it was solved. Subsequently, at the beginning of February, the President of the Government rose to this rostrum and announced to us 7 billion for the fund that we had claimed and that they told us that it was not necessary. I myself went up to this rostrum and said I agreed, but we wanted to see the small letter. Within a few weeks I contact the ministry to offer our help and they tell us: don't worry, we are working with a royal decree. They draw Royal Decree-Law 5/2021 without any kind of agreement with any of the parliamentary groups, and that Royal Decree had some important difficulties. We warned them of three, I warned them of three. One was that a comparative aggravation occurred between different autonomous communities that had maintained different criteria of closure and allocation to economic activities. They told me not to worry, that this wasn't like that. We gave them a second warning: you can't veto access to aid for those companies that submitted losses in 2019, except Thomas Cook and some more. It is a serious mistake because not all those who had losses in 2019 are zombie companies and can be viable. And the third warning: those who had paid their debts to their suppliers could not receive aid. Regarding the first, within a few weeks they rectified with a new royal decree-law and allowed the autonomous communities to add CNAE, but with respect to the other two did not make any healing. Now, when they have seen that, in fact, many small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people have been deprived of access to these aids, they say they will rectify, and I fear they will do wrong again. Listen to parliamentary groups who have some experience when we talk about self-government and when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm going to explain to you a real situation this summer. A person comes to see me who has with his family a small anonymous society, and he says to me: Ferrán, they tell me I can't access the help. And you know why I can't access help? Because in the midst of a crisis, I went to my family and asked them to make a contribution to society from their savings in order to be able to pay workers and suppliers. How they made this effort, they are prevented from accessing aid, while those who did not pay, those who did not make this effort, are now rewarded with aid. They have to rectify, they have to.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u117	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u118	We do not share the proposal of the People's Group. We do not share it with this esteemed situation of the amendment, and we are therefore going to abstain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u119	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Castellón Rubio, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u120	We prefer the vote on the self-amendment that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u121	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u122	We then proceed to discuss the motion following urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the solution that the Government is going to give to the situation of law fraud due to the abuse of time by public employees both in the Canary Islands and in the rest of the State. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country - seventy thousand in the Canary Islands - have been suffering from seven, eight, ten, fifteen or twenty years of injustice, an abuse of temporality that involves a fraud of law. What we have applied, inspected and demanded of the private labour market has not been applied by the public administrations. We're talking about nurses, cellists, technicians, employment service assistants, hospitals, dependencies, social services, school canteens and education. We are talking about many people, most of them women, who are in many cases fifty or sixty years old - most of them women, as I said - and who are going to be forced to apply for an OPE in order to keep their jobs. Neither we nor they are asking to be made officials, but to be given stability in their jobs until their retirement, integrating with an extraordinary stability plan with the condition of 'extinguishing', a law of final point, and ensuring by law that these situations do not occur again. If this Government continues with its opposition plans, they will make the largest ERE in history to people who in the year of the pandemic and the VOCID have stood firm in all services in the municipalities, in the autonomous communities and in the State. On 26 May I asked Mr Iceta a question. I do not know if they will remember that I asked him if he would stop in the Canary Islands the agreement reached by the government and the trade unions. He said it would certainly be the same for all of Spain and that my proposals were simplistic. Later, on June 23, I made the inquiry and, before my proposals, he told me that ignorance is bold and called me ignorant. It's in the Journal of Sessions. Well, finally, after these interventions, the Government presents the law and, as it was not going to be able to get it out in this Chamber, in the Congress of Deputies, at the last moment of an ignorant minister, according to Iceta, a proposal simplifies, according to Iceta, the proposal of Esquerra-we have to recognize it - if it were from ten years old - I do not know why ten and not seven; we propose from three - and the possibility that the communities and the municipalities could decide in certain cases, evaluating the positions, that it was done by competition and not by OPE. I take my hat off to Esquerra. The Minister's ignorant simplistic, at the last moment, said what the Canary Coalition and this deputy put forward. That is why today he tabled this motion, which I summarises, for the Congress of Deputies to urge the Government of Spain to arbitrate the legislative mechanisms and the appropriate organizational measures as a guarantee and minimum condition to give an exceptional solution to the abuse of temporality in public administrations in accordance with the directive of the European Commission and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice in the following terms. First, to recognize staff in the service of non- fixed, temporary, indefinite, statutory and temporary public administrations who are in a situation of abuse of temporality because they have been performing structural functions, for an uninterrupted period of at least three years, the right to have access to the permanence of their employment relationship with each administration, recognizing their right, as an individualized legal situation, to remain on an exceptional basis in the position or position they currently occupy with the same rights and subject to the same stability regime which governs, as the case may be, for career, statutory or equivalent fixed employment staff. Second, to order ex officio an administrative regularization procedure, within a maximum of three months, consisting in the incorporation into the employment relations or the organizational staff of each of the public administrations, as appropriate, of an identification of the posts or places and persons considered permanent under the preceding subparagraph. Third, to order the inventory of places and persons in abuse of temporality so that within fifteen days an inventory of places and persons occupying them over three years contracted by the Administration is made and published for each of the public administrations either in a continuous manner or in a concatenation of contracts, such as some with a hundred and fifty contracts. Fourthly, to order the exclusion of places affected by the abuse of the temporary nature of all public offers of employment, OPE, whether already called or to be called in the future, until a penalty is imposed on the Administration in accordance with Directive 1999/70 of the European Commission and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has established as a solution a fixed declaration for the workers concerned. Fifthly, order the suspension of all public offers of employment that articulate processes of stabilization of temporary employment or consolidation as they do not sanction abuse. Sixthly, do not paralyse agreements that, as in the case of the Canary Islands, can be reached between any of the public administrations and the trade union representation aimed at obtaining the permanence of the non-fixed, interim, indefinite, statutory and temporary staff who are in a situation of abuse of temporality. Seventh, reform the Royal Legislative Decree of 30 October, approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of the Public Employee, creating the category of'stabilized personnel', granting it the status of fixed personnel to extinguish in order to give an exceptional solution to situations of abuse of temporality. And eighth and last, in line with all of the above, the Spanish Government is urged to reform the Royal Legislative Decree approving the text of the Basic Staff Regulations, incorporating a new transitional provision in the terms I said earlier. [[The lady]] I conclude by saying that this is a matter of political will and intent. There's the law now. I am very grateful for the Esquerra amendment, which I would have shared 100 percent if we were deciding today. But I believe that today we must portray everyone in every aspect, and for that I will not accept the amendment, so that we can vote - and I say this to all the speakers - on each of the points separately. I know it's a political motion, that we have the law...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u124	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u125	... But I believe that today we must show the political will to get to the law where one verbally commits. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments tabled by the Republican Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the last item on the agenda. I'll try to be brief. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Oramas for her comments on what we have achieved with our pact, and secondly, I would like to say that our amendments fall because we fully understand the will in the political aspect that each of the groups has to be portrayed on each of the points. In addition, our amendments basically referred to a temporary issue, i.e. we believed - in fact, we know - that it was impossible for our administration, for example, to give way to those demands in fifteen days, but we are also aware that it must be done and that is why we set a period of time that we considered reasonable. In any case, it has not been accepted. What Mrs Oramas raises is an interesting debate. You know that we are committed, in part of the pact, to dealing urgently and quickly with the amendment of the royal decree-law. They also know that part of the agreement started from those three points already reported, which are modifiable because they were only the beginning of the change of position to process and then modify the bill through negotiation, and that's what we're going to do. Therefore, there is no disagreement between what we raised in your day here regarding the validation of the royal decree-law and what I am going to say today. There are two ways of achieving our political solution: through Article 61.6, restricted merit competition, whose use depends on whether this House wants it, because the Constitutional Court has said that it is absolutely legal; or through the fijeza to extinguish, which is what the motion of the Canary Coalition raises. In any case, this is a part of the negotiation, one of the elements that we will keep in mind in the negotiation of the bill. Mrs Oramas' motion serves me today to say to the Government: please read European jurisprudence; please listen to the multitude of groups, which we are the majority, that we are telling you that politically we are about to give stability to people, not to squares, because we are talking about groups that are going to become vulnerable by our action, and we already have enough people who have no work and who are at a time of their life when employability is very low. For the unwillingness of the administrations at the time of calling the OPEs they were playing, for the reluctance to give stability rates that would allow the administrations to work properly with their staff, for the austerity policies that you say you do not share, for these reasons we are going to leave between three hundred and eight hundred thousand people on the street after years and years that constitute abuse and fraud of law? Are we going to do this, Socialist Government and United We Can? Aren't we going to do it? Tell me that the trust we placed in them at the time for the validation of the royal decree-law was well-founded. Tell me you are not going to paralyse a possible, plausible, legal and just solution because you are afraid of legal uncertainty, according to you. Do you really believe that before the Constitutional Court, which has shaken them the state of alarm, five to six, they must have legal insecurity as an element of deprivation of rights? What I am asking you to do is to back off, and I am asking you to be aware of the effort that is to back off and say that Iceta's team was wrong and did not agree with anyone in this House, and also to talk to the social agents, who are gradually sharing our positions. Do it. Let us make legislation that for once does not make citizens pay for the abuse we have committed by the administrations, all the administrations, throughout the State and in all possible ways. In the end, it depends on this Legislature. Let's rise to it for once. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u129	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it briefly. Our group's position on this motion, as I have already said, will be to abstain for a number of reasons. First of all, this motion is based on an interpellation that by parliamentary rhythms has arrived when a decree-law, a validation debate, had crossed between the interpellation and the motion, and we are in the process of amending the processing of the decree-law as a bill. We believe, then, that the discussions on the alternatives raised in the Decree-Law should be discussed and formulated through amendments to the bill and then discussed in a paper, in the Commission and in plenary, where appropriate. Secondly, a consideration of what we believe should be politics: we do not share with Mrs Oramas that politics consists of forcing the political adversary to recant. We believe that politics in a plural society consists in dialogue and in trying to reach agreements. The objective cannot be as a criterion to force the opponent to portray himself with a position that implies a closed approach. Finally, I would like to recall in this regard and in this line the words or considerations of a German jurist who defined in plural societies the laws as bisectors of conflicting interests, and in this case I believe that more than ever for all the interests and gravity of the matter we are dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that if we stick to the text of the motion from a procedural or parliamentary point of view, it is clear that it is out of time, but it is not because of Mrs Oramas, but because the Government, once again, has wanted to give up on the fast track and, above all, on the very serious issue of interim staff. That is why it is not out of time politically, because this matter is still on the table and we have before us the handling of the initiative with a bill. And I think that is really the subject of this motion, and the proposals that will be made are what matters this afternoon. We will logically support this motion because it has such basic things - which we also propose and have repeated many times - as it is the realization of a map of fraud, but we will support it above all because it is a matter of justice. And I am already making progress here on what my group is going to defend in that process of the bill. Firstly - and I think we will agree on that, and the proposer, Mrs Oramas, and also the Member of the Commission, Mrs Esquerra, have said this - a system must be put in place to ensure that all public employees in an abusive situation are guaranteed their jobs without unfair discrimination on account of the time - this is important - they are being abused. They should not be left without work because of an abnormal and illegal functioning of the Administration which is solely the responsibility of the Administration. And this affects all those who have been in it for more than three years. We are therefore going to propose that the solutions already mentioned here, based on Article 61.6 of the EBEP, be implemented, such as the restricted competition for merits, especially for those who take longer, and a solution such as that proposed by Mrs Oramas, of the individualised legal situation to ensure stability for these people. We also propose a system whereby, from now on, the situation of interinity will not be prolonged in any case - I repeat, in no case - beyond three years and if, under any circumstances - which can go through the complexity of the Administration - the case occurs, the employee who ceases thereafter will be entitled to compensation on the same terms as a contract of employment: 33 days of salary per year with a maximum of 24 months, and if, at the age of four years, his situation of abuse has not yet been resolved, the employee will have to cease automatically with that right and with a compensation of cessation. But the really important thing - and what this is all about - is that no one responds to the abuse, no one takes care of the abuse. That is the real problem that has created this situation in which hundreds of thousands of families find themselves, and what we are going to propose from now on is that the compensation that this worker should receive for having been in an abuse situation be liable to be demanded of those responsible in an accounting accountability process; the mayor or head of an administration that incurs this fraud must answer with his assets for the damage suffered by the administration. I also wanted to tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen, which has nothing to do with the interims, but with the Public Service, and it is something bloody, bloodier if it fits and what is happening today, and it is that hundreds of thousands of public employees can be seen on the street by the boulders of this Government and of the previous ones, which has also allowed this situation. We will put forward the abolition of the privileges of politicians in the Public Service and end the scandalous level 33, which allows those who have been deputies, senators, mayors and other positions to return to their jobs with complements equivalent to those of a director general for life while hundreds of interim families can stay on the street precisely because of the consequences of the mismanagement of many of these politicians, who will take a complement for having been here two years and will have it until their retirement. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] It makes no sense for anyone who has been a deputy, senator or mayor to cover more when they return to their official work. It is scandalous and some courts have already said so. No other worker receives that privilege, which is a privilege that politicians self-give to themselves. Let us see - and this is important, Mr Legarda - what each political party says. It is important to retract and see if there is a real awareness of public service protection or it is only about protecting the prebenda of some politicians who do not want to say goodbye to them while hundreds of thousands of people are on the street. Why is it that someone who has been a deputy, senator, mayor or president of a deputy has the right to charge more for doing the same job as a fellow official when he returns to dedication? What is the reason for this privilege, which is not available to the rest of the workers who take up public office in order to serve their country as well? We must protect the hundreds of thousands of families of the temporary workers...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u132	Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u133	...and also end the unjustified privileges of politicians in the Public Service, and that we will defend in this process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u135	Thank you, Madam President. The Government announced three lines of action for the reduction of the high rate of temporaryity in public employment: the modification of EBEP, the relaxation of the replacement rate and the approach to a stabilization process. However, in the decree validated in this Congress only one of the reforms was addressed: The modification of the EBEP which, as we warn, alone cannot solve the problem. Nor was an exceptional solution to the question of cumulative temporality incorporated into the text, relying on genuine processes of job consolidation respecting territorial or sectoral areas of negotiation and taking into account specificities. We did not agree with the decree, in fact, we voted against it, and it is now being dealt with as a bill, so we hope that there will be a will for it to be modified in a positive way, for which the BNG will present amendments. In any case, for the Galego Nationalist Block, one of the keys to solving the problem is the elimination of the troop replacement rate, and we therefore urge the government parties to take it fully into consideration in the next General State Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u136	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u137	Thank you, President. Beyond the procedural moment when we will have to vote on this motion, I would say that we are going to vote favourably as a touch of attention to the Government and its parliamentary partners in the handling of this whole legislative bill. They came here with a royal decree-law that, for a change, they had not agreed with any parliamentary group. At the last minute, of penaltyti and spraying the leash, thanks to an oral or written agreement, I do not know, with some parliamentary group, you approved it and validated it. The agreement set out what should be dealt with urgently. If I remember correctly, it's been six or seven weeks. A solution was set for those interims who had been in the Administration for more than ten years, but it seems that there was a small letter and you can leave out a lot of interims. Therefore, we express our absolute disagreement with the royal decree, with the processing and with the approval. You did the proper parliamentary arithmetic, you approved it, you validated it, and now, as with other royal decrees-laws, you are reassured that you have a royal decree that is already in force, that even if the days pass it continues in force, and if it is delayed, as with other royal decrees-laws, the processing of the bill, obviously the Government is in the position in which it wanted to be. The rest of the parliamentary groups should not allow this, at least those we did not agree with. Therefore, in the face of motions of these characteristics, beyond the procedural moment, as I have said, and that we may disagree in some respects, we are going to vote in favour. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group and lastly, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u139	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an outdated, outdated motion. The question is no longer to respond to the law fraud caused by the abuse of the temporary hiring of public workers, but also. The issue is another fraud, the current decree-law unfortunately validated last July in this House. I would like to recall that the parties of the Government and those who supported him did not approve that the ten-year-olds will obtain the square without opposing, no. This is what some sold and what the media spread, a totally false version of what really happened. There's none of this. What is in force today, contrary to what we voted for Junts per Catalunya, is the decree-law as it came out of the Council of Ministers. Against trade union demands and against European law and the case law of the ECJ, the decree-law adopted not only does not sanction fraud, but also involves a lamination of the rights and job stability of hundreds of thousands of public workers, especially in very feminized areas such as education, health or social services, who are now exposed to being expelled from their jobs, right now, under current law. Here's what's there. Some volunteers for stability in exchange for nothing gave for good promises of the Government that we have not seen written anywhere, that we do not know, and we already know what happens to the promises of this Government, that are not fulfilled. This seems to me to have been understood today by the representative of one of the groups who supported validation. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, what we are voting on now is not very important, but, although it is a mere symbolic act of support for the demands for stability and stability of public workers, we are positive about the substance of the initiative and in line with the negative vote that we have already given against the validation of the decree-law, we are going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Pagès. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u141	Thank you, Madam President. We're going to abstain. We will abstain for the reasons that have already been given, for example, by the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, because we understand that the framework for debate on this subject is currently being dealt with as a draft law of Royal Decree 14/2021, which was validated in this House and that, therefore, this is where the different groups have to present their amendments and their proposals for amendment and improvement to the text that is currently adopted. We, during the processing of the royal decree, have already expressed our doubts about the content and have done so on the basis that we understood that the abuse committed with temporary staff in a situation of law fraud was not sufficiently corrected and that, therefore, it was necessary to look for some mechanisms that would make the response given by the administrations to that abuse not to commit an even greater injustice, that is to say to lose their job, in many cases, as has been said, in a situation of vulnerability and in many cases, because they are people over 52 years of age, even if they have to become directly dependent on a State subsidy. We tried to negotiate a number of improvements that the minister in her presentation confirmed would be incorporated. For example, if it is required to submit to a competition-opposition, ensure that the opposition phase is not eliminatory, while we understand that in this way the experience that this staff has accumulated will count yes or yes throughout that process. On the other hand, the announcement made regarding the incorporation of the ten-year track that was negotiated at the last moment with the Republican Left Group. We, of course, share that path. However, as has already been said here, after that day we have had meetings with groups of people affected by this problem, we have had meetings with some of the signing unions, we have had meetings with university professors, with lawyers working on the subject and there is unanimity that the ten-year criterion is completely arbitrary and is not understood. And not only that, but it can affect the famous legal security that is so much talked about. Why ten years and not nine or eleven? We are told that we must try to provide legal certainty to that criterion, and that legal certainty comes from recognition where the ruling of the Supreme Court itself already sets the situation of abuse, which, as has been said, is three years. Therefore, we understand that if this criterion is applied it is, for example, through the use of Article 61.6 of the EBEP, and it is done by marking the criterion of three years and not leaving an arbitrary criterion as it is ten years. On the other hand, there is one thing that has also attracted our attention, and I believe that we all know that a partial transposition of a European directive is being carried out here. In other words, the judgments of the ECJ have told us that the Spanish legislation did not comply sufficiently with European Directive 1999/70 and there is an infringement procedure open to see whether it complies with the fifth clause of the framework agreement contained in that Directive. However, we do not understand why the text of the Royal Decree-Law does not recognise that the transposition of this directive is being carried out. We believe that this is a fact that is not minor. It is no less so that some of the measures could be used to solve this problem. For example, what is raised in this motion on the conversion into fixed extinguishing or the actual use of EBEP 61.6 requires exceptionality, and that exceptionality must be linked to a situation that is unique and unrepeatable. That is, for example, the fact that a directive is transposed. We therefore understand that if it is recognized that this transposition is taking place, it would be easier to carry out some of the solutions that are being proposed and it would be easier for as many of these people as possible not to lose their jobs and to guarantee their stability. Finally, there is the issue of compensation, which has already been discussed. Indeed, we believe, and we said it at the time, that the compensation that arises, both in the future and for the people who have already been affected by this problem, is not enough and that, at the very least, it would have to be equated with that of wrongful dismissal. Furthermore, we understand that it should not be limited to that alone. That is to say, 33 days a year worked, 24 monthly maximums, but the door could also be left open to claims for other compensation, for example, for damage suffered by a person who has been working for ten or twelve years at a job, who has not come out of opposition and has not been able to come forward, and has not been able to apply for a mortgage or have been able to do a number of things. They are cases for which he could go to a court and sue, and if the judge, the court, who is responsible for some compensation, can also do so. We therefore believe that there is still room to negotiate and improve the decree. We're gonna be on it. We will wait for the agreements to come into force, and we also hope that the agreements will go further and be better than those already announced. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Honrubia. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Oramas, you are presenting a motion today urging the Government of Spain to adopt legislative mechanisms to provide a solution to the abuse of time in public administrations. We understand, Mrs Oramas, that this is a completely out of time initiative because the government has already legislated on this matter more than two months ago. This is an initiative without any parliamentary usefulness, a waste of time, and not the motion of censure that the fifty-two deputies of VOX put forward against the unworthy government of the lie and the ruin of President Sánchez. [[Applauds]] In any case, I will set out the situation and point out to those responsible. Firstly, the most important thing, namely the people, the almost 600,000 public servants, who have seen how politicians allow themselves to fail to comply with the rules they had imposed, both on the public and on the private sector. The interims are the victims of politicians who have allowed themselves to despise those who, as public servants, are at the forefront of the citizens, providing the most essential public services, which justify the existence of the State as an organization in the service of society. Secondly, there is no doubt about who is responsible for this situation: the People's Party, which has so much assumed to have a management capacity that has proved to be non-existent and that the only thing it has demonstrated is its lack of courage to assume the political cost of solving the problems - they are only concerned about their political survival - and the PSOE, which, despite its acronyms, has never represented the workers, only distributes interestfully misery, poverty and hatred to extend its electoral base while its political leaders are the only ones to prosper. But, Mrs Oramas, as a canary, I cannot help referring to your party. Coalition Canaria has ruled over the last two decades in the Canary Islands and in this matter, the abuse of the temporality of public servants, Canary Islands is no better than the rest of Spain, is the seventh with the greatest abuse of temporality. So, Mrs Oramas, how can the Canary Coalition demand here what it has denied the Canary Islands? [[Applauds]] Regarding the abuse of temporality, VOX proposes as a starting point for the solution an audit to really know the problem: what places are affected, how many interims are there, what positions are occupying, what are their personal circumstances: age or time for retirement, for example. On 25 May, a few months before the adoption of Royal Decree-Law 14/2021, in a reply from the Government to this parliamentary group, the Government stated that it was unaware of the number of persons acting in the Armed Forces and in the State Security Forces and Bodies. He also stated that he did not know the number of workers with an interim contract serving social security and defence health institutions and teaching staff serving universities. How could Minister Iceta present a law to solve a problem that he himself admits to not knowing? Ladies and gentlemen, to what level of incompetence and humiliation do you have to arrive to feel ashamed and to understand that the only thing you can do for the good of Spain is to resign and call elections? To what level of ruin and misery are they willing to take us all Spanish so as to remain in power? [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas, I am sure you will recall how from this very rostrum you said you were glad that VOX had not obtained representation in the Canary Islands in the general elections of April 2019. Seven months later, his party did not win any seats in Las Palmas and would not have won its seat by Santa Cruz de Tenerife if they had not agreed to an electoral coalition against nature with the sinister Nueva Canarias, a party that has applied a sanitary cordon to them to evict them from almost all the Canary Islands institutions. Well, today his motion has revealed the failure of the autonomous state, because precisely the greatest abuse of temporality occurs in the autonomous administrations, especially in the area of health and education. We have also come to terms with the business of mafias and NGOs promoting the humanitarian drama of illegal immigration. Mrs Oramas, welcome to common sense; welcome to VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u145	Thank you, President, Members. Mrs Oramas raises a number of extremes about the abuse of temporality in this motion, a motion that is inappropriate for an extemporary period, because it should be presented as amendments to the bill that we are currently dealing with in this House, a bill that, as you know, comes from Decree-Law 14/2021. We are a party of government, we are a serious party that we are working on these amendments to the bill and that is why we are not going to enter into this unnecessary motion that you are presenting to us and putting to us today. The stabilization of public employment has always been a concern for our parliamentary group and for the Government of the People's Party, which in 2017 and 2018 launched two major agreements for the stabilization and consolidation of temporary public employment with the commitment to reduce it below 8%, a percentage that has been fulfilled in the General Administration of the State. At present, there is a temporality in public employment which, according to the data provided by the Secretary of State for Public Service in this House, reaches 37% in the autonomous communities and 12.48 % in the local entities. This is a serious problem that needs to be addressed with rigour and that the recent Decree-Law 14/2021 does not solve, closing in false the serious problem of temporality, mainly because it is an express regulation that lacks the necessary consensus, the participation of the affected groups and the reports of the consultative bodies of the State and, above all, a regular parliamentary debate; a decree-law that was rushed to this House in an extraordinary plenary for its validation and subsequent processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The misuse of the decree-law has already been recriminated on several occasions by the Constitutional Court to the Government by estimating the remedies that my parliamentary group has brought, authoritarian tics that have been put in evidence to a greater extent during the also declared unconstitutional state of alarm, and all seems to point out that its extension will also have this declaration of unconstitutionality. We have a government that flees from parliamentary control and dialogue with all the Spaniards, but that invents the so-called dialogue table with a separatist government of the Generalitat, whose president boasts of sitting the Government of Spain at the table of independence and denegotiate with the State of you; a table where it markets with the national sovereignty of all the Spaniards, a government of Spain that is helping to accelerate the decadence in which Catalonia is subdued and which has been promoted and encouraged by the Generalitat; a moral decadence, where the rights and freedoms of Catalans have been severely limited; a social decadence, where they have divided the Catalans with an increasing gap of coexistence; an economic decadence, having caused companies and investors to flee from Catalonia, and where the economic engine of Spain remains, unfortunately, more and more distant; where by party confrontations and lack of agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, the Generalita pro-creation posts have been suspended in Barcelona. A government that on such an important issue as the stability of public employment was auctioning on the march substantial modifications in the text of the decree-law, which defends here Minister Montero, to change the vote of Esquerra and get its support, as we saw in July during the botched validation, turning thousands of public employees into currency exchange and the object of a shameful auction. With this background, you will understand that we have deep doubts that the debate on the amendments to the current bill will serve to really solve and to give the answer that the temporary nature of employment in all public administrations requires. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u146	Thank you, Mrs. De Luna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u147	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures to Reduce Timeliness in Public Employment, which is the subject of this item in the debate, entered into force, as you are well aware, on 7 July. It was validated and is currently under parliamentary procedure as a draft law. A rule that came to this House with a previous road, trying to obtain the maximum consensus after the holding of sectoral conferences, the negotiating table of the public administrations, a broad consensus and dialogue with autonomous communities and local entities, and highlighting the agreement reached with the Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF in a proactive attitude, as described by the Minister of Finance and Public Service, María Jesús Montero, in this very forum, conscious, Mrs Oramas, that we are without the need to use disqualification, contempt or insult in the face of divergent arguments, conscious, as we are, I say, that it is a rule called to face and solve one of the biggest problems that the whole of the public administrations has, derived and aggravated by the previous management of the financial crisis of the previous stage. In her speech, the minister announced the will of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to process this text as a bill to incorporate as many improvements as possible, always, if not, within the framework of legality, dialogue and agreement, with the aim of achieving solutions that are durable and viable over time on such a complex issue that affects many people and all public administrations, with particular impact on territorial administrations, local authorities and autonomous communities. A regulation that seeks to solve and avoid high temporality in public employment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, reduce the existing temporality and, at the same time, prevent this situation from reproducing. Dissuasive measures are introduced to prevent misuse or abuse of interinity and, above all, let me reiterate: it is incorporated as an immediate complementary measure to alleviate the existing situation the expansion of stabilization processes, using a third process of stabilization of public employment, and avoiding delays in these new processes by requiring that tenders be published, approved and carried out - very important: and that they be carried out - the respective calls and conclude before 31 December 2024. An inherited problem for which effective and effective solutions are sought by modifying the Basic Staff Regulations. Yes, to adopt measures that will really allow us to make a leap towards a modern administration that is sizeable in its needs, but which gives legal certainty to public employment, giving it stability and quality in employment. This is a shared commitment to public administration reform that is part of the reforms included in the Recovery Plan, and very special attention is given to local government, small municipalities and autonomous communities. Mrs Oramas, you are presenting to us under the umbrella of a motion what really is an alternative text, at the moment, when we are in the process of dealing with a draft law, within the deadline for tabling amendments, a time when all the parliamentary groups will undoubtedly find the way to defend their proposals and where, of course, in the Socialist Group, we are convinced that we will find the right balance to reach the necessary agreements to improve and approve the proper regulation of the temporality of public employees, both in the Canary Islands and in the rest of the administrations. In this task, Mrs Oramas, ladies and gentlemen, we will be ready to work from the dialogue and agreement, to which I invite you from this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. Mrs Oramas, I understand from your speech that you do not accept any amendments. The motion shall be put to the vote on its terms. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] Don't you? You have the floor, Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u149	You'll vote for points, the eight points separately, okay?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u150	All right, on your terms and by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u152	Perfect. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Navarre on partial amendment of the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime and the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 213 telematics votes, 330; in favour, 15 plus 46 telematics votes, 61; against, 58 plus 116 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 44 plus 51 telematics votes, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u154	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u155	Vote on the point concerning the direct and single reading of the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. The vote was taken on the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 117 plus 225 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 51 telematics votes; against, 117 plus 174 telematics votes, 291.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u156	The amendment to the proposed reform of the Regulation is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-14-CD210914.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the overall vote on the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the vote on the non-law proposals and the motions resulting from urgent appeals, will take place at tomorrow's sitting. Good afternoon or good night, everyone. The meeting was suspended. It was eight o'clock at night. Note: Detected an error in Session Journal núm. 121, for the plenary session held on 14 September 2021, cve: DSCG-14-PL-121, has been replaced by cve: DSCG-14-PL-121-C1.
