ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude the urgent appeals of the VOX and Vasco Parliamentary Groups listed as items 23 and 24 of the agenda. [[EAJ-PNV]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u2	We begin with the discussion of consideration... [[Rumors]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, please be quiet. We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Andalusia, concerning the recognition of the gratuitousness and universality of the first cycle of Children's Education. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Parliament of Andalusia, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs María Márquez Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, you understand that it is immense satisfaction that I am able to go up to this rostrum to put a voice on my land, on Andalusia, a responsibility delegated to me by the Parliament of Andalusia to defend a reform of the Organic Law on Education that guarantees the progressive gratuity of children's education in our country, an initiative promoted by the Socialist Party of Andalusia, without any votes against - this is very important - because it is so the Socialist Party, it is in the Government, with a president like Pedro Sánchez leading the impulse of public places in children's education, and in the opposition, with Juan Espadas contributing from responsibility and dialogue to the progress of our land. Ladies and gentlemen, Maria Montessori said that the human being does not develop at university, but begins his mental development from birth and with greater intensity in the first three years of life. Both the United Nations, through the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Sustainable Development Goals, and the European Union, have incorporated the right to child education into the European pillar of social rights. Child education promotes equal opportunities, improves the development of cognitive and socio-emotional skills and reduces the risk of dropping out of school. Ladies and gentlemen, in life, as in a game of chance, we are given letters that we have not been able to choose, such as the situation of our family, the economy or where we live, and in life, as in card games, I assure you that it is better to have good cards than bad ones. Fighting that inequality is achieved by guaranteeing, regardless of the cards you have, the same tools to be able to play well. That, basically and essentially, is the right to education, and is that regardless of where you were born and regardless of your family's economic situation you have the same opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, in Andalusia one in three children lives on the poverty line. It suffers the highest drop-out rate in Spain: 21.8 points in 2020. Dozens of child school workers have been fired and hundreds of women work every day in their schools without any help. Our autonomous community has been the only one that has rejected 123 million euros in aid to children's schools without negotiating it with the Government of Spain. We believe that it is very important for you to be admitted to this reform in order to guarantee access to education from 0 to 3 years, regardless of the economic situation of each family, especially for those who cannot afford it. Ladies and gentlemen, the data is very clear, they speak for themselves. The highest percentages of schooling in Andalusia are two. One is the percentage of those who have one hundred percent of the bonus square, that is, those who don't have to pay anything at all. Of the total number of students enrolled in Andalusia, almost 50% are in these families who do not have to pay anything to take their children to children's schools. But the next highest percentage of schooling is available to families with more resources, who can afford, in this case, to pay 300 euros a month, because at home, according to the barems that the Junta de Andalucia has marked, more than 2400 euros a month. Ladies and gentlemen, have you wondered what are the lowest percentages of schooling, why children are not enrolled, why are there empty places? Not only is it a birth problem, but this is also the case when a family has to pay 200 euros a month for each child and for each child and does not reach twice the minimum interprofessional wage. In these cases, students in school account for only 2% of the total. If the expenditure is not bearable for families, they do not go, they are incorporated into the regulated education later and, while, they are cared for by a family member. And, ladies and gentlemen, who takes care of you? For most of us: more than half a million Spanish women do not seek employment or work because they are caring for another person, while the number of men in the same circumstance is twelve times lower. Ladies and gentlemen, conciliation cannot be a luxury, and that is why we are bringing you this initiative here today. We put ourselves in their hands to open the door to the future and continue to advance in rights and freedoms. The Socialist Group today entrusts this responsibility to a magnificent Andalusian Member who knows and feels this reality, as is my colleague Rafi Crespin. I would like to thank, with the permission of the President, all the rapporteurs of this law from the various political groups and the lawyer. But, if I may, ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words for those who are currently following the debate...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u4	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u5	..., my dear Gema, Maria Isabel and Rachel, who are representatives of the children's schools of Andalusia and, thanks to them, thanks to these warriors, we are here today. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u6	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Miguel Ángel Ruiz Ortiz of the Andalusian People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u7	Thank you very much, President. It is an honour to be here today in the gallery of the Congress of Deputies, the seat of national sovereignty and, of course, to do so on behalf of the Parliament of Andalusia, representing 8.5 million Andalusians; the 8.5 million Spaniards who live in Andalusia and who are proud of this dual condition, because for us being Andalusians is our concrete way of being Spanish. Today we came here three deputies from different parties to bring a common initiative from the Andalusian Parliament. It is true that it comes on the proposal of one of the opposition groups, of the Socialist Group, but now in the Andalucia of change, the laws of the opposition are passed and now in that Andalucia of change, the important thing is not so much where the initiative comes from, but where that initiative leads us. [[Applauds]] It is an initiative that has been adopted with broad consensus and without any vote against, because there has been work by all the rapporteurs here that we have made an effort to reach agreement. I want my first message here this afternoon to be that of the need we have in politics to reach agreements and to reach more agreements, because the citizens are asking us to do so. Consensus is the responsibility of all, ladies and gentlemen, although it is true that especially and in the first place those groups that support the Government, which have the responsibility to reach out. I am talking about this request for consensus, and I want to claim here today, in the forum of the Congress of Deputies, the need for a great educational pact at the national level, because people on the street are tired that every time the government changes, the educational model changes. We need an educational pact where all political forces are and so, when the Government changes, education does not change; and we also need the educational community to be in that pact and to be heard, because if that pact does not make no sense. Today we bring here a proposal for a law to implement gratuity in the first cycle of Child Education, from 0 to 3 years, because it is a necessity and because, moreover, it is a social demand. It is the only stage in our education system that is not free today and, precisely, it is the one that families need most and at the stage that they need most help. Therefore, we have to help families, we have to help them to reconcile, in addition, in order to promote birth in this way and we also have to help families to choose the education of their children at liberty, because gratuity is a guarantee of freedom, and we can only choose in freedom if there are different options, if there are different models, not only one, and we can only choose on equal terms if those different options are financed by the State and are free for families, because if not families with fewer resources could not afford to choose on equal terms, and that will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that would be tremendously unfair. [[Applauds]] This initiative that we bring here today reflects, logically, the Andalusian reality. We have a sector in children's education where 70% are small children's schools set up by women entrepreneurs who give work to another 10,000 women in Andalusia and we therefore ask them to help ensure the survival of this sector. That's our reality. We obviously understand that you are not going to take into account only our reality, which will take into account all the realities of Spain, but we ask you, please, also to take into account our reality. I'm done, Mr. President. Today we bring here this proposal from the Andalusian Parliament, which you may like more or less, but it is so that you can discuss it, amend it and work on it. We ask you only two things: the first is that you vote in favour of your consideration so that it can be processed and discussed and worked on; the second is that, please, in this law yes, you listen to the whole sector. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u8	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs María del Mar Sánchez Muñoz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. What society is it that, in the perhaps most important stage of child development, allows the child's first three years to go blank instead of starting his future development as an individual and adult citizen? Is our society fair if it allows children's rights to be violated by complicating access to a 0-3 position? Is our inclusive society when it does not ensure family reconciliation in all families? Is it a society committed to the future if it comes together and does not solve what exactly causes failure and drop out of school? For these issues, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank the Bureau of this Congress for passing this consensus law in Andalusia, and I say consensus because, in fact, it was supported by four of the five groups; only one group abstained, the Group of the United Nations Podemos. There is no teacher, theoretical or expert who does not recognize the importance of early childhood education; there is no teacher who does not ensure that early childhood education is necessary for a country to have a vision of the future. I am talking about understanding the educational process as a social leveling tool that prevents learning difficulties, which curbs inequalities and, of course, reduces school failure primarily in children of the most disadvantaged socio-economic families. In short, I am talking about enhancing at that age from 0 to 3 the emotional stimuli provided by the family with patterns of physical, cognitive, psychological, communication and social development, so that from the classroom we can achieve in the end that just, egalitarian and inclusive society that we all want. I have the immense honor of representing my land here, Andalusia. Andalusia rises today to this rostrum, together with the other two spokesmen, so that the Lomlou, with timid advances in this sense, is much more ambitious with the childhood from 0 to 3 years. It is a law, ladies and gentlemen, which was born lame in relation to gratuitousness; it does not speak of gratuitousness and can therefore further hinder and exacerbate social inequality. Have you thought about what answer we can give to those families who do not have a place for their child from 0 to 3 or who cannot reconcile for this very reason? Have you thought about what job guarantees they will give to first-cycle workers who are already serving from private schools, placed at the service of the Administration, and that only in Andalusia, in my land, are more than fifteen thousand, mainly women? Have you considered how the economic consequences of not investing adequately in education will be addressed in the future? The famous Heckman equation comes to say that low investment in early childhood education is related to the increase in dependent adults in the system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, laws should be born to endure; otherwise it will be a scam for the citizenry. In the Lomlou there are many issues that need to be reformed and it is precisely because the educational community has not been sufficiently attended, something we have already done in Andalusia, as has been said here, when for three months we heard more than eighty representatives of the educational community in the working group of the social pact for education. These professionals came to tell us to endorse the proposals of this law. By the way, we want to thank those present here, representatives of children's schools, those women who have fought so hard to make this law here today too. We need future pacts. We need serious pacts, not ideological patches, and therefore we call for this law to ensure that the first cycle of children is universal and free for all families who consider it so; that it can be provided from public-owned centres, but also from private centres with places available to the Administration - this is a model of success that has been working for twenty years in Andalusia and that from the Andalusian Government has been strengthened - and that cycle 0 to 3 is indivisible, that it focuses on the development of children, without economic interference or by birth issues. And for that, of course, ladies and gentlemen, the state has to guarantee resources, structural transfers to the autonomous communities. Apart, of course, from all the short-term, as in this case of extra European funds. Andalusia requests, please, that the EUR 123 million of the funds can also be used to advance this gratuity. From Andalusia we defend that education must always be programmed from the consensus and, therefore, this law proposed by the opposition in Parliament comes here today, modified, yes, but defended by the spokespersons of three parliamentary groups, the proposing group, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and my group, Citizens. Andalusia is asking not only for Andalusians...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u10	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u11	... but for childhood - I finish right now, Your Honor, thank you very much - from all over our country. Let's make it possible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u12	Thank you. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a matter on which it is almost impossible to show opposition if we read the title of this bill, because who is going to go against the gratuitousness and universality of education for virtually all children since birth? But the truth is that it clashes with what is currently being applied in Spain, if we stick to the text as it comes. By referring only to the Autonomous Community of Cantabria, to which the Regionalist Party represents in this Congress, and assuming competence in the community government, there are a number of things to be said. Some of the issues proposed are not compatible with the implementation system of the first cycle of early childhood education that has been implemented for several years in Cantabria. For example, funding is provided for public and private places and even for the catering service. Here we say that the implementation model should be left open and that each Administration should decide how to develop it: with public squares only, with concerted squares, with a mixed system of both, what implementation rhythms, what explanation the local administrations would have, for example. And this is an organizational task that should not be imposed from a global standard. On the other hand, in Cantabria the dining service is not generally free of charge at any educational stage. This was going to create, moreover, a comparative aggravation. Cantabria has already begun the deployment of a 2-year public network of classrooms for which a great deal of resources have been allocated in 2003-2004. Today, a small community such as ours has a network of large and consolidated 2 year classrooms, 180 classrooms in 122 educational centres and 62 municipalities throughout the region, attended by 2377 students. This is not cheap: more than EUR 4.3 million is allocated directly to staff and facilities. The two-year classrooms are located in children's and primary education centres and in each of them there is a full-time teacher in Children's Education and a senior technician in Children's Education. It is a considerable effort for a community of 580,000 inhabitants and 3340 million euros in budget. I will give you an example: one of the classrooms created this year in the San Andrés de Luena, a school for children and primary education in a municipality of six hundred inhabitants, is maintained with a total of eighteen pupils. Therefore, when we claim from the PRC funding that takes into account the actual cost of services, we do so by thinking of realities like this. This is an expensive model, but it is necessary for all cantabres to have access to identical equipment, goods and services, and it is the only way to ensure the survival of our peoples. And this also relates to European funds, because in Cantabria we have always claimed that the Government of Spain, through their respective ministries, should allow each council a real margin of participation and design in the decisions of these communities; no one better to identify the concrete measures of each area. If that had been the case, perhaps these funds which now have to go to an area where Cantabria is already advanced, that of schooling from 0 to 3 years, could have gone to higher priority areas of the education system. But we must make the need virtue, and with this consolidated network Cantabria has decided that the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism are now destined to take one more step and allow the deployment for 1-year-old classrooms. It is true that there are €660 million to create 64,000 child education places from 0 to 3 years until 2024, but what happens after 2024? There will be no more European funds for this project. Nor has the Government of Spain undertaken to cooperate in the provision of the service when the deadline is running out. And there will be an increase in Chapter 1 in staff costs that each community will have to assume directly. Finally, we are seeing that the Spanish Government can decide, but that the autonomous communities have to do and pay, and of course this does not seem to be the best model of territorial cooperation, at least the one defended by the Regionalist Party. We are not going to oppose the handling of this proposal by the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. We agree on the substance, but not on the model. It is true that the balance is balanced by progressing in schooling from 0 to 3 years, but also that there is a lack of express commitment from the Spanish Government to its financing, because without this a model change cannot be imposed, which has been in force for more than twenty years and is working with relative success. I repeat that our 2-year-old classrooms have been in kindergartens and primary schools for fifteen years, and in Ramales, even a high school. The third paragraph of this proposal states that they can only be offered in exclusive centres for children's education. Well, look, our model currently allows to offer places for all students at the corresponding age for 75% effective of the 2 year olds, and it is not necessary to change this model. Creating a network of exclusive child education centres from 0 to 3 would mean investments that are beyond the reach of our community, and it is also a huge waste, because we will spend money on building classrooms for students who already have schooling under excellent facilities conditions. In practice, there is also a radical change in the system of concerts with privately owned centres. Freeness on both networks, public and private, implies a more than remarkable effort; moreover, we would miss to know something that the proponents do not do, and that is where we will have to get these funds. In short, and without prejudice to our assumption of the general principle of freeness and universality, with the possible exception of the dining room, the proposed implementation model would force a complete change in the organization of the system at the current stage. So, I think he needs a lot of retouching. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u14	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u15	Good afternoon. Welcome, Mrs Márquez and Mrs Sánchez, and welcome, Mr Ruiz, to this Congress of Deputies. I have the feeling that we have attended - let me be humorous - a small letter from the Andalusian pre-election campaign for parliamentarians from different groups in Congress. We have been presented with a proposal for a law and I would like to address from a triple perspective the proposal that they have made to us. First, from the competition sphere: who brings and who is responsible for defining the model that is being proposed. My predecessor at the turn of the word has analysed it very well. Secondly, from the educational perspective, which is the approach in which the three spokespersons who have intervened the most have insisted. And thirdly, from the point of view of funding, which has barely been mentioned - yes in the last part, a little bit of a misconception - but which I believe is actually the central axis of the bill that you bring to this Congress for debate. You argue that the main purpose of this initiative is to ensure the free education of children. Let us go on to say that we fully agree that it is a decisive tool for social leveling and to eliminate inequalities, that it is very important to make progress in this area in order to succeed in later stages and that we understand the drama of having a drop-out rate of 28%. We share it. In Euskadi, we have practically all the two-year-old students in school - universal and free education - and we are making strides and we are going to move forward more quickly in the first stage of child education, taking measures for this gratuitousness in those socio-economic sectors that have the greatest difficulties and where we have to set priorities for intervention. But, look, the proposal you are making, which you say is to move forward, is very curious, because in reality what you are proposing and bringing us to debate is a step backwards from what is already approved in the Organic Education Law, and I will quote you exactly where. You raise the amendment to Article 15 of the LOE, which in point 2 says exactly that second-cycle childhood education will be free of charge. The paragraph thus begins: Second-cycle child education will be free of charge. Point. You, however, in the proposal that you bring us here for debate, what you say is: 'Educational administrations will ensure the universality of the first and second cycles of childhood education by progressively promoting gratuitousness'. That is to say, you pass from the second cycle is already free, point, to progressively boost gratuitousness. This represents a setback in the field of the second cycle; it would mean an advance in the recognition of the first cycle, but not in the other cycle. Therefore, from that perspective, work would undoubtedly have to be done. We believe that the problem is really a problem of financing; it points more in preference to the basic regulation of the financing of the common system communities in the Organic Law 8/1980, on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, and not to aspects that require their inclusion in the system of the Organic Law of Education. That is why our group will abstain and allow for consideration. I understand that what you are proposing - and it is reasonable - is that progress be made from the Government of the State in financing the measures that need to be taken to facilitate and enable progress to be made in this universality and gratuitousness of the system of child education. I would also like to stress what has already been said. It is up to them to determine which model, what the priorities are going to be and how progress is to be made in this regard that the competent educational administrations, which are those of the autonomous communities, are determining how these steps are being taken and adapted. Everyone will have to know what their priorities are. Perhaps it may seem to you that this is a priority because you have not made enough progress, but perhaps we can say that progress must be made in vocational training that reaches other levels and other groups more strongly. We believe that the one who has to develop the model is the competent education administration, which is that of each of the autonomous communities. They also incorporate in this model the school dining rooms, which are not collected, and each one is articulating it. You know that, explicitly, in the Organic Law on Education, in Article 157 of Title VIII, where the necessary economic resources are discussed, it is said that both Euskadi and Navarra have, for the financing of the resources, our specific bilateral way collected both in the concert and in the agreement, a bilateral way between the respective governments. We insist, if the debate proposes that progress be made in this necessary funding for the autonomous communities of the general line, we will not be an obstacle to its success, but in relation to what is in the LOE of the second cycle of Children's Education, the drafting of its proposed law is a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u16	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing an initiative by the Andalusian Parliament which, from an educational point of view, is an important reference for correcting the disadvantages and educational gaps in favour of equal opportunities: the recognition of the free and universal nature of the first cycle of child education from 0 to 3 years. This educational stage has been shown to be essential for the integral development of children, to prevent premature educational failure and to detect and correct learning difficulties. Therefore, we are faced with an educational offer essential to guarantee equal opportunities, which is the reason for the Citizens' project. It is not in vain that the Liberals were the first to push for aid of this kind, and we have kept them and we will keep them in all our institutions. Whenever we go up to this rostrum we remember that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union that provides the least support to families. This lack of support has been translated for decades into poorly designed state and autonomous benefits, which barely reach those who need it most, and a very divergent educational network of children's education between the regions in terms of both coverage and public policies. Although we have spent the last 15 years in our country from 16% in schooling from 0 to 3 years to 41%, there are large differences between the Autonomous Communities. For example, there is a school enrolment rate of 18.3 per cent in the Murcia Region and 53.8 per cent in the Basque Country. Others are above 40%, such as Andalusia, Madrid and Galicia, followed by Catalonia, Aragón, La Rioja, Castilla-La Mancha and Comunidad Valenciana, between 30% and 40%. In addition, when we talk about conciliation and co-responsibility, it is vital to have essential services from 0 to 3 years, services that are universal and free and that allow families to make their working and family lives compatible. It is one of the most practical and realistic measures. All families have to have this service available free of charge. It is not fair to have to pay for an educational service that is essential for our children and must be universal. With this universality we will contribute to many families and, especially, that many women do not have to choose between their professional development and the care of their children. Citizens are pushing children's education from 0 to 3 years as universal and free so that in Spain no woman has to choose between having children or having a professional career. We are therefore faced with a working proposal, with a broad consensus in the Andalusian Parliament, which prioritizes the socio-educational development of minors, promotes equal opportunities, especially for children belonging to socio-economically more vulnerable groups, and facilitates reconciliation. This is the useful policy, ladies and gentlemen, the really good policy. Here we all win and absolutely no one loses. We all know families whose situation crumbles when they have a child, since they can't afford to pay for a carer and they can't afford to pay for a child's school. This has led many couples and especially many women to have to ask for surpluses or to reduce their working hours because it is impossible for them to reconcile. In Spain, nine out of ten child-care surpluses are granted to women. This situation has an impact on women's professional careers, holding back their work and wage expectations almost throughout their entire career. The burden of rearing should not be solely on women. If we are to make further progress in the area of equality, we must correct and reduce the wage gap with men and the State and the autonomous communities must provide citizens with strong public services that facilitate co-responsibility. In turn, universal access to early childhood education can be a very effective policy to reduce one of the biggest problems we have in Spain, which is the high rate of early school failure. All evidence suggests that this school failure is closely linked to the studies and income of families. This situation is very symptomatic that the public system has not just functioned properly as a social lift and that it is unable to correct the differences in origin of many students throughout the mandatory stage. We therefore appreciate this proposal from a positive point of view, that is, that any family wishing their children to enter education from 0 to 3 years of age have a universal and free place, that these places may be in public-owned centres or in private centres with places available to the Administration for the schooling of their children and that the cycle is an indivisible cycle conceived as a whole, without us being able to incorporate two-year-olds into school classes. I therefore believe that today we are dealing with a proposal for a celebration; a celebration because it is a political one, with virtually unanimity in the Andalusian Parliament on a subject as important as the education of children from 0 to 3 years. It is essential for children to adopt this law as a substantial measure for progress to be made in improving equal educational opportunities and for progress to be made in the field that we liberals defend, because we liberals advocate more reconciliation from a realistic point of view, we advocate a promotion of birth and decent pensions in the present and sustainable for the future. We must make progress on this free of charge with short-term measures, with European funds and also with structural measures such as the present, at two speeds, as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. Today is an important day for Spain, today is a day on which we all win and do not lose anyone, from politics with capitals, from useful politics, from good politics. We're all up to it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u18	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG is convinced that early-age education is important, which has great educational, cognitive and social benefits. That is why we understand that this step from considering the cycle from 0 to 3 years as an education cycle and not merely as an assistance cycle was very positive, but not enough, because the necessary public impulse is lacking to guarantee the necessary places in the public system for all people who want to come to it. We therefore consider it appropriate to ensure the universality and freeness of the 0-3 year cycle and, at the same time, that the State, at least as long as there is a Ministry of Education, while maintaining basic competences in the field of education, contributes to financing the extension of the 0-3 year cycle of Child Education. However, we cannot agree with some aspects: firstly, the proposal is disrespectful to the competences of the different educational administrations and, secondly, we cannot support the fact that public administrations are required by law to finance places in private centres and to conclude with private centres.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u20	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u21	The BNG defends that public money must be to guarantee places in the public system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u23	Thank you, President. Welcome. We have a bill from the Andalusian Parliament to ensure the free education of children. In principle, no one should or could oppose such a goal. The problem is that where the free education of children should have been guaranteed within the framework of the education system, it was in the very law that we discussed in this Congress, but there, despite proposals made, neither the People's Party nor the Government agreed to enter fully into this debate. It is clear that ensuring that all boys and girls have access to this education cycle free of charge is ensuring that everyone will start in the same exit box. Moreover, it is the basis of family reconciliation. However, we call for a powerful network of free public schools, a quality educational reference, run by non-profit projects, with the necessary investments and introducing educational innovations, such as participation or an educational partner. And it is of course vital that in this idea of gratuitousness we do not open the door, as has already happened in some communities, either to large multinationals or to vulture funds to use childhood education as a business. That is essential for us. We will not hinder the processing, but we already tell you that during the processing there are issues that can mean a risk and a setback that we will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u24	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u25	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me welcome Mrs Márquez and Mrs Sánchez and Mr Ruiz and thank them for their presence here today and for presenting us with a proposal for a law that allows us to talk about education. There is a tradition in this House that when we talk about education, we talk about anything but education, and you have achieved something that I have never seen before, and that is that we are all talking about education at the moment. I hope that the tone and interventions will continue in this direction. We are presented, ladies and gentlemen, with a proposal for a law to extend funding to the first cycle of Child Education. We can no longer share the sense of his initiative, in the general tone and in the concrete tone. Avoiding the sectarianism with which the parliamentary majorities of this House normally approach concerted education is important. I think the approach of your initiative is good and that is why we are going to vote in favour of your text. And we are going to vote in favour also because we have always advocated the funding of the 0-3 cycle as a double benefit. Firstly, from an educational point of view, it is very clear that it facilitates and assists students in terms of equality and educational quality, and secondly, in terms of family equality, funding in cycle 0-3 helps to equality and family reconciliation at home, which is important. That is why this measure, along with other measures such as child support, has been repeatedly defended by my group in this House, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal for a law which you are presenting to us here today. I don't remember who was talking about the educational scam of the three representatives. I don't remember who it was. I ask you one thing, if I am allowed to ask you something, and it is that you monitor the processing of this text in this House, because sometimes, I repeat, there is a tendency at times that when a text commits too much to the Government is blocked in one of the corners of this House thanks to the bureaucracy that the Bureau uses to ensure that the laws are not processed. I ask you to keep an eye on us, to push us and to ensure, together with our strength within and outside Parliament, that this law comes forward. Count on our support. We're at your disposal. Thank you again and welcome.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u26	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u27	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Parliament of Andalusia brings us to this House is PNL concerning the free education from 0 to 3 years. Our group, Republican Left, fully agrees. We are in favour of this measure, of the measure itself. In fact, we consider it indispensable and from Esquerra and from the Government of Catalonia we are working, with feminist policies, with policies of equality of truth, policies terrified in reality. Free from 0 to 3 years is a measure that has to be able to accompany the shared upbringing and improve or directly make possible the work and family reconciliation, which is so important. The gratuitousness of this educational stage, which is mandatory, but which is universal, allows society to move towards social equity, allows society to take a step towards equal opportunities, eliminating inequalities that fall and directly impact on the well-being of children; an equal opportunity that must be built from childhood. Thus, the schooling of this stage is really an opportunity for the integral development of boys and girls. First of all, I would like to point out that our vote is going to be, in this case, a abstention, allowing this consideration to be taken forward. I'll also explain to you that we don't think it's the most appropriate way. For example, from Catalonia, from the Government, from the Department of Education, we are negotiating right now in the autonomous budgets this gratuity from 0 to 3 years, because we consider it a basic pillar, an essential pillar, and already for the course that comes we allocate 90 million euros to start this transformation progressively, starting with the gratuity from 2 to 3 years. Without anything more to say, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u28	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u29	Thank you, President. I also thank the rapporteur and the rapporteurs of this bill who are bringing here today from the Andalusian Parliament. When a person is born, a hand of letters is distributed; some or some of them are touched by a full of aces, but others are not touched by a mere couple, and the only way to re-wrestle that hand that has touched us by chance or by birth is education. Education is the most powerful weapon that humanity possesses to achieve equality and provide opportunities for those who were born without practically any. When our educational system is not well oriented, it reproduces those existing inequalities. For example, in Córdoba, the city where I live, in the neighborhood of Las Palmeras, of the Duque de Rivas school, only one student has arrived at the university in fifteen years. It is the sixth poorest neighborhood in Spain, and that school has 99% early school dropout. Therefore, these students are the most needy, those who most need this strong network of children's schools from 0 to 3 years public and free, as empirical evidence confirms that teaching from 0 to 3 years reduces the starting inequalities between students, benefiting especially the most vulnerable students. The promotion of development in the first years of life is key to both child health and well-being. In addition, the educational care of children aged 0 to 3 years during this first cycle of the child stage has a compensatory function of those inequalities originating in the adverse social, cultural or economic environment. However, the socially disadvantaged student is the least likely to go to such children's schools because of many factors, such as lack of information or economic barriers, which are often hidden, beyond registration and lack of places, as well as the extent of concerted education, how not to. This bill from the Andalusian Parliament today has an impeccable explanatory statement. Music sounds very good, it's even poetic music, but we have to say that as soon as we stop reading we begin to discover that behind that magnificent melody there is a message that is perverse, and that is that the parties of the right and the extreme right that govern the Board ask the government to finance with state public funds the extension and universalization of the model from 0 to 3 years - which we applaud, and we have to say -, but they introduce, as well as not, the collectible from which the private concerted centers will also be financed. And there is the crux of the issue of all this, and we are concerned about how the Government that currently governs Andalusia, the Government of the Right, is going to manage it, which of course does not try, and we know it, to improve the quality of public education, which also serves 70% of students in Andalusia, but opens up more education to private companies that consider education to be an economic benefit and not a human right. What can we expect, we will also say, of an Andalusian Government which, while this Government, the State Government, invests 200 million euros for children's education, has rejected 123 million to create 12,000 public places. What are we going to expect from those who have recently fired 2,700 teachers from our education system. What can we expect from an Education Advisor, Mr. Imbroda, who has sold his FP company to a US investment fund for just 200 million euros, what a coincidence, at the time when it is proposed to develop the FP and at the same time they are taken out very few, very few public FP places for the private company to have greater profits. This is the usual thing, it's the wolf taking care of the chickens. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of Citizens, of VOX, you are not concerned about fairness, equality, quality or equal opportunities, as we are; you are concerned about how you will get private companies - and we also run the risk of these investment funds - to get the biggest cut in the public budget, in a very liberal attitude, because you are liberal, very liberal!, until the time comes to take public money and public financing. So you look somewhere else, and that too I have to say about the concerted one in Andalusia, you look somewhere else, I say, when the conditions of the concerted children's schools are bad, bad!, both in facilities - we have seen it - and in the working conditions of the workers, which we are very worried about, because I remember that they are workers. Ninety-nine per cent of the workforce lives in precarious and poor working conditions, and are women. In other words, they not only support a model of labour exploitation, but also an educational model of worse quality. [[Applauds]] That is why, although we are not going to block this consideration, we are going to work to ensure that this bill is in line with the spirit of the Lomlou, because, as my partner of the United Nations, We can by Andalusia, has already stated in the Andalusian Parliament, since it is a text before the Lomloe does not resolve anything that is not already resolved there. Even the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that with this articulation we sometimes come into contradiction with one of the sections of the Lomlou and, above all, with that spirit which legislates this non-compulsory but very important stage, and it does so by prioritizing public-owned educational institutions, which is what we are defending from our political space. And I'm done. We should be working on the development of Lomlou in accordance with its additional third provision, which states that within one year of the entry into force of this law, in collaboration with the autonomous administrations, they will develop an eight-year plan for the extension of this first cycle of child education so that sufficient public supply is made. In that, ladies and gentlemen, we should be working, and in that they will find us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u30	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am curious that the various speakers from the Andalusian Parliament have made it clear that VOX also voted in favour of this proposal. Not only that, but the representatives of VOX in the Commission of this House have repeatedly presented initiatives in this same direction. And not only that, but thanks to VOX, thanks to its insistence, we have reached a historic agreement in the Community of Madrid for the gratuity of this non-compulsory stage, always in strict compliance with our electoral commitment. [[Applauds]] Before proceeding further, I would like to thank the representatives of the National Federation of Children's Education Centres for their presence in the Chamber and to highlight the tremendous struggle they are carrying out in defending their jobs. They represent that Spain that does not want to live subsidized, that Spain that works and that earns life with honesty and professional competence. Moreover, they do so by defending a trade that we feel is more necessary than ever now that our nation is moving towards a demographic suicide, with birth rates well below the replacement rate, and in an economic context in which the majority of families who need two wages to maintain the home are forced to take their children to day care centres or kindergartens. In line with what we have advocated in the Madrid Community, in the Commission and in the Andalusian Parliament, we will support this reform proposed by this Parliament, because we understand that with the current wording of the Lomlou, combined with the project to create 65,000 places of children's education indicated in the General Budgets, an unwise and irrational project is being proposed, a project which also gives priority to the places of children of one and two years of age, encouraging the quartering of the stage, and, worse, leaving the parents of children under one year of age without the possibility of attending children's schools. Because private children's schools will not be able to survive alone with these children and will close, as they have already closed almost a thousand of them, and their closure will cause these families to have real problems if they want to work and raise at the same time. This project is irrational because these children's schools have 120 000 vacancies and have the necessary infrastructure and staff for this purpose. Only with the vacancies in this sector in Andalusia and Valencia does the figure reach 65 000 vacancies. And of course we will support the creation of children's education centres where there is no alternative, but it seems to us a nonsense to create these institutions in places where the provision of this education is sufficiently covered. [[Applauds]] In the VOX Group we asked the ministry about the foundations of the creation of these new places, about the studies that have been done to justify them, for their location, etc., without obtaining any answer. It is imprudent, therefore, that, without having carried out a previous study, without informing the total amount of the necessary investments, without even considering the possibility of taking advantage of the existing network of children's schools, the ministry launches this project, a project that, as we have seen, seems inspired by the demagogy of the United Podemos and allies and their easy slogans: 'Free public school from 0 to 3 years', confusing the public and the private with the real opposition between the public and the private, but between the private and the state. You prefer state school, and it doesn't surprise us, because what we are interested in is an exclusively state educational institution because you are allergic to educational freedom. The reason is clear: you want to impose your irrational creed, your ideological mantras, your conception of the world and of culture on everyone, from the cradle to the grave, as it corresponds to a party that despises social pluralism, that defends tyranny where the people live in misery and that wants a Spain subjugated and subsidized where the citizens can have no more vital plan than to live a degraded life while the elites of this left enjoy their mansions, their private security and their tourist trips. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] The lords of the left 'caviar', who can afford private education and health, do not want the children of the Spanish workers to be able to receive more education than the one designed by them, a teaching aimed at indoctrination in their sinister ideology - that is why they want to eliminate the concerted school and the children's schools - a doctrinal system that is more interested in gender ideology, climate change, the evil so-called reproductive rights - which is nothing more than an understatement of free abortion - or animal welfare than the well-being of people. That is why they applaud child kidnappers and question court decisions based on expert reports; that is why they ignore prostituted girls in the Balearic Islands or children killed by their mothers; anything that does not match their disastrous ideology is silenced or attacked when it is already impossible to hide it. [[applause]] They are more interested in the destruction of Spain camouflaged under the other euphemism, that of plurinational Spain, than the rights of those who speak Spanish in Catalonia; for this reason they have silenced the intolerable harassment suffered by a five-year-old creature and his family in Canet at the hands of the independent jury. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we call for support for this reform and for the use of the network of private children's schools through the relevant conventions. Another excellent alternative is the financing of this education by means of the school cheque. In the context of a very low birth rate, the depopulation of many regions and provinces in Spain, and a damaged economy that brings about the highest rate of youth unemployment in Europe, which prevents young people from forming families that guarantee the social reproduction of existence, rather than seeking solutions, young people are encouraged to live irresponsibly, to the carpe diem, to the total absence of transcendence and to the impossibility of forming a family. [[Applauds]] In VOX we will always defend the opposite: the care of our children and the institutions that make possible the reconciliation of work and family life. The VOX Group understands that this reform will save thousands of jobs, but this is not enough, we need to promote family protection and birth promotion policies, and to defend these two extremes, as in so many other issues, only VOX remains. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Redondo Calvillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u33	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. This afternoon we are discussing the consideration of something that unquestionably changes the lives of many children, who will later be our future; therefore, what we really are discussing is whether we want to improve our future or not. Schooling from 0 to 3 years - we all agree - is an opportunity for the integral educational development and socialization of these children, which favors equal opportunities and the reconciliation of family and work life. We also know that the pandemic and the economic situation in which it has resulted have caused particular damage to families with greater economic difficulties or at risk of exclusion, who are the first to be forced to take their children out of school or day care, precisely because they are not free. You are so used to selling smoke, and in Andalusia we know it well, that you think, and even I think you believe it, that by making a law like Lomlou it is all solved. A law without economic memory, which is not accompanied by the necessary funding; a law that violates its own third additional provision, and a law where it says, Diego says and that in less than a year it has had to rescind in its criteria. And this happens because the government legislates and budgets by obviating the reality of our educational model, as if there were no more than 5,000 private centers in Spain that give jobs to more than fifty thousand people. You approve of the Lomlou with a funding that is conditional on the creation of exclusively public places, which translates into a misconception for the Spaniards because there is no law further away from reality. The People's Party proposes that free education should be extended to all educational institutions, as a measure of equity, in the first cycle of children's education, because we aim to ensure that no child is left out of school for social, economic, cultural reasons or because these children have special educational needs. As long as this transfer of funds from the State to the autonomous communities does not arrive, it cannot be guaranteed and these children will not be able to enjoy the fundamental right to education. Therefore, the government of the nation, on the one hand, and the rest of the public administrations that are governed by the left, on the other, should not despise the network of centers, which has been providing this service for many years and which so much employment offers; indeed, something which in theory is very worrying to you - first to your lords of the PSOE, then unburdened by your lords of Podemos -, employment in your immense female majority, female! What do you think all those women who will be unemployed will do? As the saying goes, from saying to fact there's a good stretch, isn't there? This proposal for a law presupposes the opposite, the defence of a plural, quality and free educational offer, and would imply a real advance and improvement in the face of this unique model that the Government is planning to implement by providing for exclusive funding for the establishment of public ownership centres, as it has been doing in the past two years. And they do so blinded by their claim to impose a single public model where there is neither freedom nor choice. In addition, this initiative that we discussed today was not only adopted by consensus in Andalusia, it was the PSOE that promoted the initiative. You know why? Because maintaining another position raises a confrontation with the sector, because the educational model of Andalusia is the model inherited from the Andalusian Socialist Party: an education through concerts with private schools, in which a public price per square was fixed and will be increased to 100% of the cost to the most vulnerable families. Do you know what the PSOE educational model is? A model in which private day care centres account for 66.4% of the sector in the community. The network of children's schools from 0 to 3 years old has 2143 centres. Of these, 1423 are privately owned, agreed with the autonomous government of the PSOE for many years; 770 are publicly owned, but only 170 are owned by the Board of Andalusia. In both public and private ownership centres, the squares and the dining room are not free of charge, but the price is subsidized. This model was the Andalusian PSOE who designed, expanded and perpetuated it until he lost the elections in 2018, so it is impossible to understand that a few days ago his secretary general, Juan Espadas, denounced the privatization of Juanma Moreno's executive system. But what is this? Or was it that, perhaps, they were in a political act and who had next door was the Minister of Education? [[Applauds]] It'd probably be the second. Man, a little honesty and honesty. On the other hand, the PSOE has rejected our amendments to the General Budgets of the State; it has vetoed our amendment to the modification of the concert for this stage from 0 to 3 years. On the other hand, in recent days, in the face of the refusal of Catalonia, Euskadi, Madrid and Andalusia it seems that it has been open to change the criteria regarding the destination of funds to finance also in private centers. Again the contradictions of the PSOE are highlighted in this matter, as in many others, which we do not care if it will only affect you, the problem is that we talk about the education of our children. We therefore find it impossible to carry out the demands of the Government of the nation in the field of education without irreparable harm to the sector and to the families themselves, and we should add that without the necessary funding. The Andalusians know very well what the educational reality we have; the Andalusians of that bench also know it, much better than the rest because they are authors of it, they are part of the model to which they turn their backs and criticize. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Really, after thirty-seven years of ruling, don't you Andalusian socialists think of doing anything about it? Do you think you'll shut up and put your head down like you did on other occasions? To me, honestly, I'd be so ashamed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u34	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate where the PSOE is more comfortable than talking about education. We have been defending in Spain for over a hundred and forty years that education is the only tool that makes us more free and equal. And we have been insisting for decades that education in the early years is crucial for the development of students, but also for collective advancement as a community. Ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to debate the consideration of this proposal for a law, a proposal for a law which, in fact, prompted the PSOE of Andalusia and which did so, as always, since the conviction of the need to defend education from 0 to 3 years because it is at an early age, ladies and gentlemen, when the difficulties that determine the future of our children, our girls and also our community are detected. We have overcome - it seemed, until I have listened to Mr Robles - that they are not nurseries, that they are schools, Mr Robles; that they are not kindergartens. [[Applauds]] Less than a year ago we adopted the Lomlou - yes, the socialists are proud of the Lomlou - and we did not expect any positive recognition today from the right, but that law reflects the commitment to provide a plan for child education and meet the demands we are talking about today. As we have very clearly what we want, ladies and gentlemen, and as we also defend it, the Socialist Group remains in this spirit, in the spirit of processing this law in order to improve in the last end. I will tell you one thing: we are very proud of what we have done in Andalusia, of the model with which we have met the needs at that educational stage and of the qualitative leap that we have made with a reality that you know is complex in my land, by territory and by population. In Andalusia, thanks to the PSOE, we have been working towards the goal of universalizing 0 to 3 since 2002, when we started to implement not only with arguments, but also with budget, our plan to support Andalusian families. It has been done in a way that guarantees equal opportunities and thus universal access to this service. With contributions - it has been said here - of contributions by families according to their income, Mrs Redondo; at approximately 40% the service comes free of charge and the other 40% only contributes 25% of the cost of the square. This with quotas and admission regulations that are equal either for centres owning the Andalusian Junta or for agreed centers. The Andalusian administration, ladies and gentlemen, contributes almost 80% of the cost of space in agreed centres and one hundred per cent, as it cannot otherwise be, to the public. We made it possible for all Andalusian families, at the socio-economic level, to have access to this education in Andalusia and we encouraged the creation of first-cycle children's schools, mostly cooperatives or small non-profit societies, with mostly female employment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that has been done by the PSOE; let's see what you leave. We have 10,000 women working and 2143 centers in Andalusia arranged, with those of Gema, like those of Maria Isabel, like those of Rachel. We still have a lot to do because we only serve 47%. The PSOE has the height to recognize where we're going from. We know that, although there are places not covered, it is because there are families who cannot bear the cost of the square - we have to say everything - that is why it is necessary to continue in the defense of the extension from the public and not to divert the debate. That is where the PSOE is going to demand that the government not hide, because the autonomous communities have competences and also have to do things and make decisions. In this case, we are waiting to see what decisions you make. And, look, don't stay in the easy way, listen to the spokesman who came from the Andalusian Parliament, don't stay in the confrontation, help find the solution. Therefore, the PSOE is listening to the sector and families in that quest for gratuitousness. There are many things that can be done, but of course they are not done by renouncing the funds that come from the State without seeking any other solution. [[Applauds]] It must be remembered here, you are Lomce, the educational law with less consensus of this country and where you made clear your proposal for this stage of education: the care character of education from 0 to 3 years. We are Lomloe, so we support this proposal for a law: to move towards a public and sustained offer with public funds. I'm saying this so we don't get fooled. Madam United Spokesman We can, we'll be vigilant and a lot. I'm telling you the reason. We know what you're thinking and how you're running a tupid veil in this kind of debate. When a president like Juanma Moreno entrusts education to a citizen councilor who owns a large private educational corporation, such as Mr.Imbroda's - it seems that he has sold it - everyone understands why we are going to be alert. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to address from this rostrum all the women working in the Network of Children's Schools in Andalusia and I want to address the private sector. Do not be confused with the threat, with the demagogy of some speeches on the right when they say that the PSOE is a danger for those who fight daily in your businesses, with many difficulties - and we know it - to give the best service to our children, but also to us as an autonomous community. It is false, we have always trusted and defended the entrepreneurial initiative in our country. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in the PSOE we make it clear: what is paid with public money responds as a public. There's the PSOE and there it will always be. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u37	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Republican, Plural, Euskal Herria Bildu and Mixto parliamentary groups, guaranteeing the right to decent and adequate housing. For the presentation of the initiative, by the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà intervenes. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, remain silent, please, and whoever is going to evict the Chamber quickly. Thank you. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was told by fellow citizens, who were going to listen to me very carefully. Well, all right, let's all do it, please, because this afternoon I have the pleasure, I have the honour to present a proposal for a law on the right to decent and adequate housing that we haven't written in Esquerra or they haven't written in Bildu or they haven't written in the CUP. None of the parties that present this rule have written it with a fist and letter, but it is a proposal to exit civil society, exit of trade unions, exit of organizations, exit of associations of people who have suffered in their own flesh the problem of evictions and the problem of over-indebtedness linked to mortgages and who, therefore, speak firsthand. It is a very interesting and very valuable example of cooperation, of collaboration between different social actors who have been able to agree and do what continually fills our mouths: participation, citizens must participate. Well, they're taking part today. They came to the parliamentary groups, proposed their rule, their legislation to deal with the disaster that is housing today in the Spanish State and we listened to them and brought them to this Chamber. There are a lot of entities that are part of the platform, but I think some need to quote them. It is the No one without Home Movement, because thanks to them it is also incorporated in this regulation what is called synhogarism, which, personally, I think is a concept that, apart from having to disappear from our streets, makes them a category. And no, they are people who live on the street or in very temporary public residential agencies because they have nowhere to live. It has also been done by the people of the PAH - we have known them for a long time -, those who suffered that horrific crisis of 2008 that we still drag, those who suffered the financial disaster of the subprime, those who were left homeless because they were unable to face the payments of their mortgage. It is also done by the Union of Tenants and Tenants. It is also done by the Third Social Sector's Taula d'entitats. It's done by the Workers' Commissions. UGT does it. It's done by the DESC Observatory. The CGT does. It is done by the Coordinator of Workers' and Workers' Assemblies in Catalonia. It is done by the State Coordinator in defense of the public pension system. What do they all have in common? They are not lobbies of economic pressure, they are not rich; they are defending the interests of most of this society and see it through very different prisms: through leasing, through mortgages, through homeless people, through what is the third sector. Therefore, it is the first distinguishing note of this legislation that we bring with us today, and I very much appreciate the work of these entities and - do not be misled - of their members and the magnificent jurists who have drawn up this law. Because I do not want to hear, please, in this House that there is a lack of rigour not to vote in favour of this proposal. It is well structured, well documented; it affects the Mortgage Law; it affects the Procedural Law; it affects the Clothing Law; it affects some areas of the Urban Law and they know perfectly well what kind of proposals they make to us. [[Applauds]] This leads us to a second reflection. You come out of this Chamber - I give it to you - but sometimes the data, and in this case the ones I'm going to give you are official, we stay as if they were black fly paws on white papers. In 2013, evictions for mortgage default, 25,811; for rent default, 38,141. In 2014, by mortgage, 28,877; by rental, 36,044. The headings of 'others' have been removed. I can tell you 2015, 2016, 2017. In 2020 they stop because the social shield did not serve anything, but for some evictions, but the figures are: for mortgage default, 4256; for rent default, 13,099, with a total since 2013 - we talk about eight or nine years - of 466,279 families who have been deprived of their usual home, their first home. If these figures are not to achieve a legislative transformation that is oriented towards a different paradigm than there is so far, come and tell me what number we have to bring them. 47 million on the street, minus the 200,000 that the entire real estate park has? Are those the numbers you want? Because we're going straight to them. [[The lady]] Some more comment that seems relevant to me. This is not a housing law, nor is it an urban law; it is a law guaranteeing the right to decent and adequate housing and therefore constitutes it as a subjective right, in line with what are the rights DESC, which are the updating of human rights: economic, social and cultural rights. I suppose you're aware of it and of what it means. But ten minutes ago you were talking about education. All right, from 0 to 2 years, free, universal, but before you can school that child must live somewhere. And the families that have been evicted have girls, have children, some are pensioners and there are vulnerable groups, but then there is a large mass also that are normal people, absolutely normal, that are people who are not in a vulnerable situation, simply their economic situation has changed and the forecasts they made, the projection they made of their biography cannot be fulfilled by economic issues that cannot be traced to them. We are trying to break up, because the State must do so, with the idea subsumed in many speeches that if life doesn't work economically it's your fault, that if you don't have all the guarantees of a home, of supplies, of education, of clothes, of clothes it's your fault and it's your failure. And that's not true, it's a social failure. Who is this law addressed to? Who can, in any way, guarantee the right? All of us and all of us. We are not talking about a minority of people; we are talking about the common mortals. Soon we will have the turn against and you will be told that this is an attack on private property that cannot be endured. Moreover, you are going to convince them that this law is intended to ensure that the Okupas occupy all the houses, of you and of the people who are seeing us, when you are going to buy the bread or accompany the children to school and that, in addition to protecting the Okupas, the people who have a flat and a second residence will also be taken away by the State. I'm telling you, it's a lie. The Act provides for a procedural system to be made available to the public, or to the large holders, for equivalent accommodation. That is what it foresees; it does not provide for the expropriation of people who have one floor, two floors, three floors or four floors. What he is trying to stop is that this fundamental right, which is access to housing, becomes, as it is so far, a market asset that only serves profit and enrichment, because, if we do not change the basis of the social contract, we will leave 90% of the people out. This law can affect big forks, vulture funds, financial institutions, yes. It is they, and especially those who have been rescued with public funds, who must return all that to those who paid it through taxes, indeed, and that is not an attack on private property. That's just common sense. It is the big forks that are somehow stopping the normal logic of what they say works so well that it is the market, because it is false. We went from a good that had to protect the rights that without it could not exist - the right to privacy, the right to family, the right to health, the right to education - to that it would become a good that could be alienated, sold, speculated with it, because it is an investment fund. We have to stop this completely and there goes my question. This proposal is presented by a few groups. One of them took off today from the firm. He asked the government group: do you agree with the economic and social approaches that involve halting evictions immediately? Do you agree that the right to housing is a prerequisite and indispensable for the creation of a decent life in society? Do you agree that the funds that went to private entities and those with which those housing funds were made have served so that they cannot be accessed at a reasonable price in tense areas? Do you agree with that? Then you must vote yes. I'm done with a couple of considerations. This in Catalonia we already did in relation to the containment of rental rents. Obviously, it's in the Constitution and they're not going to let us apply it, it's not going to happen if a community can self-regulate. We believe that this law gives us the possibility that our own civil rights can be developed...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u39	Mrs. Vallugera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u40	It ended immediately. He said they could develop their own legislation. We're going to do it sooner or later, we're going to do it, but it would be better if the good ideas that the entities also recognize us be able to adopt them and not just for Catalonia, because we are very supportive...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u42	...but for everyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u43	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's talk about housing. Today just two months ago, in this very rostrum, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros fired a good Member of Parliament, Alberto Rodríguez. Two months later, the Supreme Court ratified the sentence of Mr. Espinosa dellos Monteros for not paying part of the works of his luxurious four-storey, four-storey, 542-square-metre case, with elevator, gym, garage and swimming pool with solarium, which they occupied, with k - with k -, without a municipal license. [[applause]] It's the caviar far right; the caviar far right. I would like it to be consistent with your own words and voluntarily leave your seat, because it would be fair, wouldn't it, Mr Espinosa? They condemn him, resign and leave. What you asked for. [[Applauds]] Today, five parliamentary groups present this proposal for a law guaranteeing the right to decent and adequate housing. What do you think Mr Espinosa de los Monteros will vote for? What do you think VOX will vote for? What do you think PabloMarsado will vote for? What do you think the People's Party will vote for? Against, of course. Does anyone think they are in the least interest in complying with article 47 of the Constitution?: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent housing.... The public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules to make this right effective...'. Of course they don't care. Mr. Almeida, current spokesman for the PP and Mayor of Madrid, has already said so. They asked: What do you plan to do to regulate rents? And, with total defachation, he said: Nothing. As a famous MP here in this Congress said: Fuck you. A deputy from the PP, of good family - of good family - said so in this very House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u45	Mr. Baldoví, please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u46	Excuse me. Okay, I'm focused. [[Rumors]] They will do nothing to regulate the price of rent, they will do nothing to prevent evictions. They and they, the right, already know who they represent. They vote against raising the interprofessional minimum wage, they vote against tying the rise from pensions to inflation, and then they want people to have housing. They do not want to know anything about legislation to prevent evictions from families at risk of exclusion. They could do it when they had absolute majority, and they didn't do anything. They could legislate to avoid the over-indebtedness of the families, to regulate the pay-off, so that the only housing could not be seized from the parents who endorsed the children, and they did nothing, nothing, nothing. What Mr Almeida said, the right wing with these issues is going to do absolutely nothing. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u48	I appeal to Article 72 in relation to Article 71 for references by Mr de Compromís. Simply to clarify that the house does not have four floors; it has five, five. Thank you. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u49	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u50	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. Today, different political forces defend a law that is not ours; it is a law that is elaborated by more than 120 social organizations, including the Tenants Union or the Mortgage Platform, who should be thanked that during the hardest years of the previous and current crisis they have been next to those who needed it most, sometimes supplying the work that the institutions did not do, sometimes reaching where the public authorities could not reach. We must thank these organizations that registered, that work, that drafted this bill and we must also thank all the parliamentary groups that today join their voices to bring it to this Congress. I do not know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the last time you looked for a rental apartment, anxiety, lightless floors, abuse, real gold-priced slugs, abusive conditions, anguish at not finding anything to fit your budget. That's what it's about; that's exactly what this law is about. In Spain - the source is BBVA -, in 2019 65% of young people between the ages of 16 and 34 could not yet be emancipated and that clearly affects the chances of forming a life, of being calm, of having a vital horizon. Young people of these ages have to devote about 93% of their wages to rent and that has turned access to housing into a real calvary for those who do not inherit it, has turned the real estate market into a real jungle that causes a lot of pain and many difficulties for most citizens in our country and the public authorities have so far not been up to it. That the real estate market has worked badly, that it is working badly and that it has become a disaster has forced people to look for chestnuts as they can; it has forced people to defend themselves. A few weeks ago in Madrid, 1800 people joined the tenants' union and defended their interests against the vulture Blackstone fund. Blackstone received almost at gift price 1800 houses that Mrs. Ana Botella gave him and, according to them, the first thing he did was pass the rents from 400 to 900 euros. The tenants joined, planted, refused to pay abusive rents and won. They sat down Blackstone to negotiate and today enjoy more tranquility and decent rents. That shows two things. First, that uniting and defending is useful, it is effective; that one is not free when he is alone, but when he is safe and safe when he is with many and with many. And secondly, it shows that citizenship in Spain to have access to the right to housing has to do heroics. The public authorities cannot ask people to be everyday heroes and heroes; they have to ensure that they can be citizens and citizens with rights. It is clear that in Spain the real estate market is not working. I do not think the Members of the right are going to say that the real estate market is working well. The real estate market causes a lot of pain, leaves many people out of citizenship rights and complicates most people who can have a vital project or form a family, but this is also an economic problem. The real estate market and speculation are ate wages in our country and detract money from consumption and the real economy. The real estate market attracts investment from the productive economy and devotes it exclusively to the speculative economy and the rent economy. And the real estate market, as it is, favors us being a country of renters instead of a country with its own industry, with industrialization and with employment generation and high added value. All the political formations interested in the industrial transformation of our country and in modernization should know that for this we must first let go of the ballast of power, the immense power that accumulates in Spain the real estate and rent bloc, which is a ballast for industrialization, for economic modernization and for prosperity in our country. When we say this, there are many people who tell us that what is needed in Spain is to further liberalize the real estate market, which has not been done enough. That is what the People's Party said, which in 1996 promoted José María Aznar's Soil Law, basically with the philosophy of the more houses being built, the lower the price. Well, it's a lie. The more houses have been built, the more we have fattened a bubble that after that we have had to pay all and all, there have been more evictions and the prices of housing have not stopped rising, the wages of the workers have not stopped eating more and more. And today we are in a situation where in Spain of every five houses sold only one is destined to be a home. This means that only one is intended to be used for housing and the rest are intended to be used for speculation and price inflation. This distorts the market and, as it distorts the market, leaves the right to housing on wet paper. There are no deregulated markets. Only teens who have a snake in the Twitter logo say similar nonsense. There are no deregulated markets. The housing market in Spain is not deregulated, it is regulated in favour of the renters, and what we need is exactly a regulation that balances the balance and regulates it in the service of the interests of the citizenry. When you, the right-wing gentlemen, say that we have to liberalize the market, what you are actually saying is that we have to increase regulation in favour of those who have more, because, in fact, you, if you could, would dispense with almost all the laws so that it would only govern the despotic law of those who have more. We, on the other hand, agree more with Adam Smith in this, and I quote: Any exercise of the freedom of a few individuals that endangers the security of society as a whole must be restricted by law. This requires a housing law, to balance the balance, to put order and to safeguard the general interest above the speculative interests of a few. We know, who today advocate this proposal, that the Government is preparing a preliminary draft housing law, but we are presenting this proposal to strengthen it, to speed it up and to get closer to the successful regulatory models that already operate in Paris, New York or Vienna. Because we believe that the Government's preliminary draft has no tools to be effective and is again at risk of becoming a headline that generates fundamentally frustration. It does not prevent evictions for vulnerable people without housing alternatives, and the law we present, yes. It does not allow to regulate the price of housing in stressed areas for individuals who may have fifteen dwellings. This is very important, said earlier by comrade Pilar, we are not talking about the workers who have a second home, we are talking about someone who has fifteen, twenty or twenty-five homes. Some of your ladies and gentlemen are in that position and it is normal for them to vote in favour of the rentists, but the vast majority of the Spanish people need a law of regulation and control of rents. And, finally, the preliminary draft prepared by the Government is an optional law; it is a law that leaves to the autonomous communities the choice of whether or not to apply rent controls. And someone will say: well, leave it because it's not the central government's responsibility to regulate that. And then why is the Catalan rent law appealed to the Constitutional Court? To make a housing law that guarantees decent rents optional is as much as to tell all Madridns, all Andalusians, all the Batians or all the Castilians and Lions who will not have housing law even though, for example, some of their municipalities may want it. And, to top it off, this law is given, in addition to the time it takes to be in the BOE, year and a half, eighteen months, to come into force. People in Spain do not have eighteen months to continue to endure abusive rents that eat wages. Look, I've said it many times and I'm going to keep repeating what's left of the legislature, it's not enough with the fear of the right coming. The Government has to show that it is different, that in the things that really matter it does things differently and makes the working people's lives safer and quieter. They, the reactionaries, can grow with the feeling of cynicism: everything doesn't matter, everyone is the same, nothing is worth anything, distrust in politics... They feed on it as the mold of moisture.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u51	Mr. Errejon, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u52	I'm done, Madam President. You have to prove that you're different. Today is a magnificent opportunity, listen, regulate the prices of the housing and put yourself at the service of the security and the general interest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u54	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today we present the housing law that the collectives have worked and that several political groups have brought to this House, a law that arises from serious and solvent work on the part of the collectives who have been fighting for many years for decent housing, collectives who have kept the debate on living and strong housing for all this time, despite the lack of interest of the governments in moving forward on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to housing is often used as a slogan, it is carried in programmes, it is shouted at rallies, it is reflected in government programmes, it is repeated in debates and discussions and it is even reflected in the sacrosanct Constitution, yes, even in that untouchable Constitution it appears that everyone will have the right to decent housing. It repeats itself, but it is not fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to housing is not an enunciation, it is a basic right that must not only respect but ensure, and I would like to believe that this is what unites us with all the left and progressive forces of this House, which we sign and present this law and which we do not. Housing is a right, but today in the Spanish state there are more than 40,000 people living on the street. Housing is a right, but in the Spanish state there are more than four million empty dwellings, four million, according to the INE. Housing is a right, but today in the Spanish State vulture funds and banks accumulate more than half of these empty houses. Housing is a right, but in the Spanish State, only in what we have been doing for the past year, there have been more than 32,000 evictions. Housing is a right, but in most territories - also in Euskal Herria - more than 40% of the wages are allocated to housing, and if we talk about young people, 60% of the salary. The house is a right, but the owners can speculate with the rents increasing it without any limit. And housing is a right, but citizenship does not have its subjective right to claim in front of institutions. This is the raw reality, ladies and gentlemen, that housing is a supposed right, but it is not fulfilled. That is why today we present this law together with housing groups so that the right to housing is not only a written right, but a right exercised. And, yes, it is true that the Government has implemented its housing law, we know that it has cost a lot and we value it, but we must also point out that the law of the Government has major shortcomings and that it is short, that it is too short to achieve the goal. That is why we believe that this law that we are presenting today can correct and improve the law proposed by the Government. This should be the objective: to combine the two projects so that the best aspects of the two proposals are incorporated into their process and thus to be able to provide a good housing law that responds to the needs of the citizenry and incorporates the issues raised by the collectives. The promotion of rent, the regulation of abusive rents, the prohibition of evictions for people without housing alternatives, the control of vulture funds, the mobilization of empty housing, the promotion of the public park of social housing, the push and aid to emancipation for young people, the prohibition of the cutting of basic supplies, this law contains all these and more measures that must be taken into account when designing the future housing law and, if not, it will only be putting a patch and speculation will continue, housing will remain a business in which many people will remain homeless and there will be many houses without people, as many times have reminded us from the streets. I would like to focus on the ultimate objective of this law, which we believe summarizes its ambition: to guarantee the human right of access to decent, adequate and affordable housing as a basic necessity. This is the objective and not the other, so the key question to achieve this is the subjective right to housing. What does this mean? That all persons may demand, before both administrative bodies and in the courts and tribunals of the competent jurisdiction, a dignified, adequate and affordable first home or housing. We do not understand that anyone who claims to defend social justice disagrees with this goal. We believe that, in addition to being of justice, it is common sense for everyone to have a roof. Some will say that the Administration cannot be forced to secure housing for all people, that owners cannot be forced to set fair rents, that they cannot be expropriated from banks or large foreclosures, that evictions cannot be avoided if a family cannot cope with payments, or that those who have their empty homes cannot be forced to use it. Well, look, yes, it can and must be done. Because as long as a single person doesn't have a roof to live on, he's gonna have to do this and a lot more. When everyone has a decent and affordable roof where to live, then and only then, if they want, can we debate about private property, about doing business with construction, about doing business with selling and renting homes, about vulture funds, about banks, but in the meantime we don't care at all about the arguments of those who make housing a business or those who defend it. Therefore, no, we do not want to hear any more absurd words about the poor banks and the poor funds, about the supposed rights of the big forks or about the poor builders. No, we do not want to hear another word that defends housing as a Persian market, because those who speculate, those who get rich, those who trade with housing have no rights, ladies and gentlemen, because it is precisely those who trample rights. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, today we hope that you will not stand on that side. We hope that today they will react and not join the right, that they will not join those who deny rights to do business. We hope that today they will join forces with us, with Euskal Herria Bildu, with Unidad Podemos, with Esquerra Republicana, with the CUP, with the BNG, with More Country, with Compromís and with the social majority, and allow this law to move forward to comply with what citizens have been waiting and demanding for too long. In the budget negotiation, we agreed with the Government to make the social shield permanent, we succeeded in making the ban on evictions for vulnerable persons a right acquired by law on a permanent basis. It is very good news and great progress, yes, but we are aware that this is not enough, that there are still evictions, that this social shield must be expanded and that the grounds for banning evictions must be extended to reach all cases without housing alternatives. That is why we also support this law, because although progress is gradually being made, new rights are being acquired, we are aware that this is not yet enough. That is what we also ask the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE: that they recognize that their law has much to improve, that they do not use the excuse that this law clashs frontally with that of the government, because it is simply not true. This law comes to bring, not to confront; it comes to enrich and improve, not to pervert. That is why we ask them to be permeable to the needs of the citizenry and to have the political will to pass the best possible law. Today we hope that this law can be dealt with and, through its joint handling with the law proposed by the Government, we can have legal regulations that will finally guarantee and guarantee the right to decent housing for all people. If the lack of political will does not allow this law to be dealt with, there is no doubt that all the groups we sign this law will use our joint force to introduce through amendments the measures we believe should be reflected in the future final law. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, we hope that today you will choose the right path, that of common work and agreement, because sooner rather than later there will be housing law and I assure you that we will put all our negotiating force in order for this law to include the issues we raise today. Finally, I would like to thank all the collectives who have worked this law for their work and their constant struggle in the streets and also in the institutions. Thanks to this tireless work in Euskal Herria for years we have had our own housing laws. Thanks to the work and pressure of social groups, we were able to pass our own housing laws, which were a great step forward for our society. This law, to which we hope today to give way, will offer us new and better tools to further advance in the defence of the right to decent housing also in our country, from scrupulous respect to the basis of our own laws, but with all determination to improve and expand them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that we will all act responsibly and realize what should never have ceased to be, the right to decent housing. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u56	Thank you, President. As the previous speakers have pointed out, this law, which comes from the housing movement, has as its central objective the conversion of the right to housing into a subjective right, an issue that should be fundamental in any country, in any State that wants to be democratic. However, it is not. We have been through more than a decade of a bestial rise in evictions because of the economic crisis. People who lose their jobs, on top of a situation in which housing prices rise, stop being able to pay for housing, and if we add to that the laws that have expedited evictions - one passed in 2009 with the PSOE government and another in 2013 with the PP government -, we get the current picture. With data from Catalonia, evictions have increased by 300% since 2008. Then there were about 4000 evictions annually, peaked in 2013 at 16,000 evictions in that year, and since then it has never dropped the figure of 12,000 evictions per year. These are some cold figures that remain said here, and then so many others will be said that will seem an irrelevant question, but behind each of these people, of each of these evictions there are very dramatic stories. All the people who are here today or who listen to us, with a minimum of empathy, can understand what it is that they throw you out of your house, that you have to take your belongings quickly and running, that you have to get out of a place that you have made your own, a place where you have lived and been with your own, and above without the hope of being able to find soon another place to settle. This, ladies and gentlemen, is violence; it is violence that is not spoken of, it is violence that we have normalized, that you are thrown out of the house for not being able to pay for it is violence. It is normal that it cannot be paid in a state like Spanish, which has a minimum wage that does not reach 1000 euros while the average rents are between 700 and 900 euros - I speak of figures from Catalonia, since the average rent is 700 euros, but in the city of Barcelona is 900 euros -; it is normal that working class people cannot pay the housing. The other side of this increase in the price of housing is the increase in occupied houses and premises. If we talk about dramatic stories, behind all these evictions and problems with housing is that of about fifteen days ago of four people who lost their lives in a fire in an occupied place, and besides two of them were minors, a baby who didn't even reach the year and another three years old. This is the drama of not being able to have a house. And all this happens in a society with brutal contrasts with the money that was rescued, for example, to the banks, because between 60,000 and 80 billion euros were destined to rescue the banks. It also contrasts, for example, with the number of new empty floors for opening-digits in Catalonia as well - more than 75,000 empty floors in Catalonia for opening. Therefore, there is money, there is housing and what is missing is a political will to turn the right to housing into a reality. But for that it is necessary, yes, to face the bank and face the interests of the big real estate companies. However, the government has renounced public housing policies and the best example is in the bad bank, Sareb, because the toxic assets of the rest of the banks have remained and then sold them at a balance price to investment funds such as Blackstone or Cerberus; that is, an operation in which the state loses money and in which these investment funds earn property to continue raising the price and to continue speculating. As long as this looting of the public is perpetuated - because it has no other name, it is a looting of the public what has happened with the Sareb -, not even rents are regulated. Because the law that the government offers us as an alternative to what we are discussing today has nothing to do with what the movement expects, and that is why they used very harsh adjectives against this law. It was said that it was a mockery and that it was a deep disappointment with the objectives of the housing movement. The law offered to us by the Government, first of all, falls far short, for example, of the Catalan law on rental regulation. In this way the government becomes the legislator of the hortelano, that is, neither law nor let the Parliament of Catalonia legislate, since they have filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court against our law. Secondly, the law of the government is a law designed rather to not bother the owners too much, so the bulk of the law are incentives to see if people are a little encouraged to take their home out to the rental park, when with respect to the people who have six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more dwellings, rather than giving them encouragement what needs to be said: distribute a little because there are people on the street; you don't need six or seven dwellings, just like you don't need five floors, I understand, but good. The law is designed rather to stimulate the owner. And thirdly, it is a law that will be applied very little by the very way in which tensioned areas are defined. Even so, this law that the government wants to introduce is the reason why today the PSOE votes against to admit to process this law that, however, looks a lot like one to which they voted in favor of its admission to process at the end of 2018, the only thing is that as the legislature ended, that law fell. However, the tireless housing movement has brought this law back to Congress, with more than nine thousand entities behind it, in a process that reminds me of the one that led me in Catalonia to pass Law 24/2015 with a strong popular push that made it unanimously adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia. But, yes, it was later partially appealed and suspended by the Constitution. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u58	Thank you, President. It also recalls this process to Decree-Law 17/2019, which was also suspended by the Constitutional and Decree-Law 11/2020, approved just over a year ago, for the regulation of rent, in which This popular push, led by the movement for housing, but with 4,000 Catalan entities behind, got the regulation of rents voted by Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra, CUP and En Comú Pomera. Catalonia has full competence in housing and has exercised it thanks to the push of the popular movement, but the Spanish governments, of all colors, have been bringing our laws to the Constitutional, preventing or delaying the effects of laws that would tackle a very serious problem of the working class such as access to housing. Well, even if today's law doesn't prosper, nothing ends here. That is why, in the last few minutes, I want to address various forces that have in their hands the possibility of making important changes in housing. To the government of the PSOE and the United Nations We want to demand that they withdraw the appeal against the Catalan law on the regulation of rents, against the Law 11/2020. I also want to add a message especially thinking about the PSC and the PSOE... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u59	Excuse me, one second, Mr. Botran. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u60	I want to give a message to the PSC and the PSOE: stop saying that fallacy that independence is right-wing and that the CUP ends up agreeing with the right. Look, this is an insult to intelligence. The independent majority of Catalonia, together with Unidad Podemos, is the one that approved the regulation of the rent, and it is a government that is called progressive - well, in this case also with Unidad Podemos, here we have to clarify a little - the one that resorts to the Catalan law of regulation of the rent to the Constitutional Court. Worse still, to bring down today this proposal, which comes from the street with nine thousand entities and which will tackle a fundamental problem for the working class, the PSOE will vote with the united right-wing against the housing movement. Two more messages, also thinking about Catalonia. The first to Esquerra Republicana, the holder of the Conselleria d'Interior: the Mossos must stop participating in the evictions. We signed it with you in the investiture agreement and this has to stop happening. There are formulas for this to happen and it has to be in line with what we have come here to defend today. And the second to Junts per Catalunya: that they withdraw the amendments to the law of housing emergency, also in full consistency with what the movement for housing asks of us, which today has managed to gather together a set of forces to bring here the right to housing and make it a subjective right. I'm on my way. Democracy means the power of the people, and if parliaments and governments cannot guarantee a right as basic as having a roof, call it otherwise, but this is not a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u61	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Zurita Exposito.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u62	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know if you have any clarity, but I and our parliamentary group would like to know what this bill stands for, what it stands for in this it brings and carries that you have. The truth is that, ladies and gentlemen of the left, some of you have been very vehemently, especially your lordship of Esquerra, but I am sure that many of you have not even read this law. I can tell you that I am, that we are, and that we have also worked with the PAH, because this text is not the first time it comes to Congress. We have analyzed three similar texts and none of them has come out, and you have come here from the hand of Podemos, who now leave you all lying down and above you save his face. [[Applauds]] The truth is that we are seeing very strange things in this House. This morning we saw how it was introduced by the PSOE and by Podemos a modification of the working conditions in the Spanish ports, of the estiba, in the bill of the vulnerable consumer, in that same bill where you also legalized the okupation. It's just this looks like a crazy house. And this text we discussed today, what is it? Were the amendments of the Podemos and the rest of the left to the housing law that they say you will bring next week? Because now it seems that they are no longer Podemos, but nothing more than the rest of the partners. This is very difficult to understand and the only explanation you have is that you already form a group of government and partners in absolute decomposition, which do not agree or trust each other. Imagine what people think if already with the text of the housing law, the one signed by Mrs Belarra and Mrs Sánchez, there is a unanimous complaint of legal insecurity for the attack that represents private property and constitutional rights, imagine with these two texts circulating around. You socialists, what are you going to do? Are you going to abstain to look good? Are they going to throw the stone and hide their hand, as they did with the Catalan Housing Act that resorted to the Constitutional, but then they did not ask for suspension so as not to bother their partners? So think that, although we can value the chair of the Council of Ministers more, it is the rest of its partners who are signing this law. This attitude is much more dangerous to the interests of the Spaniards than that of Podemos, because they are seen by the plumer - they are communists and anti-constitutionalists - but you move in constant deception and succumb to anything. From our parliamentary group they already know that, firm whoever signs, they have a no like a house, and moreover, double for two reasons: firstly, because of the content: interventionism, propaganda, attacks on the rule of law, and secondly, because of the legal uncertainty that this generates, and no longer because of the very determinations of this law, which are mostly recourse to the Constitutional Court, but because of the fact that it involves having two housing laws in circulation, which also compete for who penalizes the most to have a property owned or to be a tenant of houses. I'll give you an example: the figure of the big fork. In the Government's preliminary draft, a large fork is a natural or legal person who owned ten dwellings or 1,500 square metres of land between their properties. However, in this law that we are debating today - the proposal of all groups on the left for free, now Podemos has also been unmarried - a great fork is that it has five dwellings or 800 square meters in all of its properties. Were those the amendments that you intended to put before yourselves, the disagreements that Mrs Belarus has been announcing all week long? Or did Mrs. Díaz come back from Rome and call them to order? Look, measures like these are proposed by government partners. Let's mention some: social rental is an income that guarantees that the payment of the rent does not exceed 10% of the tenant's salary, wherever the property is and is in the conditions that it is; the okupation is consolidated as a form of access to the housing; an okupa that is declared insolvent exists the obligation to seek a social rental; empty housing is defined in order to penalize its situation; social rental, even the okupa, is protected for seven years and the landlord must bear all the expenses inherent to the housing in these cases. Here there is a common denominator and it is that the Administration assumes no responsibility at all, it is the owners of the houses who have all the obligations. That is the housing policy offered by the left of this country and which is clearly defined in this document that is registered in Congress. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the process of that housing law that PSOE is going to bring to this House is to be feared, as has already been announced by all the groups that have preceded me. Although what the press announces is softer than that, insecurity is enormous because that's what the partners want; that's what they want, in addition, Pedro Sánchez and Yolanda Díaz for the Spanish. Worst of all, we already know what they're capable of doing to stay in the Moncloa. To whom do all the determinations of this law affect? The message is that banks, vulture funds. No, sir, this affects 96% of the rental market that is in the hands of individuals and only 4% is in the hands of institutional funds and investors. Of these Socimi funds, only 8% correspond to housing. Therefore, what needs to be done is to extend the offer and give legal certainty, and not to attack those four million Spaniards who have the rent as a complement to their income or pension. This law is a clear and direct attack on private property. [[Applauds]] You were right when I said it. Yes, it is a clear and direct attack on private property and we will not tire of repeating it. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, we will not tire of repeating this because, moreover, we do not like this law, we do not like it. This is on the way to intervention... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u64	... of the free market, to the 2.3 million rental houses that have been created in the last 15 years, but with private savings; with private savings, because the administrations have not made homes to rent. You know that, and we would like to convince the promoters of this law that there are other solutions, which we have already adopted in the periods we have governed and which we have launched since 2011, with which we guarantee the real right to housing, which paralyze evictions and which assimilated the percentage of rent to the percentage of European countries. Thousands of homes were rehabilitated throughout Spain with our housing plans, with our Law on Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal, with our Law on Soil, promoted by our minister, Ana Pastor. Our premises are: in the face of interventionism, the free market economy; in the face of propaganda and rigour, serious proposals; and in the face of attacks on the rule of law, the defence of our Constitution and our fundamental values. Now the solution has to go to the root of the problem, not to solutions like this. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is summed up in two concepts: shortage of supply and lack of legal certainty. There is no housing and there is no legal certainty, and everything that comes out of there is useless because it is ineffective. It's not a no for the no. For example, within this law there are things that may also seem good to us. You propose amendments to the Soil Law to increase the housing stock, which may seem good to us; or the issues of rehabilitation or accessibility, which may also seem good to us; or something that the Community of Madrid has already done - which you do not like to tell - which is to prohibit the sale in the market free of official protective housing in thirty years - that has already been done by the Community of Madrid - or what you call solidarity objectives... [[The honourable Member is flattered and cannot continue to speak.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u65	I've stopped time, don't worry, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pausa.-Applause.-Several ladies and gentlemen offer sweets to Mrs Zurita Exposito]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u66	Excuse me, please. I really appreciate the candy and all the other things. [[Applauds]] I really hope that this recess will help the rest of the political groups to think about what they are going to vote for in taking this bill into consideration. What remains is to list issues that were already in this text, already came in the agreement that Podemos tried to sign with the Socialist Party for the 2019 budgets, and thank God, it did not go forward. There was already control of the rents by the municipalities, was allowing illegal occupations. That was in that law, to consider that a large housing holder was a person who had more than five dwellings, 800 square meters, and the compulsory assignment of dwellings - not expropriations -, and that thanks to God did not go ahead because here, in the corridors of this House, even the PSOE said that they were not serious proposals, that they were not proposals that would solve the housing problem, and the People's Party always voted against, and even to say that Podemos also voted against it on some occasion, however, not including its proposals. We see how the Socialist Party continues to mislead the loser with the control of rental prices, continues to sell the rights of the Spaniards, and now We can also join this car for a plate of lentils in the Moncloa cooking that perpetual pact and it seems that they laugh at those who do not read the small letter. Therefore, we understand that the People's Party is the only one we are calling things by its name right now. To control rental prices is to intervene in the free market. Illegal occupation is a crime. Intervention of the lease is also intervention of the free market. The compulsory assignment of housing is also to nullify the right to property and to go against the Constitution. And our advice is that we need to reflect, we need to analyze the trajectory of the housing market. Since you and your partners arrived at the government nothing has been analyzed at all, you remain in a fixed photo. Analyse also whether the housing solution for young people is a bonus of 250 euros, while...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u67	Mrs. Zurita, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u68	...to parents fry them at taxes. What we think is that in this proposal of law only the market and private property are concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs Zurita, I listened to you carefully and took four notes of what you said. In fact, I'm going to try to answer it. The first thing - a very brief passage - is funny when it says that the five groups that we present this initiative do it to chain us to the chair and that we like the seat. I understand that you sit in a camping chair and charge in sacks of rice. The initiatives that you and your parliamentary group are presenting have no political connotation whatsoever. You do it because you are an NGO, not a political party. [[Applauds]] Beyond that, it has surprised me that you call all this attack - it is literal - a law of right to housing in a country with three million empty homes and almost 30,000 evictions during the pandemic. You have said that this law is an attack on constitutional rights - literal. You said this law is against the Constitution. He also said that we are unconstitutionalists. And, in fact, he ended up saying it was an attack on the rule of law. Look - surely you know better than I do, because for some of you it is a Bible - this is the Spanish Constitution. [[Shows a copy of the Constitution]] Comrade Baldoví has already commented. It has 169 articles. Some are quite anachronistic. The others are beautiful. You, of these 169 articles, only like one, article 2, which speaks of the indissoluble Spanish nation; a little what you carry on the wrist and on the masks, the flag. [[Protests]] But there is a beautiful one, which is article 47. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u72	It says: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right...'. Now comes the best part: '... regulating land use, according to the general interest, to prevent speculation'. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this country, in any country, in any full democracy above anyone's right to be enriched with ten homes should be the right of ten families to have decent housing. And if you come here today together - and it hurts enormously to say it - from the hand of that cowardly left to say that this is not valid and that this is unconstitutional is simply because you stand on the side of the great owners, and not on the side of the families. One last reflection, which seems important to me, and I am addressing the working class, to which VOX's speech may sound good at some point. [[Protests]] Here Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has mocked. Espinosa de los Monteros has what it has, what has been published has been published and is believed to be immune. The spoiler is immune, he is, and he's emboldened. He said that his house, of which he did not pay for the works, has not only four floors, but five. All right, cooler than an eight. I address the working class to which that sounds good: If you are a son or a working-class daughter and Espinosa de los Monteros has five floors in his house and you struggle to pay the rent of the miserable apartment and you vote the same, who is wrong? Him or you? [[Several Members: You! You!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u74	Probably you. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros asks for the floor.]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, it is true that you have been mentioned, but there is no offensive allusion. [[Protests]] Reference has been made to something you yourself said in the Chamber. Mr Baldoví has the floor. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. [[Protests Continue]] Mr. Sánchez del Real, don't make me call you to order, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u76	Thank you very much, President. I see the caviar far right has a very fine epidermis. They say what they want, but when they beat them, they don't like it. [[Protests.-Applause.]] In any case, Mr Espinosa, I apologize, I had forgotten about the attic. You're right: I didn't have four floors, I had five. I'm so sorry. We already knew what the PP was going to do, of course. They are neither interested in preventing evictions nor in regulating payment or in regulating rents. But this law has other things, such as increasing the public park of social housing. And what did the right in Madrid, the PP? Selling 3,000 housing units of public social housing. Who? The ones who needed it? No, a vulture bottom. By the way, the Madrid High Court of Justice has already said that this sale was illegal. But it is also that the right is able to have - and this law wants to regulate that - access to basic resources: water, light, heating and sanitation. And the right of Madrid has a thousand children of the Royal Cañada without light. That doesn't concern you to the right. Thanks to this civil society initiative, which goes up from bottom to top, thank you. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you will have to choose which side you are on. They only have to vote yes so that it can be processed; not to approve, to discuss the real problems of people. That is why we ask them to be brave and bold and to leave prudence for another time. People will thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u78	Thank you. Madam Member of the People's Party, I wish you a better voice and a better throat. And that's where our deals come in. Today in Spain there is already a continuous threat to legal certainty, it is given permanently. There are people who, after all their lives working, have many difficulties in getting older in their neighborhood; they drive them out of their neighborhood for the swollen prices, and that threatens their tranquility and legal security. There are people they drive out of the house, and after losing the house, they have a debt to the bank; and that threatens their tranquility and legal security. And there are people who have the right to social housing, that social housing is given to a vulture fund and the vulture fund the first thing it does is multiply the prices by two, and sometimes it has the possibility of living in that house at risk. That's legal insecurity and that's an attack on private property, Mrs. Popular Party Member, on the private property of people who spill their backs to be able to work and can't even access a rental. But that legal insecurity does not concern you because that legal insecurity is the legal insecurity of the poor, which you don't care about. And it's a threat to private property, it's the threat to private property by which a few speculators can prevent most people from having access to a home. But, as poor as they are, in that case you don't care. And what's the recipe? It's just that you propose a recipe as if it were new, as if we hadn't put it into practice. The recipe is that we have to increase the supply of housing, despite the fact that we have three million empty houses, even though Tecnocasa, a well-known soviet, says that 10% of the real estate park in Spain is empty; although I have just given it a figure, which is from the IBI, the Ministry of Development, which says that in Spain, of every five houses sold, four are to speculate. And what you're telling me is that we need to produce more housing. In fact, the production of more houses, without measures, to control the hoarding of houses and use them as goods, rather than as a use property, all it entails is to fatten further the benefits of speculators and continue to worsen the legal certainty and the possibility of access to private property of Spanish workers. Your prescription's broken. The only possible recipe is that of rental control. In the face of rottenness, in the face of insult, in the face of shouting and bravuconadas, in the face of the attempt to morally rot the confidence of the Spanish people in their institutions, there is only one recipe: to advance in the security of rights and to transform a profoundly unjust scheme that gives the building block a veto capacity in Spanish economic policies and policies that is a burden on our modernization. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have the floor, Mr. Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u80	Thank you, President. Mrs Zurita, spokesman for the People's Group, just a couple of comments. You have made a very partisan defense of neoliberal ideology, for which intervention in the market is a mistake, but we cannot agree with that. And neither are you, that is, you are not against public intervention in the private market. And before I set an example: you rescued the bank, you injected between 60,000 and 80 billion - in principle, as a loan, but it is clear that you are not going to return it - in a private business, and you also helped it with the purchase of toxic assets, which have then been sold at a balance price to private individuals, who have benefited from the injection of public money in a market that, in theory, would be self-regulated, in which the one who doesn't get well falls, etc. That's a lie. You are against intervention in the market if it is to help those below; if it is to help yours, those who are already powerful, to rescue them, to make a leap but always know that below there is a network, if it is for that, then you are in favour of public intervention in the private sphere. On the other issue, private property, I also deny you the greatest. It is not sacred; it is so in terms of the minimums for the person's own use, so that a citizen has the minimums, but when someone is using private property to take over, to raise prices, to profit from a basic good while there are people on the street, that has to have limits. Private property has to have limits, that's so clear. Have five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten homes: no one uses five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten homes or more, no one needs them. What are you gonna live, five, six, seven, eight, nine lives? That's pure speculation, that's living up rents and benefiting from rents. But as long as there are homeless people, we must also distribute private property and set limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Zurita Exposito.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u82	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, with all due respect, who do you think you're fooling? What do you want with this? I don't know if they're already in an election campaign. Do you not realize that you are partners of the government, that you have just approved budgets that have voted all, PSOE and United We can, and that this has become a market, a souk? Why didn't they ask for all that instead of asking prisoners to be released and taking away the freedom of education from the Spaniards? Before coming here with this speech and analyzing what the People's Party has done, why don't you analyze what you or your partners have done during these three years, when you have formed a lethal union for Spanish society? You have done nothing, and in housing much less. What have they done? They have approved amending the housing plan of the People's Party, which decapitalizes it and leaves it without programmes and funds, to allocate it to rent aids that do not reach those who need them. They have approved budgets that do not serve anything, that do not serve to make social housing, and with smoke funds; about 20,000 houses, that have only remained in an urbanization project in Valencia. It's all propaganda. As for their social measures, we are still waiting for those proposals to expand the social housing stock that do not involve private ownership. All this has been approved by you, all together, with the Government. But since you are the evictions for unpaid rent are costed by the owners, not by the government; they are costed by the owners of the houses, of whom you have to think they are also vulnerable, and you announce compensations that never arrive. And it must also be said that in the last year the restructuring of mortgage debt for ordinary housing has been halved. Are those the government's solutions? I bet them! But you, all of you, as spectators, spectators of a black and white movie about a world that is made up of vulture funds and families that can't afford to rent. They are not all oppressors and oppressed; ladies and gentlemen, there is white and black. Of course, there are oppressors and oppressed people, investment funds and families who have difficulty accessing a home, of course, who dares to deny it? But there are also solutions. But it is not precisely the solutions that involve the housing market and private property. Among other things, it is that there is a supply of land, cheaper land, affordable housing, that administrations do their job, and not burden small owners, who make up 95 % of the rental market. [[Applauds]] And also make regulations that will propitiate it and a housing policy without demagoguery, and more when you have been asking for the same thing for two years, and also without analyzing the market. The data on the current situation are not the same as when you arrived. We are faced with a changing phenomenon and you are late with these measures, with all kinds of measures. Where's your social shield, so announced? All this you already know, nothing is new. They intend to draw a political outcome from measures that know for sure that they will not work and that will not even be approved, because their partners will not approve them; you already know that this law will fall. And we are not going to talk about Berlin or Paris, which are its referents, where the result has been reduced supply, rising prices and housing in worse conditions, because no one rehabilitates it if the price does not compensate it. But let's go closer, to Catalonia: it is again one of the autonomous communities in which the rent price has been most expensive, it has closed the third trimester with an increase of 5.42% regarding the previous year and an average price of 1333 euros per month after applying its law of income containment. [[Applauds]] As Assar Lindbeck has said - do you know him?-, a prestigious economist - sometimes they have appointed him also in this House -, socialist and not suspected of being liberal, rent control is the second most efficient technique currently known to destroy a city. Do you know which one is the first? Bomb her! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy: in the face of interventionist measures, liberal measures; in the face of coercive measures, incentive measures; and, in the face of improvised measures, planned measures. And the second batch is ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u84	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The truth is, I've been dislocated. I had an intervention in mind, but the ones that have been presented I confess that they have removed me, first because they have made me remember not one, but up to two sayings that come to my hair. One says-and I address the group of the Government - that of the friends God frees me because of the enemies I care for myself, because this is a transcendent problem, that of reliability, that of confidence that can provoke a legislative initiative of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, let there be a group of governments that presents an alternative, even if it has then been dislocated, let there be a legislative initiative supported by those who are supposed to be the support of the government when there is a preliminary draft law adopted by the Council of Ministers, which also largely coincides with many of the purposes and initiatives proposed in this law, provokes a fundamental question: the lack of confidence no longer in the correctness of the initiative, but in the way in which it will be possible to develop. And this is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. This is not acceptable to anyone, to either of the two groups that make up the Government or to any of the proponents who are supposed to try to provoke some cohesion in the field of a specific policy, which is that of housing, too important to be subject to what we have seen here today, to an exhibition of absolutely demagogic postulates from each of the parties. They'll never find the Basque Group there. [[The Lord]] Turning to the proposal for a non-legislative proposal, there is another issue that I also wanted to highlight, which is to put the bandage before the wound. The proposers of the initiative have made an offer on what their arguments are, although, with all due respect, they have focused rather on the defence of those defects that others may find in this proposal, and not on the positive assessment of those aspects of their proposal that can serve to improve this problem of housing, that of the right to decent housing, that of the possibility of access to decent housing, that we should not forget that, according to article 47 of the Constitution, it is primarily the public authorities who place it. It was recalled by Mrs Zurita, and I agree with her in that, because it is the public authorities - and not the private individuals, who may also be involved in legislative measures to prevent speculation, as I said earlier - to which it corresponds, something that has already been done in some places - with greater or lesser accuracy, but it has been done - because what is not appropriate is what is being implemented by this legislative initiative, which is to alter the character of the competition in housing with its constitutional design, to reduce it from the state level to a competence of regulatory development and enforcement of state legislation for the autonomous communities. And that's where they'll always stumble upon our proposition. The fact is that, apart from different collateral matters - civil, mortgage, procedural - the Constitutional Court has affirmed that the limitations and duties inherent in the social function of each type of property and even the definition of its content are the responsibility of the holder of the competition, in this case of housing, which implies that the autonomous communities are legitimized to impose through rules with a legal rank the limitations on urban property intended for housing, and that happens in many autonomous statutes. In Euskadi it happens with the Basque Housing Law of 2015, to which the judgment of the Constitutional Court 97/2018, without prejudice to declaring two paragraphs as unconstitutional with the same argument that it made regarding the laws of Andalusia, Navarre, the Canary Islands and Valencia for the temporary expropriation of the use of the housing and another smaller topic, validated the precepts regarding the definition of the social function of the housing with respect to the concept of unoccupied housing, the recognition of this circumstance and the consequent administrative intervention through the instruments of preferential acquisition: administrative eviction, expropriation, forced rent, etc. And it is true that this bill deals with other issues that also affect the issue of housing and that are state competence - procedural, civil, mortgage, as I mentioned earlier - but without forgetting that Euskadi and other autonomous communities, especially Catalonia, also have competence in civil and foral law, which, however, has not allowed them to solve some of these issues or has not led them to try to solve them within their area of competence. It has surprised us that it is precisely Catalan groups that have promoted this initiative, when it is the competence of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia under its statute of autonomy and when it is its own laws that can affect it. However, they are undergoing an intervention experiment that completely relaxes these competition titles to areas of legislative development and implementation. And if we have been surprised by some Catalan groups, by Bildu's much more, and not only because he is aware of the existence of this Basque housing law, of which they have even recognized many beneficial effects, without prejudice to being able to criticize others, but also because Bildu has just proposed to the Basque Parliament the formulation of a social pact for housing whose contents coincide precisely with many of this proposed law. And also, why not say so, because he is also aware that, in line with what Mrs Aizpurua has said from this seat, there are certain rights, such as the subjective right to housing, which are recognized in Basque housing law. Do you want it to be recognized now in another state law? At another time, it was also mentioned that in some autonomous community - I think they said Madrid - it was intended to prevent the qualification of official protective housing from falling at some point. Since 2000 there has been an indefinite classification of officially protected housing and a number of other measures in the area of social rents for young people or rental housing, which we have already commented on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and apart from other competition issues and the content, with which we should also be critical, our vote is going to be against this initiative, but based above all on an assessment, and is that in Euskadi and possibly with more competences than we currently have, by virtue of a certain curtailment of those competences from the state level, we would like to be able to intervene to a greater extent in housing matters, but we do...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u85	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u86	... and to that extent also alleviate that effect. I encourage the proponents to withdraw it, because in this case, believing that they are sovereignists and autonomists many of them, they have not been respectful of that competitive element that is contained in the statutes of autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u87	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barandiaran, I will not be able to bear to say that the last time the phrase 'Lord, rid me of my friends, that of my enemies I already defend myself' was in the mouth of a gentleman who sat here, specifically on June 1, 2018. [[points to the blue bench]] Look! And I am not going to defend the People's Party in this respect, but it has come very well to remind us of what is going on with friends and enemies who vote for budgets and then vote for motions of censure. [[Applauds]] I agree with you that we've all been dislocated. Quite calm has gone this debate to be a housing debate, compared to those we have lived in this Congress on the issue of the right to housing. Quite calm and quite serene, removing some disqualification - disqualification, you have to say so. Pretty quiet has gone for what it's been like to talk about housing in this Congress. I believe that what we should do is to explain once and for all that, if we are going to do as Mr Rufián, at one point in defending the Constitution, we cannot defend some articles yes and others no, we would have to defend - moreover, he has said - what is called the systematic text of the Constitution. I advise you to enter app.congreso.es - you will all know it, but I advise you, because, moreover, there are people who are seeing us today and possibly this also serves you - and read the overview of each article, because it explains very well what the articles mean and how they are interpreted by the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, even by lawyers of this house. We could see, then, that this social reality, that there are people who do not have housing, actually, but that there are also houses that are empty because there are owners who cannot occupy them all at once, has room in the Constitution, and that this apparent conflict between the right to property and the right to a just and dignified housing is only apparent and manipulated according to who uses it. If you make a systematic reading of the constitutional text you will realize that there is also an article 53 which establishes levels of protection of rights, and that the right to private property can be defended before a court, it can be claimed before a court if the right to property is being altered or violated, but that the same is not true of the right to housing. It is simply established in the Constitution, which is a guiding principle of the social and economic policy of public administrations and must guide the action of the public administration. And what happened so that today there are people who don't have a roof to cover themselves with? For many years now, the governments that have happened in Spain have not implemented effective and coherent housing policies - at least, of course, in recent years - and this is happening. From there, the different parliamentary groups establish, according to our ideology and according to what we believe, the solutions to this issue. And there are groups, like those of today's proponents of this initiative, who believe that - this, of course, is my interpretation, because for that I am in this rostrum speaking - we must first violate the right to property, because there are people who, as has been said here, have a higher right because they do not have a roof on which to shelter. But there are others that we believe, however, that public administrations can do things, such as working with the private sector, encouraging more social housing, encouraging more private housing to be made available to those who need it, or encouraging public programmes where rent rents in certain areas could be voluntarily limited. And we have defended this here already in numerous debates; in particular Citizens have already said what their positions are. That is therefore the debate that we should certainly show society in order to take a decision on the type of housing legislation we want to carry out in this country. The second part of this debate leads us to ask ourselves what has happened. Here came a proposal signed by a number of groups that apparently would have a majority because it was a promise from the Socialist Party, but we do not know whether it is now for you, for the proponents, for Mr Baldoví, for Mrs Vallugera, for Mr Errejón and for the rest of the proponents - also for Mr Botran, forgive me, I have not mentioned - the PSOE has become liberal and Podemos has become too social democrat. Maybe that's the problem. But you, who have appealed to democracy, would have to assess what is going on, why you cannot take this proposal forward with the sufficient democratic votes of the representatives of all the Spaniards, why you cannot carry out this measure here. I believe that the fight that you have today and the frustration that you pose here today is not really with the ultra-right or with the right or with the liberals; today the fight that you have is that you are the other, the other or the other - as you want - in front of someone who has deceived you, because he has told you 'quietly, that this is an ordago that I am going to make to myself or to myself and I am going with you', but it turns out that at the last moment he has not left, he has returned home. They do know about housing policy, we can and the PSOE do know about housing policy, they know about going home, where the carpet is and where the soft and comfortable armchair is, where it really doesn't matter that you brought - I value you the legitimacy of bringing it - an initiative that, as you say, does not come from an office, from a cold office, but from civil society, from unions, from associations, from people - I value it and I find it interesting -. I think they're wrong, because I don't think that's the solution. We will perhaps agree on the diagnosis of the problem, but not on the solutions; we have others and believe they are better. The problem, as I say to you, is that you have been used for this. That's the argument. Perhaps the second part of this debate that we should be dealing with and which should be explained to them is that two or three months ago, on 30 September, there was someone who was able to sign a bill and yet on 26 October, with a preliminary bill, he had already forgotten who he was. Perhaps the Sanchez effect of multiple personality is also having an effect on Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, a few points on the agenda]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u89	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u90	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I start with the most obvious: housing is an essential good and a right, but at the same time it is an inaccessible good for many people in our country. Spain has been living in a housing emergency for more than a decade. The first question we should ask ourselves is why and how we have come to this situation, and this has much to do with the Spanish residential model, a housing-based model understood more as a business and an asset than as a commodity of first necessity or a right. This story comes from afar. In the 1960s, in the middle of Francoism, the business of building and selling homes began to take off in Spain. The aim was to create an imaginary where economic growth, prosperity and personal success were linked to the acquisition of ownership status. At the beginning of the 1980s, already in democracy, the settlement of this residential model had already been realized, most Spaniards ceased to be tenants to become happy owners and Spain began to become the paradise of brick and cement or, what is the same, in Spain of corruption and ball - you, gentlemen of the PP, know quite well about this -. At the end of the 1990s, the financial institutions' outflow into the real estate business and Mr Aznar's liberalizing policies triggered housing construction. In 2005 we built more than one million homes - more than one million homes - and, just contrary to what the neoliberal gurus had hoped, the price of housing began to rise exponentially. Still, gentlemen of the People's Party, they still have the same failed recipes. The subprime mortgage crisis occurred in October 2007 and Spain suffered a severe financial and real estate crisis in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Mrs Zurita, I draw much attention to this, and I say it more than once, that they do not devote a word to analysing the causes of this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, your policies caused the most serious financial and real estate crisis in this country and the ruin of thousands of working families, to which you also abandoned your fate while devoting billions - we know - to rescuing banks, whose greed had also caused this crisis. I wonder, gentlemen of the PP, gentlemen of the right, where they were when thousands of junk mortgages were signed with abusive clauses or when thousands of flats were priced on the letter without any control. The Banco de España should be looking elsewhere when thousands of Spanish families lost their homes and faced perpetual debts. Where were you, gentlemen of the PP? Because then, too, the Constitution was being violated. Article 47 of the Constitution, which prohibits speculation, was being violated by article 33.2 of the Constitution, which was never agreed upon and which referred to the social role of housing ownership, or article 39, which mandated the public authorities to protect the family. Carmen was one of the people who suffered her bad politics. Carmen never thought that at the age of sixty-nine she could see herself on the street after a lifetime of work. One day he received a court notice announcing that a bank was going to seize his home, a humble flat paid for before he was widowed. His only mistake was to endorse his son and his daughter, who bought a flat and lost jobs that they believed to be stable; as if from a pool of cards, their lives began to crumble. The same situation occurred throughout the country and, in the face of the inaction of the public authorities, it was organised civil society, mainly the PAH, which put the problem of evictions on the public agenda, which advised the people concerned, which stopped evictions with their bodies and forced some public responses with mobilizations. Carmen herself, like many women in precarious situations, drew courage, shook her resignation and, at the age of sixty-nine, joined the PAH assembly in her neighborhood. There he truly understood what was happening and found a space of fraternity and shared struggle. But this isn't the end of the story. The story repeats itself, the story continues, now with the rent. Private rental is beginning to be a very attractive business for large investors, for vulture funds, and Spain is a paradise. The result we already know, I am not going to stop: prices of up rentals impossible to pay for most families, abusive prices. Once again, civil society takes a step forward and organizes itself; tenants and tenants are organized to defend their rights and to demand responses to institutions. Today we are debating a housing law that is the result of the work of these organizations and many collectives. This civil society puts the problem of access to housing back on the parliamentary agenda. And my group takes good note of all those proposals. I am sure that many of them will improve the housing bill. Thank you, once again, for that tireless work. With the popular push and with the collaboration of the various parliamentary groups that support the Government, we will soon have a housing law that controls the abusive prices of rents; that prohibits evictions without housing alternatives; that regulates social ownership of housing; that places limits and obligations on investment funds; that establishes instruments to protect and increase public rental parks; that regulates payment; that responds to singularism and some other things. We have a great chance, let's take it. It's possible to change the story. Yes, you can. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u91	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, after carefully studying your housing law, I see that you are phenomena of nature, but not a rainbow in the sky - you would like it already - but erratic and catastrophic phenomena. You are a Dana, a collage of volcano that destroyed the houses in its path, especially the humblest and most helpless. [[Applauds]] You are lava, yes, and from the worst there is, you are ideological lava. But if they had it easy! All they had to do was follow the recommendations of the experts, and study the reports on the measures you want to take, which have already been shown to be absolute failures. They just had to think about social housing. Does the social word ring a bell? [[Applauds]] In Spain we have a serious problem of access to housing, and they dare to bring to this House the perfect manual of how to boost access to housing. Spain has a severe social housing deficit accumulated by the bad work of the administrations of both for many years. [[pointing to the seats on the left and right of the Chamber]] To be on the European average - only on the average, not to be champions of anything - we would need two and a half million social rental houses. And of course, the Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent home. It's a constitutional right. Article 47 is a mandate to the public authorities, but you carry those obligations to the citizens. In order for this right to be exercised, legal protection must be given to the owners, who are not the vulture funds. Do not follow the chavista tactics of criminalising owners, because 95% of the rental park is in the hands of private individuals. [[applause]] Investment in housing in Spain is part of our identity. For a long time now buying a house to rent is the Spanish pension plan, the way they find it to complement their increasingly low income. What is needed is more housing in the areas of greatest demand. More housing, lower prices and thus greater access. Don't you know the law of supply and demand? No, neither. But what questions do I ask, if they have not worked in their life, if they live from their republicans, republicans and extortion, paid everything with the money of the Spaniards. [[laughter and applause]] Its housing law is the same one that promulgated chavismo in Venezuela, and had the effect of charging 95% of the rental market in Caracas; that is a fact. Pay-as-you-go, they say. If you don't know what it is! Delivering the house has to be the last resort. Higher rates, shorter deadlines and at least 50 % of the housing price. Ask Beatriz Corredor, minister here from her partners. Under its law, only families with possible mortgages will be able to hire a mortgage. Congratulations, you have just increased the inequalities that you supposedly came to fight, and you have just called the vulture funds. [[applause]] You hate workers and middle classes and despise the private property of others. How great it is to be progress and have no idea of anything Other nonsense: they intend to create a register in which the bad practice of the tenants is denounced. [[Applauds]] And that, who decides, the tenant himself, his cousin? Spain already has a registry, the Property Registry, and agencies where bonds are deposited. No further parallel records or observatories are required to place 'kidneys' and sedious. [[Applauds]] Theirs is ideology, because they do not understand the basic laws of economy. They have drafted this law in accordance only with their mantras, in absolute disconnection from the street. They are empty measures of content and unviable because of their legal loopholes. And a lot of gender perspectives, but it turns out that 80% of homeless people are men. But why don't they ever talk about men? Why do they have so much pollution? [[Applauds]] They demonise the construction sector and pulverize collective investment. The specialized portals and recommendations of the Banco de España, credit institutions and real estate agents have not been taken into account. By the way, they have also taken it with intermediaries, who will even be banned from charging fees for their daily visiting work. And when they destroy the housing stock and there is no investment, they will send to unemployment not only architects, but also masons, plumbers, ironsmiths, electricians, carpenters and a whole construction sector, which accounts for 5.2% of the gross domestic product in Spain. I said before that you despise the working classes, but no, you don't despise them, you hate them. I could continue to dismantle one by one all the ideological savageries of this law, which go against Spain and the identity of the Spaniards, but for what? You don't even bother listening to the Bank of Spain officials. I'm going to tell you what VOX will do when it's in government, because VOX knows very well what to do, don't doubt it - read our Spanish Agenda -. We will free up all the soil that does not have special protection, all the soil that is needed, and we will seek public-private collaboration for social housing under ownership or rent with option to purchase, so that families and young people can access a home and found a family. We will do so without harming private property, the result of savings from Spanish families, and we will do so by lowering the massive burden of taxes and taxes. And what we're going to do is provide legal certainty. We will protect the owners so that their savings are safe from illegal occupations and debt defaults. With this, be sure that the housing stock will multiply, because they will not be afraid to put their homes for rent. [[Applauds]] To the hereus of Valencia, Mr Baldoví, I tell you that we will also defend your property rights over your two mansions and your three latifundios of Valencia and Mr Rufián that we will also defend your new chalet in Sabadell. [[Applauds]] Let them come here to teach us lessons a Valencian latifundista, a boy from Madrid's drooliest area and a 'ruffian' who is buying a chalet thanks to all the months he said he wasn't going to be here is surreal. [[Laughter and applause]] But forget to put your handles in something as fundamental as housing and let go, which we will already fix from the government. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr López Cano has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u94	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. They will allow me to say that we will not be able to support this proposal. We cannot do this because a proposal for a law like this must respect, without fissure, the constitutional framework, without invading autonomous competences. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it should also not border other constitutional rights, which must also be respected. Above all, we will not support it because, as you know, the Government of Spain, the whole of the Government of Spain, already approved in October, for the first time in democracy, the preliminary draft of the State law for the right to housing, which contains, by the way, many of the elements of this proposal, and in a few weeks we expect its speedy and definitive approval and it will arrive in this House. [[applause]] The usual process of amendments will be opened there. Whatever the case, we are convinced that very soon we will have the first law in democracy for the right to housing, that it will become a right and not a commodity and that it will be the fifth pillar of the welfare state of our country. [[Applauds]] It will be a law that will implement the coalition government's agreement and socialist commitment to citizens. The Socialists have fulfilled their commitments. We did, yeah. Allow me to reflect on the collective thrusters of this proposal. When the Constitution defines us as a social state, it gives us a mandate to the public authorities. By the way, that mandate we obeyed a lot more than others. The main building of that social State is called the State of Welfare and is based on the pillars of public health, public education, the pension system and social services, with the system of dependency included. The four pillars of the welfare state have an architect with name and surname: Spanish Socialist Workers Party. [[Applauds]] And now we are going to take one more step, we are going to raise the fifth pillar of the welfare state, turning access to a home, yes, into a right of citizenship, so that everyone can have access to decent, adequate and affordable housing. Again, in Spain we will make progress in rights, and we will do so, as always, with the help of the Socialist President. [[Applauds]] The most normal thing is that anyone, when they reach a certain age, wants and needs a home where to develop their personal life project, and we are very aware that in our country there are thousands of people, too many, especially the youngest, who cannot access that possibility, to that housing. And we have to remedy that reality. It is a moral, political and constitutional imperative, although, yes, from the Socialist Group we are also aware that we cannot count on you, because you are worthy to ask for resources here, but, listen, when you rule you do nothing, and when you do, you cut. You know what? I love today's debate. Do you know why? Because when the left governs what we discuss here is how many rights are created and how many rights are expanded and when you govern what we discuss here is how many rights are cut. [[applause]] That's the difference. [[Applauds]] And with regard to this, look, during these years we have improved the regulatory framework for rent, offering stability and security to tenants; we have given more protection to vulnerable households in eviction processes; we have put in place the plan to build 20,000 homes for social or affordable rent, yes. The pandemic has come and we protect the most vulnerable families to the extreme, yes. Look, in the 2021 budgets, the current ones today, 22 billion euros. Only in 2021, in just one year, have we done what you have done in five years. [[Applauds]] And in this budget of 2022, to which they voted against, they voted against a young bonus so that the young people of our country can have 250 euros for rent. That is what you have also voted against. This bill will come, it will come, yes, and you will not be able to resell public housing to vulture funds; no, it will not be possible to do so. [[Applauds]] Evictions without housing solutions will be avoided which will lead to helplessness; mechanisms of containment and price reductions will be established, yes; social housing will be increased. A favourable tax environment will also be created for the reduction of rental prices and for the increase of supply at affordable prices, yes. Abuse of large housing forks will be avoided; it will also be done. That is, we will move forward again, in an imminent manner, with the fifth pillar of the welfare state. We will advance in housing as a right, and in its social function, yes, so that in our country everyone can carry out their personal life project with a decent, adequate and affordable housing, and there I am convinced that we will find ourselves to have the best law possible. That is our commitment, and the commitments, as I told you before, we Socialists have fulfilled them, yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u95	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u96	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the promotion of a group of studies on the implementation of a digital euro as a digital public currency. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the possible implementation of the digital euro is a project of particular interest in a context of digital transformation with multiple challenges, and your debate is important for us in this Parliament because of its strategic potential, the current context and our political commitment not to leave anyone unprotected in the digital age, nor in the monetary and financial sphere. We must ensure a means of payment with universal and secure access, and it is important to move in a context in which technological progress, the massive use of data and the digital transformation of the economy as a whole are entailing, on the one hand, the growing interest of large-scale technologies in the issue of crypto-diversity, with an intended attempt to create private money - the so-called starcoins, as is the case with the currency Diem by a well-known company - and, on the other hand, the gradual replacement of cash by private electronic money as a means of payment, either for the exchange of habits or to ensure traceability in operations. It is a scenario in increasing technological development, which provides opportunities and risks for investors, consumers and traders, but above all for citizens in general. There is a clear need for greater European regulation and modernisation of the current monetary system. With the initiative that we are discussing today, we want Spain to contribute to the analysis of all the possibilities of implementation, which can be very varied, in the project of the digital euro, which is in the research phase until July 2023 and which is still very incipient. Our Government is committed to the European Strategic Agenda, and the initiative we propose is aligned with it. The Banco de España participates with the European Central Bank and the International Bank of Payments in a technical working group on the digital euro, CBDC, and has prioritised its study very recently. It is therefore coherent, logical, as well as important to set up a formal study group in Spain. From a technical point of view, design options are being evaluated at European level to carry out the determination of the euro's digital register, to guarantee privacy, to combat money laundering, to set the caps of the digital euro in circulation, the end-user's access when it is not connected to the Internet - important - and the establishment of an environmentally friendly infrastructure. These are technical issues, but also with legal and political implications, which must be analysed in all their aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, we are neither talking about nationalising the banking system nor about satanising credit - in fact, among the different variants that arise, private credit activity does not disappear and neither will private means of payment disappear - but we are not talking about active crypto, whose regulation is already part of the package of legislative measures on digital finance in which Spain participates actively with the supervisory authorities - CNMV and Banco de España - to advance in the regulatory and stable framework, such as the MiCA regulation, or in the analysis of innovative experiences within the framework of the retail payment strategy, to ensure that electronic commerce transactions are safe and practical. Ladies and gentlemen, with the digital euro project, we are talking about the concept of money. We are talking first of all about ensuring that the current currency is accessible to all citizens. This is to complement the use of cash with the issuance of accessible, universally accepted, reliable and risk-free digital money, such as money issued by the Central Bank. This is a digital currency issued and controlled by the European Central Bank. It is a question of having a public alternative in the digital field. We cannot lose sight of the fact that the European Central Bank is the monetary authority which controls and guarantees safe money and price stability in the euro area and which depends on Member States under the control of citizens' representatives and, therefore, under democratic control. Secondly, we are talking about better enabling the financial inclusion of social groups with more difficult access to banking services and electronic means of payment. In fact, the first digital currency experience was motivated by this objective. We're talking about choosing the best currency distribution model. It could be with intermediaries and/or hybrid options that can directly inject liquidity into citizens without endangering financial stability. Thirdly, it is intended to avoid the negative international potentialities and externalities that can generate the emergence of other digital currencies, i.e. to prevent a financial system that is excessively dependent on completely private payment circuits, issued and controlled from outside the euro area, alternative and/or substitute to that of the European Central Bank, from adversely affecting sovereignty and economic and monetary stability. In short, we must look at pros and cons in different ways to take advantage of the advantages of the digital currency issued by a central bank, to avoid risks and to position ourselves in a position of leadership; it is the analysis of a more secure and stable common European currency, less prone to financial cycles and crises. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say to you that, as the President of the Eurogroup acknowledged this week in his letter to the President of the Council of the European Union on the occasion of the Euro Summit, which will be 16 December – that is, we are talking about a matter of full relevance – there is broad agreement on the strategic importance of the digital euro project for the euro area and the European Union. A carefully designed digital euro has the potential to protect the autonomy, the resilience of the euro payment system, promote the digital transition and support financial inclusion. It is a broad agreement on its strategic importance that this Parliament could not be left out of, and I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the Government encouraging, in cooperation with the Banco de España, the creation of a study group to evaluate and accompany the introduction of the digital euro. We cannot leave aside the needs of the citizenry. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Muñoz Vidal is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a personal anecdote. Almost ten years ago this Member, when she was a financial worker, was already talking and thinking about cryptocurrencies. I guess what, they asked me then. On this he wrote and answered as Nexus 6, the replicator of Blade Runner: I have seen things that you would not believe. With reference to the existence and use of digital coins and their future. Well, almost ten years later I can say that this Member remains firmly committed to innovation and digitisation. Liberals work hard to modernize and digitize our economy as a lever of change and evolution in our society. In the European Parliament we have led the work so that the European funds Next Generation have adaptation to digitisation as a fundamental criterion for these investments. Here, in the Congress of Deputies, we have put forward various initiatives - we also put forward amendments to the State's General Budgets in digital matters which are already known to have been rejected by the Government - because we are aware that digitisation, like any major economic transformation, can affect citizens in a different way. As regards the digitisation of the financial system, Citizens also support the idea of the European Central Bank to boost the digital euro. The confidence that liberals have in the human being and in the future moves us to promote reform, renewal and revitalization as one of Europe's greatest achievements: monetary union. We believe that financial transactions are changing so deeply and at such a speed that we cannot allow this train to return without Spain on board. In Citizens we are not going to allow the old policy of patches and kicks forward to leave us behind again. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot close our eyes to realities that, increasingly, private initiative has already begun to develop. Spain is the Member State of the European Union with the highest growth in investments in cryptoactives: 12% of Spaniards have assets in cryptocurrencies. Faced with the traditional attitude of bipartisanism, dragging our feet with modernity, the liberals are attentive to the progress of our world, looking to the future with confidence and working to make our country at the forefront of progress. Consumers, users, Investors and even traditional players in the financial system are pointing to us a trend, a path, and in Citizens we believe that we must take advantage of this growth potential so that the digital sector and the cryptocurrency sector can develop safely in Spain. We must bet on training and information for users, so that they can make appropriate and free investment decisions, without obviating potential risks. That is why we believe that any conversation about digital financial assets is incomplete when it does not include cryptocurrency in the debate, and hence the amendment we have tabled. We must promote the safe use of cryptocurrency and make Spain a global benchmark for the sector. In parallel with this development, we propose to include a guarantee framework to train and inform users and avoid possible obstacles to the development of the sector in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we Liberals are working to create opportunities and not to escape those that open up every day in civil society. We work to create employment, prosperity and well-being. Liberals work for the formation of the individual, with all legal guarantees and equal opportunities. This is Citizens: freedom and modernity with all legal guarantees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u100	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u101	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. The Socialist Group is bringing us today to debate the creation of a study group to assess the implementation of the digital euro. No more, a study group. I wanted to ask him: What exactly is that study group? Having as many advisers as the Government has, they could have thrown a cable at them and helped them add a small descriptive paragraph at the end to tell what that working group, its functions and, above all, its composition, who form it, does not need to go into detail. We do not know whether it is made up of public bodies or private individuals; we do not know whether it is accompanied by the Banco de España or by the Ministry of Finance or simply goes on its own, but we will not be fooled. This group of studies, whose function and composition we do not know, will create it whether we like it or not, whether it needs it or not. Again it's a marketing campaign that PSOE does here to the government. This makes me a little serious about this proposal. It turns out that this is already being done by the European Central Bank. In fact, the President of the European Central Bank herself, Christine Lagarde, has already publicly stated the alternative of launching the digital currency over the next five years, on a very different basis from those argued by the Socialist Group in its proposal. Two months ago in the European Union a road map of national currencies of general use, the famous CBDC, was created for the implementation of the digital euro throughout Europe, with a date of development in 2026, with which you are calm, gentlemen of the PSOE, gentlemen of the Government, because you will not have to worry. When this happens, the socialist government will not be in the government and we will take the necessary steps to implement it and to decide whether or not the incorporation of the digital euro in our country is viable. For the time being, the European Central Bank has already laid the foundations for this new digital and supervised currency: that digital currencies are complementary to cash, that there is a control of payment movements, a fight against tax fraud, a decentralised issue of money and also, of course, a coexistence with cryptocurrencies, a sector that is currently booming throughout the world. In addition, the Socialist Group says in its proposal: that the character of money should be restored as a public good and under democratic control. What's that? What's that? I mean, what do you mean by that? The issue of democratic control for me confirms that they have not yet understood what this is about the digital euro. The digital euro is not a new currency, it is a format other than the euro, a digital format that, like everything digital, makes it possible to provide better services and more services. And it will remain the same public good that it is right now. That is why they have to look at this before they continue to make proposals in this area. Gentlemen of the PSOE, with this proposal they continue to demonstrate their inefficiency in everything related to digital in this country. We have been telling him for two years: total and absolute suspension. There is not yet a single law passed in the State's Official Gazette in the digital field, and that many of them come from a transposition of European directives that are out of date; they will tell us the sanctions that will be imposed on us. This morning - I think this must be known - the People's Parliamentary Group has proposed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation a non-legislative proposal which proposed to create something similar to what you are proposing; instead of a study group, an active national crypto council, but, yes, indicating who is part of that council - the CNMV, the Bank of Spain, the General Treasury Directorate - and, moreover, in a framework where the European Union has already drawn up a regulation - a year ago it drew it - on active crypto markets. It turns out that the Socialist Group has voted against it. That is to say, we are being proposed here by a group to study the digital euro and we have to vote on it, when this morning in the Commission we proposed something very similar in the field of active cryptos and they voted against it. In addition, they have to take one thing into account, all this digital euro is going to be supported by decentralised technologies that are based on blockchain technologies, which we have also proposed this morning and have also voted against. Finally, it seems that for you the working groups are good or bad depending on who proposes them in this House. However, nothing happens, because then they tell the Government, the Government takes it to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers approves it in a government that is absolutely obsolete. In any case, we have tabled an amendment that seeks to boost the implementation of the digital euro, of course, but through entities backed by public and private actors who have the power and who have the experience to do so, but which are all transparent. I, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, invite you to incorporate it and, in that case, you will have our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u102	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is planning an initiative on a subject of very increasing importance, such as cryptocurrencies, and, more specifically, calls for the creation of a study group formed by the Government and the Bank of Spain to assess the implementation of the digital euro as a digital public currency within the third generation of digital currencies, CBDC. The proposal, as Mrs Blanquer explained, calls for greater financial stability both for the Spanish economy and for the eurozone as a whole, with the aim of recovering - the pompous part of the proposal says - the character of money as a public good and under democratic control. Ladies and gentlemen, although the work carried out by a study group has, as we have seen too many times, a limited scope and on many occasions the reports end up forgotten in the background of the archives or, worse, in the trash, I think it is necessary to get acquainted with a European digital currency, although it is likely to take some time to come into force by 2026. However, I believe that our national central bank, by itself and by virtue of the powers granted to it by the Law on Autonomy of the Bank of Spain, has a relevant and exclusive role in this matter, because it is not in vain a member of the European system of central banks. Article 7.5 is attributed to the Government for advice, as well as to reports and studies that may be provided, but not to food. In fact, the Governor himself has already publicly positioned himself on the progress made in the European virtual currency and, incidentally, his prudence in the face of this digital monetary horizon and his warnings about the risks of the formulas that are being outlined are encouraging. I would also like to echo the appearance that Mr Panetta, one of the senior officials of the European Central Bank, made in the Community Parliament just a month ago to report on the development of the research phase of the digital euro project and to make a commitment to keep MEPs constantly informed of progress on this important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the democrats and supporters of the free market are worth redundancy, we are concerned about the political manoeuvres around citizens' money, and the more ostensible and opaque these maneuvers are, the more worrying they are. There is a certain highlight to the news about active cryptic scams and weaves, of which there are already around 10,000 different, and of the importance of following closely the various steps for the creation and deployment of a digital public euro. Among other risks, we perceive the competition of this digital public currency with traditional private banking, in which citizens make our deposits and to which we entrust our savings. However, the threats to financial stability are taken for granted with the migration of bank deposits to that new virtual currency, which would be a colossal blow to the regulated financial sector, which, in the specific case of our country, has been carrying out major conversions that have already left thousands of workers out of work. Likewise, it has not been detected today that the market demands a public digital euro, as a large percentage of Europeans and Spaniards prefer to make our payments in cash, although it seems that this is a matter of time. There are also other major latent dangers, such as those arising from a digital financial market without borders, without defined rules or supervisory mechanisms, where transactions and purchases are conducted from large platforms already consolidated in the global sphere. Some even warn that the positioning, strength or weakness of public digital currencies anticipates a re-edition of the cold war between powers, but in cryptocurrency version. In short, for Spain, this challenge of the digital public currency is also very important, and it is a requirement for the government, and I would say that for all the administrations, the constant alert to its development in order to implement legal measures to protect citizens against this market that is already no longer incipient, but I reiterate the confidence in the role of the Banco de España in the creation by the European Central Bank of a public digital euro. Depending on the compromise text being drafted, I shall decide on the final meaning of my vote. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u104	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u105	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Today the Socialist Group proposes to us a GNP to study the creation of a digital euro as a public currency, and for this purpose proposes to us the creation of a study group together with the Bank of Spain to assess its possible implementation. I believe that what is underlying this GNP is the intention that Spain should be the first European country to promote the creation of a public cryptocurrency, which I also believe - and I think Mrs Blanquer has also said this - must authorise the European Central Bank, which has the competence to issue digital euros. In this sense, as has also been said here, Europe has already started the pilot project for the development of the digital euro, electronic money that will work just as well as cash - it will not replace it, but it will complement it - and is already analysing such important issues as its possible implementation, its design, its distribution, safety, the limit in circulation, certifications. What Europe is looking for, in short, is the creation of a digital euro. With the digital euro people will be able to open accounts directly at the Central Bank in a way complementary to the traditional system. In the motivation of the GNP they talk about taking advantage of the advances in digitization and massive data management to implement new forms of payment, however they say nothing about the technology that is intended to be used, I understand that this will be the object of study and that they will then transmit it here; neutralize or mitigate volatility, anonymity, ultimately the risks that cryptodiversas that are not backed up by public entities may have; offer a public alternative to payment systems linked to the banking system and that escape the regulation of the sector and promote the financial inclusion of those social groups that have difficult access to traditional banking, and reduce the use of cash and, therefore, tax fraud and, of course, the submerged economy. But what is also not said is that it is a currency that will be able to be traced and that will also entail much greater control if it is up to the citizenry. And it must also be borne in mind that this currency can be able to receive many more cyberattacks, so it will also have to introduce much safer digital coins, of course. However - and I think Mr Pedreño has also said this here - as a small criticism, Mrs Blanquer, to set up this working group there is no need to bring in a GNP. In other countries of Europe it has already been done; Germany or France are already doing so. Only the will of the Government itself is needed. Why do you install it if you're from the government party? If the Government considers it important, we believe that it is the group that should drive and form that group. And not only that, if you consider it so important, you should be thinking of an action plan and even of a project like the one France is doing with Switzerland for a digital currency. I believe that it is not so much a question of transferring to this Parliament the fact that there is a working group, but rather that the most serious debate in this House has to be to tell us what is really important, which is the conclusions of that study and what on the basis of those same conclusions is intended to regulate and to establish the government. I believe that this is the real debate and not so much the creation of a working group. I frame it more - and in that I agree with Mr Pedreño - as a kind of marketing plan to move that image of avant-garde with regard to an issue that is already being debated, of course, in Europe. It is true that Europe is leading it and it is also true that it leaves the door open to possible national variations or adaptations. And, it is true, we are going to vote in favour because we believe that the creation of a group may be fine, but what we really urge you to do is to bring these conclusions here and have a serious debate about the proposal that can be put in place here in the State, which I believe will have to talk a lot about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u106	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u107	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the non-legislative proposal put to us by the Socialist Group on this issue of the digital euro, the fact is that the digitisation of our lives has been imposed, and more so after the whole COVID pandemic and the facilitation of payments by electronic means. From our perspective, this eurodigital makes sense if it is to maintain the euro, that is to say to maintain its link with a legal currency and not with certain inventions, and that this digital configuration is, as pointed out in the non-law proposal, an easy access, without cost, with a simple and reliable payment and without risk. In short, the non-law proposal approach is already one of the work initiated by the European Union, and not only initiated by the European Union, but also by the United Kingdom in the work being done by the Treasury and the Bank of England, France and the so-called Jura or United States project and the federal reserve; therefore, a series of work that is undoubtedly needed. We understand that it is well intended to make these proposals and studies longer, rigorously and with an analysis that can be shared in order to better shape this Eurodigital future within the framework, as we said, of the European Union and within the framework that States will have in this area. We will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal. Our intention in this area will obviously be in favour of what is constituted as a digital payment instrument that generates security in money and that all companies and individuals can use. And here it is also worth stopping five minutes not in future prospects, but in a current reality, and it is the lack of cashiers in certain unpopulated areas, which hinders access to cash for many people, or the obligation even - as it was these weeks in the press - to house the retirement pension and, therefore, the difficulties that many pensioners have to access to then take this money out of cashiers. And a third element, beyond which all people and businesses can use it, is to guarantee privacy and trust. In short, ensuring safe and easy access - here too the so-called digital divide, a real challenge for the implementation of this possible digital euro - and above all coordination with the European Union will have to be analysed. What do I mean by that? For, broadly speaking and in this line, we will agree on this proposal for a law, but it is also true that even if it is correct in content or is well-intentioned, we are also aware that at the end of the day there is a small coverage operation for the Government here and, as we said before, the non-law proposals of the Socialist Group which urges the Government to take certain actions, certain studies, do not cease to be somewhat surprising, because what we would like is for the Government to act motu proprio and not at the request of its own parliamentary group. It makes sense when the other parliamentary groups do, but it is highly surprising or curious when the impulse of government action is made by the party leading the government coalition. In any case, we will vote in favour and we will be waiting for the outcome of these studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. [[Pause]] Let's keep going. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u109	Thank you, President. We understand that this Socialist Group's GNP is intended to complement the European Central Bank's announced project to create the so-called digital euro as a payment method. This currency would come to cover the space that is leaving the money in cash, whose use has been greatly reduced in recent times. The digital euro would be like a physical euro, like banknotes and coins, but much more versatile and obviously digital. We have already announced our support for this study proposal from this moment on, understanding that if we really want to recover the character of money as a public good and under democratic control, the initiative must meet a number of conditions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, pay attention: firstly, a digital euro must have the same characteristics as a physical euro and will be issued and supported by the Eurosystem and national central banks so that everyone, citizens and businesses, can use it as a means of payment. Secondly, it should not in any way be seen as a substitute for the physical euro, but should complement it by taking advantage of the advantages of speed, security and low transaction costs. And, thirdly, the digital euro must be guarded and protected by the Central Bank itself; that is, it must allow citizens to have this means of payment, for example, on their mobile phone or in the Central Bank itself, without requiring the use of a traditional bank account in a private entity for their possession. We will support the initiative, comrades and comrades of the Socialist Group, but it creates some doubts, because those who would first suffer the consequences of a GNP like this would be private banking entities, and it has already been made very clear by the banking employer, the Spanish Association of the Bank: they do not intend to let the ordinary people get away trapped in a banked society. Because if we have digital euros and we don't need that much money in bank accounts because we can save on that new instrument created by the European Central Bank, banks lose a very important source of financing that comes out practically free of charge, bank deposits, and they have already said that they will not allow it at all. So, if the story is already written, maybe we should tell people. We would love for you to look at the general interest and opt for a digital euro that is not abducted by private entities to profit from it. We should not worry about what private banking entities think if it is not because the European Central Bank acts rather at their service and not that of its shareholders, the states. For this reason, in order to regain the character of money as a public good and under democratic control, the first thing that should be done is to rescue the European Central Bank from that false independence which it is showing and which are shielding the European treaties. And those who have argued that the managers of something as complex as monetary policy should be experts selected only according to their technical capacity should reflect on the democratic deficit problem that this generates, which is not of a small extent; that they should explain to us why monetary policy must be a matter far from the political cycles of democratic regimes. What evidence is there that the full autonomy of its managers guarantees better results for the functioning of the economy and for the material well-being of society? Are these managers at the service of the common good or do they respond to other interests? The answer is easy, if the general interest were to be defended, the financing of public deficits would not require the intervention of intermediaries who would greatly increase it. It is worth an example of the cost that this situation has had for Spain. If we could access the European Central Bank's window under the same conditions as Sabadell, BBVA, Banco Santander or the rest of the financial institutions, we would have saved 1.72 % of annual GDP since 2000 and the cost in relation to the country's wealth has tripled over the period 2013-2020, reaching 3.12% of GDP. That is to say, since Draghi acted to improve the cost of financing the states and lower the risk premium, the gap has increased; the reason is easy to understand: it has chosen to improve the conditions of the bank much more and that makes the difference in real spending that we bear much more painful, even if it is lower in percentage than it could be. In short, this lack of democracy is very expensive for citizens; the fact that the States of the European Union cannot be financed directly through the European Central Bank under the same conditions as private banking costs us money. If the Spanish public administrations had been able to obtain loans through the European Central Bank under the same conditions as private banks, we would have saved more than EUR 345 billion since 2000. And then, those who look elsewhere at these figures The tides say that pensions are unsustainable. What is unsustainable is that the direct financing of States by Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is prohibited and that it is the banks that obtain the funds at a very low price and then lend it to the States with the corresponding associated benefit. We want to put an end to this latrociny, because the money we overpay to intermediaries translates into worse public services and more democratic deficit and debt to pay for future generations. If we really want to regain democratic control of money, let's start...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u110	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u111	... for democratic control of the European Central Bank and let us not set ourselves up alone with the digital euro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u112	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u113	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the representative of the People's Party has saved me part of the time and I thank him, because it makes little sense to set up a working group when the European Central Bank, in which we are represented, produced a report that he published in October 2020; in July 2014 he started the research phase and the Bank of Spain participates and our governor, the best governor we have had in the last 40 years, participates in the governing board of the European Central Bank and therefore in all the working groups. We don't even have monetary sovereignty. Let the experts work and let them present the conclusions. What are we going to set up a working group for? Having said that, I could already get off this rostrum, but, look at you, you have said a number of barbarities, gentlemen of the Socialist Party... You conclude your request by stating that the purpose of creating a digital public currency is to restore the character of money as a public good and under democratic control. And you say that you fear that the absence of cash would suggest that all the money in circulation would be bank and private. Look, you guys, it's just that money is a public production asset. It's just like that. In a system of monopoly by geographical areas, which sometimes coincide with States. [[Applauds]] In fact, you do not know that private banks, in any case, are helpful through the process of creating bank money, but from the limitations imposed on them by the corresponding Central Bank. You do not know that we are in what is called a fractional reserve central banking system. Do you know why the fractional reserve central banking system was created? Because socialism and nationalism insisted during the twentieth century on the nationalization of money. And with that, what did they get? To finance basically world wars. That's what you did, because that's the maximum expression, even if you think it's a lie, of spending and the public deficit taken to the extreme. [[Applauds]] You say barbarity. They say we're going to create the digital currency to reduce financial instability. If that's why you created the central banks! That's why the central banks were set up! And you see that you have not ended financial instability; quite the contrary. You yourselves, in the explanatory statement, Socialists, acknowledge that the problem is that there is no separation between overnight and credit deposit activities. In fact, they start talking about how these two activities can be separated. Of course, it's just that that's abandoning the fractional reserve system. Even in that you are late, because eleven years ago that was already discussed, at the time, by the British Parliament at the request of Professor Huerta de Soto's studies. Do you know why the fractional reserve central banking system doesn't work? For basically - and I say this to Mrs de Izquierda Unita, who I have seen too much of her on the subject - the problem is that the only place where Soviet central planning remains is in the money market; there is only one offerer who sets prices and quantities: the central banks. And that already proved to us Mises and Hayek, in the old controversy they had against Lange and his disciples, that the State has neither omniscience nor omnipotence and, therefore, there is no human capacity to know how much to produce, at what price or when. Since that doesn't exist, it's why they've failed. That is to say, to come now with the digital euro going to put an end to the instability of the financial markets. If the instability of the financial markets is created by the central banks and the fractional reserve system! Look, the creation of digital public currencies has a part that I understand, which is to take advantage of technological progress. Perfect. But, above all, what they are trying to do is to avoid the expulsion of public money by private money. That's what you're trying to avoid, and it has a positive part, I'm not going to deny it, ending financial exclusion. It doesn't look bad to me, but in order for that digital public money to work, you'd have to give up two things. One, your love for the deficit, if not, that gives me the most form of ticket that form of aim, is that it will give me absolutely the same. The second is that you would have to abandon your love for central planning; you would have to abandon your love for central planning. Look at you, the failure of fiat money, money in bills, we've got it. In the last 50 years, do you know what purchasing power the Spanish currency has lost? 95%, almost nothing. And you go against that instability. Of course, it is true that where they apply more socialism it is worse: in Venezuela what was worth a Bolívar seven years ago, now it is worth 3.5 million. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u114	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Blanquer, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u115	We keep the initial text.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u116	Okay. Thank you. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the implementation of the public procurement standard to the current economic situation. [[File number 162/000872]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u117	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the adequacy of public procurement regulations to the current economic situation. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, defeat through incomparance, that is the headline that I would put to the situation of the Spanish economy. With a 40% higher bill of light than one year ago for Spanish families, with a basket of the constantly rising purchase that is causing these families to lose purchasing power at forced marches, with an inflation rate of 5.6% per year that makes families go through some of the worst moments since the start of the crisis caused by the coronavirus and with consequences on the public budget that we still do not know about the effects of indexing certain expenses, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is neither expected nor expected. We do not know a single measure by the Government of Spain to combat the loss of purchasing power of the middle classes or to combat the difficulties of the Spanish families, of the Spanish with the lowest wages to fill the shopping basket. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain still has a dual condition: that of the country most hit by the economic crisis and, at the same time, the country that takes the least steps to deal with them. The Group of the European People's Party today brings a non-legislative proposal to this House as a result of a huge concern for a sector of vital importance in terms of GDP and employment for our economy: the public works sector. A sector that is going through great difficulties that pose a decline in wealth creation, in job creation and that is also causing structural damage to thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the Government to arise, would act to alleviate the imbalances in the public labour market. But once again, ladies and gentlemen, if it is to make decisions and not just to possess, the Government is neither in nor expected of it. The fact is that the price of raw materials is distorting the construction sector of public works to a truly inexhaustible limit. As many of you know, procurement in public works has very rigid contracts in terms of price and delivery time, of which virtually all of those that are being carried out today or those that are going to start were offered at substantially lower prices than the current ones. I will give you some figures that you probably already know, but which are very significant. Between April 2020 and August 2021 we saw an increase of 105 % in the cost of steel, 81 % in the costs of aluminium, 77 % in the cost of copper or 50 % in the cost of wood. In addition, the increase in the price of oil and its derivatives, which is already more than 180%, must be added to this sharp rise in material prices. This, in addition to having its margin, logically, in the incidence of the general costs of any operation of the construction company, is also causing a tension in the derivatives, for example, of oil. This, together with the increase in energy prices, which continues to undermine families and businesses, is an explosive cocktail. This increase in raw materials, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed threatening the viability of thousands of public works projects. Today, it is regrettable to know that 40% of Spanish companies, four out of ten companies, have been forced to cancel or stop any of their works. In addition to this price crisis, the bottlenecks that are being produced in the materials and components markets that are, in addition, compromising the contractual deadlines signed between companies and administrations, with the consequent consequence that this has: the imposition of penalties on construction companies and the termination of contracts, including the prohibition of contracting with the Administration for some of them. A problem that is affecting, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises - which are, moreover, those that cannot go to formulas of revision of prices - of the whole Spanish geography, that they contract with the State, that they contract with the autonomous communities, that they contract with the small municipalities, of all sizes and of all colors. This is not a problem, moreover, that arose yesterday; it is a problem that the Government has had on the table for nothing more and nothing less than at least nine months, but of which it has not mentioned a single word or done a good deed. Countries such as Italy, France, Germany and Scotland have already put on the table and have developed their different strategies against a problem that also logically compromises the economy of these countries and all of them understand the possibility of reviewing the prices of contracts in force for abnormally high situations and, also, the possibility of changing the deadlines for the implementation of contracts. A national fund in Italy of EUR 100 million has even been set up to finance these contractual changes, and I am giving you an idea, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as to whether you intend to act in the EBD. All the economies in our environment have understood the gravity of a situation that can devastate an economic sector of sufficient size to seek a State solution, as it is a State problem. And that's what the People's Party is asking. [[The lady]] Finally, and as the friends of demagoguery will now come to say that what we are proposing is to save speculators entrepreneurs, I will say that it is not about saving any entrepreneur, what it is about with this GNP is about saving viable companies, thousands of viable companies committed today, it is about saving thousands of works that today are bogged down, it is about saving an entire economic sector, saving thousands of workers' newspapers that are not being hired, and it is about saving so many others that are going to be fired. This is, therefore, the real economy of a country that has a government that is not in real trouble. That is why the importance of this GNP to us, because to support it is to drag the government into law in this area. In fifteen days the Government can bring a decree to this House, to these Courts, which will certainly count on the majority support of the political forces; a figure, that of the decree, which it has used and which it has abused until exhaustion in this legislature. That is why I ask you to support this initiative, which we certainly believe to be of general interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this critical period of the national economy where inflation, energy costs and the pandemic have disrupted paces in all areas of society and prices in fuel, material and supply markets, it is very timely and necessary for the Government to implement urgently the adaptation of public works contract laws. It is indeed a question of saving the country's real economy and the employment of a great many workers. The non-law proposal defended by Mr Castellón Rubio promotes the reformist accent in two relatively young laws, elaborated and approved in diaphanous times of economic growth during the fruitful period of Mariano Rajoy's government, which brought Spain out of the ruinous situation to which Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist government had dragged us. A first law, that of Public Sector Contracts, which currently provides for various types of procedures that make contracting procedures more flexible and faster and which are, in turn, in line with Community legislation, the one that initiates the reform through this non-law proposal. In this connection, we should mention the so-called urgent procedure, which can be used in contracts whose conclusion responds to an indefatigable need or whose award for reasons of public interest is necessary to speed up. The Act also authorizes agility, through the use of the negotiated procedure without publicity, to contracts which demand prompt execution and which cannot be resolved by the urgent procedure. For these cases the deadlines are shortened. Finally, there is the emergency procedure, which is a procedure applicable to catastrophic situations of serious risk or needs affecting national defence. This Law on Public Sector Contracts with the variables of urgency, flexibility and emergency does not allow to modify the conditions for public works contracts in price and time when there is an extraordinary pressure of costs, which is what is happening today in the pandemic period, with the economic consequences that are triggering the prices of raw materials and therefore raising the costs to the point that there are serious problems for tenders. [[Rumors]] It's a good example.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u121	I'm sorry, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Valga as an example, he said, what happened recently in Asturias with the expansion of the hospital of Cabueñes, in Gijón, works without bidders for having prices calculated before the pandemic. The consequence of this failed tender obliges the entire file to be redone, which will mean a great delay in the execution of a public work of general interest such as a new hospital equipment. With the inclusion in the Public Sector Contracts Act of an extraordinary formula for updating the prices of the materials contained in the existing public works contracts and which, moreover, as set out in the non-legislative proposal, this is provided for in all processing documents, such situations could be avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second law calling for reform, which is that of desindexation of the Spanish economy, which has effects on the state, autonomous and local public sector, including public prices, regulated rates, prices and tariffs, subsidies, benefits, aid, fines and sanctions, among others. This rule in force since 2015 avoids the so-called second-round effects, i.e. that the increase in the price of a good or service will raise the CPI and that this will automatically impact on the increase in the price of other goods or services because they are simply indexed to other indices. It is a rule conceived when the level of inflation, measured in this case by the consumer price index, was around 0%. In fact, then the risk was deflation, while today the danger appears in the loss of competitiveness resulting from the rise in prices. In short, in exceptional situations, exceptional legislative remedies should be provided to prevent public works from being seriously disrupted by the Russian mountain into which energy prices, basic materials and the scarcity of certain supplies have been converted. This non-law proposal by the People's Group promotes such legislative remedies, hence it will count on my vote in favour, because, in the end, there are thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that are going through a very distressing situation resulting from the great costs of materials and fuels. The Government cannot remain unfettered in this situation, which seriously affects public works and employment. Hence the relevance of this parliamentary initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u124	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. I think that has already been said here on numerous occasions, but it is true that in recent times we are witnessing a significant increase in the price of materials caused by bottlenecks and by the increase in energy prices, raw materials which are essential, of course, in many sectors, but mainly in the construction sector. It is also not a problem that is exclusive to Spain because, according to data from the sector, the materials have been increased by around 20 or 22 %, and this is leading to delays in the works, non-compliance with contracts and the discovery of certain tenders for the subject of the price at a key moment when we are immersed as that of the economic recovery. The fact is that the construction sector has highlighted this problem and has requested the amendment of the Public Sector Contracts Act and the Economic Deindexation Act. The People's Parliamentary Group has picked up the glove and, in fact, focuses on this problem, and that's why it tells us about amending these two laws, the law of contracts and the law of deindexation, a law that, it's true, was also promoted by the PP. Please note that the previous spokesman of my group, Mr Azpiazu, was already moving forward when this law was discussed, which, according to what time, the economy might benefit from some inflation to reactivate itself. The truth is that they did not foresee exceptional situations and perhaps, if they had, we might not have been in this debate. In the field of public procurement there is the possibility of correcting the price of the contract by means of the legal mechanism of the price review, a periodic and predetermined revision, but the fact is that this mechanism is limited by the Law on the desindexation of the economy to certain contracts and, in addition, by others, the components that are subject to review are limited, because the costs associated with depreciation, financial costs and even the industrial benefit cannot be affected. In addition, the contracting authority in appropriate cases may establish the right to periodic and predetermined review of prices by establishing a predetermined formula, and the Council of Ministers also adopts standard formulas to review these prices for certain contracts that are appropriate. However, the solutions proposed today by the People's Group do not solve civil contracts or retroactivity either, because a reform of the Contracts Act and the Deindexation Act has no retroactive effect and therefore cannot be applied to existing contracts, but to future contracts. It is time for a solution, for a response which, we understand, must be transitory and, of course, for a moment of extraordinary and concrete circumstances. Perhaps, in order for it to be applicable to existing contracts, the revision of such formulas should be explored at least in order to adjust prices to the real impact of increases in materials, and perhaps even to allow longer time frames for the implementation of such projects or works. As has been said by the People's Group, in France they have calculated a percentage increase by law and have established price correction mechanisms for future works. We know, at least by the press, that some formula is being studied in this regard in order to be able to review prices. We believe, gentlemen of the PSOE, that it is time to respond to this problem and that it is time to use that masterful formula that you use so often of royal decree, that you use ordinary and that today, however, would have a reason to be faced with a problem that is urgent and short-term. In addition, I would remind you that you, in the Public Sector Contracts Act, have already tabled amendments not to apply the Deindexation Act to certain contracts for the granting of works and services introduced in the contract documents and introducing periodic and predetermined price revision formulae that could refer to price indices. I do not agree, gentlemen of the PP, that a GNP, if it goes ahead or votes affirmatively, obliges the government. I do not think so, and we have seen it on numerous occasions, but I do think it focuses on a problem that exists and that it is time for the government to find a solution. It is true that, for us, the proposals of the People's Group are not the right ones, but we have said, and I repeat, that they focus on an important problem that the Government believes it has to solve, because it is aware of this situation at least since summer and that it has now become acute, and in which, according to the Secretary of State, they are working together with the Ministry of Finance to deal with this situation. We believe it is time to be sensitive and, whether this GNP comes out or not, we believe it is time to respond and, of course, we encourage them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u126	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. We are now discussing an issue which may seem arid, but which is of great importance to those who believe in the market economy: we are talking about legislative flexibility so that the rules can be adapted to the circumstances, that reality does not go far ahead of us and that economic activity can be translated into prosperity for businesses and welfare for citizens. The Public Sector Contracts Act, as well as the Spanish Economy Deindexation Act of 2015, have created a rigid framework that makes it difficult to update contractual conditions in line with the evolution of the CPI. It is true that in a context of moderate inflation this rigidity could not pose a particularly serious problem, but with the recent inflation figures - above, let's remember, at 5% - this rigidity can put in trouble concessionary companies seeing their costs increase, the costs of their supplies, without being able to adjust the remuneration. In Citizens we have been pointing out for a long time that the Law of desindexation is a burden on the investments that our country is so much in need, the last time, without going any further, in the General Budgets of the State, both in the appearances of the budgets with the Secretary of State of Transport and in one of our amendments to amend that Law of desindexation, the 412, to alleviate the current deficiencies, that we already know that it was not accepted by the Government; amendment that, of course, we also raise in the budgetary procedure of the previous year. As liberals, in Citizens we impose the duty to square accounts and recognize the role of this law in containing the expenditure of the administrations, but we cannot ignore that the concessionaires are being transferred virtually all the risk of price developments, and we cannot - of course we cannot - leave our small and medium-sized enterprises and our self-employed alone with the extra costs that often arise from poor political management; we cannot leave them alone working in circumstances that can lead to bankruptcy. We said then, and we reiterate now, that we believe that an effort should be made by the Government. I anticipate that we would be ready to work and cooperate in this regard. Your honor from the PP has said that we could also be talking about a package of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u127	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u128	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u129	You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u130	Thank you, President. I said that it is necessary to make an effort - and we ask the Government, and if it needs to work in that direction here is my parliamentary group - to bring forward a balanced solution that takes into account the interests of the State and of concessionary companies, but above all of Spanish society. For the worse, the current disruption in global supply chains has only made this problem worse. Thus, we have moved from an incentive of investment and public-private collaboration for abstract risks to a very real and true damage, with inflation exceeding 5% and with industrial products whose price has been triggered. And it doesn't matter what we talk about; we can talk about semiconductors and microprocessors up to energies or fertilizers. Another thing I would like to comment on is that your ladies and gentlemen take off their ideological glasses and stop seeing public-private collaboration as evil. This is essential when it comes to certain investments which, due to their size and size, could not be financed by the State alone, by the public sector, and private collaboration has to enter. As you know, one of the first obstacles to this private intervention is that the legislation limits the profitability of projects, which is only 200 basis points above the profitability of the Treasury bond to ten years. This is also known by the Minister of Finance. The Ministry is empowered to resolve this limitation, not only that of public-private collaboration and the cost-effectiveness of legislation, but also the Law on Deindexation and the Law on Public Sector Contracts. Even by royal decree - now yes, so much so that they like the use of the royal decree - they could do so by amending this law. We will support the initiative of the People's Group, although it is true that we lack some self-criticism on the part of its people's lordships, because its text hides the fact that the Law of desindexation was created by the People's Party with an absolute majority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u132	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Law 2/2015 in its explanatory statement referred to a new non-indexing discipline in the field of public procurement. The intention of that law was to avoid the perverse effects of indexation on inflation, known as second-round effects. The initiative brought here today aims to relax this regime; in fact, the issue must be addressed with the prospect that public procurement accounts for almost 20% of GDP, and this public procurement, which accounts for almost 20% of GDP, is also full of many SMEs and many self-employed people who suffer, as has been pointed out above, from the economic reality that lies with us, as I will then point out. Law 2/2015 also amended article 89 of the Law on Public Sector Contracts, which affects the revision of prices and the origin and limits of this revision. And to finish addressing this matter and its legal regime, two years after this Law 2/2015 appeared to Royal Decree 55/2017 with all the regulatory development, articulating this point of inflection in the price review. It was no longer a right per se, but an economic rebalancing system linked to the evolution of costs. With regard to this regulatory framework, which constitutes the Public Sector Contracts Act, the Deindexation Act and the regulations, we must be honest and recognize that it is highly restrictive and in any case very limited and to put this situation and this completely restrictive and limited legal regime in line with the exceptional situation we are currently experiencing. Why is it exceptional? It's not hard to tell. First, the pandemic continues with its latest collections and the ERTE, a measure that the Government has systematically used, continue to be extended. Another reason why it is exceptional is the figures that appear on inflation and the possible annual inflation that can be derived. The prices of supplies, fuels and raw materials all contribute to a comprehensive package that makes it particularly difficult for the costs and burdens of this 20% of GDP that we said constitutes public procurement to evolve. That is why we believe that there is an exceptional situation and that it is therefore appropriate to review this legal regime which I have pointed out to you earlier. We will support this proposal to the extent that, in the light of an exceptionally well-accredited situation, it is appropriate to at least temporarily or exceptionally relax the ability to review prices and the situation of de-indexation of inflation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u134	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. Already in the spring of this year, certain international inflationary tensions were evident in the markets for raw materials, energy and hydrocarbons. Some figures have already been quoted here in relation to steel or aluminum, microchips, wood. It is clear that the crisis unleashed in March last year has been a global shock. Far from having fallen into a diabolical evil, the fruit of its communist social velocities, as the right is trying to show us, Spain has been, or rather is, a collateral victim more in the reaccommodation than certain powers such as the People's Republic of China, Russia or the United States are starring on the world board; reaccommodation, by the way, accelerated to the heat of this pandemic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no exorcism here. This is geopolitical in the most literal sense given to him by Mr Kipling over the late 19th century. These days we also call it globalization; some, somewhat pedantic, call it globalism as if they had invented lukewarm water. The case is that, instead of seeking the return to an impossible and, by the way, traumatic autarchy for our collective memory, as proposed by the ultras, many of us think that it is up to us to strengthen stable alliances with our neighbours and, from these platforms, to seek a somewhat more just and democratic governance of a world today that is largely deregulated. But returning to the real problem that Spain has today, inflation - with levels that had not been seen in the last twenty-five years, right, that awaken an old ghost among those who lived the fateful seventies and eighties - is a problem that actually affects all economic agents. I have heard you say on one occasion, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that inflation is a tax on the poor, on the workers. And it doesn't have to be that way. It affects, of course, the purchasing power of the workers, their wages and pensions, but also the self-employed and their small business, the workshop of sheet and paint, the bakery of the neighborhood, the barbershop of the corner, and also, by the way, the enterprises, small and large, which accede to public procurement as mentioned in their initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as well as those which do not. What the hell, by affecting, also affects the most lazy renters! The problem is that, coming to this point, and in order to avoid the so-called second-round effects that will inevitably start an inflammatory spiral, the technocrats began to popularize already in the 1970s the famous desindexation, a horrible, ugly word, which comes to cut the inflationary fever from the root and which has historically tended to apply as a drastic acicate, mainly on the wage mass, that is, against the workers. Not so long ago, in the 2013 PP pension reform, its deindexation, i.e. the incorporation of the sustainability factor, was sold as a real success when it did not but further unprotect our country's pensioners. The culmination of this doctrine came to Spain in 2015 when Mr Rajoy's government passed Law 2/2015, which has already been cited here; a text that intended to end the inflationary phenomenon as an economic problem in a context in which, in fact, the levels were historically low. In any case, it cannot fail to be a matter of the utmost concern on the part of any Government faced with the tension inherent in an inflationary cycle like this. In fact, we are aware that this Government is already studying palliative measures focused precisely on minimizing the distortions resulting from this phenomenon and on addressing the most affected sectors. And I say much more affected because affected, as I said before, we are all more or less affected. So why does the People's Party decide to present an initiative in which it singlely and exclusively points out certain contractors as victims of this cycle? Is the resulting loss of purchasing power by employees and pensioners not worthy of their attention? Perhaps the obvious tensions experienced by the autonomous and the SMEs by this phenomenon are not relevant enough for the People's Party. What has happened so that, from among the long list of the injured, the People's Party has decided to save a single specific subsector from burning? Well, if you ask me for a certain answer, I'll tell you, I have no idea. Now, Mr Castellón, I can tell you that we do not share the views, but of course I must praise your predictive gifts because I will certainly enter you from where you predicted. Pulling from Google and spinning some threads one perceives a certain pattern. It turns out that already before the summer the employer of the construction has been demanding measures in this sense and it seems that since then they have started the lobist machine, and guess who promptly came to the call of the employer. I say this to you: the party that has made the brick its only economic development program, the principle and the end of its entire policy, the party that was illegally financed through irregular public works awards, as the courts have accredited.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u135	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u136	In short, the party that wanted to turn Spain into the back yard of its friends - and ended with this already, president - and that today passes him the bill for the services provided, that is the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u138	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament for Cantabria, I would like here today to show my support and that of my parliamentary group to the dairy farmers, who were protesting a few days ago in the city of Santander and those who have been abandoned by this Social Communist government, as has also been abandoned by the socialist regional government of Miguel Ángel Revilla, who is currently more concerned about comparing whether he or the mayor of Vigo is more popular. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] This Government also has workers in the public construction sector, who are afraid of the loss of their jobs because the Government, aware of the problems for months, has done absolutely nothing. As we repeat and do not tire of it, we have the worst government at the worst time. My group will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party because we understand that, in essence, all this increase in the price of materials - as has been said earlier - with percentages for the rise in steel, aluminium, copper, wood, as well as for the increase in the prices of oil and its derivatives, which is estimated to have led to an average increase of 22 % in public works this past year over the prices at which the works were auctioned, as I said, all this is causing workers to fear the closure of businesses, to be afraid of losing their jobs. In August, a report was published commissioned by the National Confederation of Construction, in which it was clear that 40% of the companies in the sector in the last year had abandoned or shut down their own company. We are talking about the month of August and the Government has done nothing from August to here, we are in December, and of course that percentage will have risen considerably. All this comes as a result of the reforms that were carried out in the public procurement legislation and, in particular, at the time, with Law 2/2015 on the Desindexation of the Spanish Economy, in which it was limited in a way - at that time it was understood that it was necessary because of the economic situation in Spain - which left the review of prices of materials in public procurement as something very exceptional. In such a way that three requirements had to be met: the first, that the specifications governing the tenders for the contracts had been drawn up; the second, that at least 20 % of the work awarded had been carried out; and the third, that at least two years had elapsed since the formalisation of the public contract. Well, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the big ones, do not meet these requirements. Firstly, because these undertakings bid works which we could classify as small or medium-sized and in such works the contracting authorities do not include in the specifications the possibility of reviewing the prices of the materials, and secondly, because they are works whose execution time is less than two years. It is therefore these small and medium-sized enterprises - which are really the productive sector in Spain - that are suffering from this government's passivity in this regard. The lordships of the left presume a lot to defend the worker; moreover, the Socialist Party in its acronym bears the letter or, as a worker, but at the time of truth, as we can see, they leave the workers lying in the gutters. [[Applauds]] But to alleviate that is VOX here, because from VOX we will defend our workers, our farmers, our fishermen, our farmers, our merchants, our entrepreneurs... And it's not that VOX is alone, it's that only VOX is left. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u139	Thank you, Mr. Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vilches Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u140	Thank you, Madam President. He looked at a wolf in fasting, looking for a fight and attracted to hunger, to a lamb while he was drinking in the stream. I was looking for a pretext to devour him. First, he accused him of clouding the water, even though the lamb drank from the lower part of the stream. Then he accused him of insulting him the previous year, even though the lamb was not born then. The wolf, not listening to arguments or any justification, did not let him go. You'll always be my dinner, he sentenced the wolf while he devoured the lamb. Ladies and gentlemen, this old fable of La Fontaine explains very simply the demands of the People's Party by bringing this GNP to debate, and it is that for those who are hungry for the vote and their only wish is to attack the government there is no argument or justification. [[Applauds]] They call for a review of public sector contracts and compensatory measures to ensure that this overrun, which is short-term because of the rise in the prices of certain raw materials, is compensated by the public administration. Very nice for a GNP, but it is that they do not really concrete anything or specify actions. What is striking is that the People's Party is the one proposing to amend the Indexing Act, which they did, when they also managed the previous crisis and many contracts stopped, especially at high speed. But today, in a much more complex situation, ADIF and State Roads have been able to find solutions and continue their work. Once again, however, they use inflation again to attack the Government when it is a problem with regard to the prices of some raw materials that do not occur in this country, but it is a global phenomenon. They do not specify anything, as I said, nor do they define the economic cost. Or would such an upward revision of prices be at the expense of general government budgets? How would they explain this to the autonomous communities, local authorities or parliaments? Nor do they specify the greatest administrative burden in proposing a new formula for the extraordinary updating of the prices of raw materials, since increasing the frequency of meetings of the Higher Committee for the Price of Contracts of the State does not alter that the contractor can finally be compensated for the increase in prices, if they are also compensated. Nor do they propose how to bring their proposal into line with the existing national and European legal framework for public procurement. As I say, in short, it is an abstract and empty GNP of content. However, the Government, fully aware of the problem faced by some companies by this rise in the prices of certain raw materials, which, although temporary, may compromise the economic viability of some projects, is considering concrete and specific measures in the field of public procurement to ensure that these particular realities are resolved and to provide a concrete response in accordance with the principles underlying national and European legislation, providing security for both contractors and companies, that public procurement documents can articulate price review mechanisms and that they are effective, taking into account price developments during their implementation. It is therefore necessary to take account of the outcome of these analyses and to address specific but also effective measures. For all the above, our vote will be against because, as the fable of La Fontaine teaches, for those who want to do evil for nothing is worth arguments or justifications. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilches. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u142	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the forecasts of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda concerning the implementation of new payment or charging systems for the use of high capacity fast lanes, as well as the elimination and bonus of tolls, with particular reference to the Asturias-Madrid radial axis which includes the AP-6,Villalba-Adanero, and the AP-66, highway of the Huerna. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the price of light in record numbers, full-scale inflation and the shopping basket by the clouds the Spanish economy is going through one of its most critical moments, and everything points to that we face a period of indefinite duration and unpredictable consequences. To the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic that has plagued the world for almost two years, now exacerbated by the sixth wave of contagion and the emergence of the omicron variant, are added the ailing effects of the management of the governments of Pedro Sánchez camouflaged by his propaganda, covered by his abundant media coverage and completed with a terrible Law of General Budgets of the State 2022, which is going to represent another very heavy slab for the present and the future of the Spaniards. In this irresponsible and lethal drift to which the socialcommunist coalition drags us, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has taken out of the jar of the collecting essences a new formula to empty the pocket of the Spaniards from 2024; it is the toll by the use of the highways, which in the analgesic jargon of the Moncloa is called pricing by the use of high capacity fast lanes. In short, a monumental blast on the pretext of maintaining and preserving the roads that had historically been made and should continue to be made from public accounts. This innovative cheap tariff, promoted by the prolific fiscal and tax-sanitary factor, will further convulse the transport sector, which next week plans to carry out a employers' stoppage in protest of the government's failure to comply with various measures agreed in February 2020 and the constant rise in fuel prices: another collecting mine. With my motion, for the sake of a correct political orientation, I asked the Congress of Deputies to express its rejection of this toll and, consequently, to urge the Government to decline the application of this rest because without any doubt it would be detrimental to the economy of Spain and a new expenditure of important socio-economic impact for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, without leaving the crazy and dismal collection policy around road transport, the second of the points of the initiative promotes the urgent planning of the elimination of discriminatory tolls affecting the road radial axis with Madrid, which includes the AP-6, Villalba-Adanero, and the AP-66, Huerna motorway. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u144	One moment, I'm sorry, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause]] Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u145	Thank you very much, President. However, let me make a railway stop to note that last Friday, twelve days after the derailment of a locomotive and four wagons of a freight train, the only railway connecting Asturias with the plateau was enabled. This total blockage for almost two weeks and other multiple incidences throughout each year reflect the great communication difficulties of Asturias, which worsen in winter. That is why this is an added reason for the criterion of general interest to be of priority application in the cancellation of the toll by the use of the highway of the Huerna, which communicates the Principality and León. In the interest of this general interest applied this same year 2021 by the Government for other Spanish motorways, it rejected that the Asturians and inhabitants of the north-west peninsular areas linked to the radial axis with Madrid continue to be penalized for their use and, as has been done with other concessional routes subject to toll, they are cancelled in this XIV Legislature. The extension of the concession of the toll of the Huerna motorway, which began to compute last October, allowed at the time of its approval, at the end of the last nineties, governing the People's Party, the transformation of the socialist project of toll highway between Leon and Benavente, in Zamora, on a free-of-charge highway, as well as a 7 % discount on the tour of the Huerna that has been maintained since then. At the same time, with the repeated and forcefully opposed votes of the Socialist Party in this House, the People's Party Government itself launched the gigantic project of the variant of Pajares, a railway shock for the transport of passengers and goods. Ladies and gentlemen, against those who claim that the costs of cancelling this concession extended until 2050 are insurmountable, I oppose the solemn commitments made by the Government of Zapatero to abolish this payment; commitments arising from the 2004 election campaign, after which he was elected president, from the approval of the north-west plan at a subsequent extraordinary Council of Ministers held in León and, if anything, from the approval by the Ministry of Development of what was called the Pajares motorway, a free alternative to the Huerna with which the road N-630 is intended to unfold in its 80-kilometre journey between La Robla and Campomanes, that is, between León and Asturias. That project, included in the Strategic Plan for Infrastructures and Transport, PEIT, developed by Minister Magdalena Álvarez, started its first procedures and was subsequently discarded in hijackings. By the way, speaking of road safety in the Huerna, I would like to point out that the Government has forgotten over time the construction of a winter parking lot for trucks with an area of 54,000 square meters. The project, approved in July 2018, provided for a total of 335 places. This project has been parked, never better said. In short, a non-routine to charging for the use of high capacity highways and roads. In the interest of the general interest, the Government must proceed as soon as possible, without exceeding this parliamentary term, to put an end to the various tolls of the road radial axis between Asturias and Madrid. Finally, with regard to the amendment tabled by the Group of the United Nations Podemos, it rejected it flatly for its misunderstanding, in which it falsely attributed dubious actions to the Government which made it possible to overcome the isolation of Asturias. Reading the teletypes, their internal episodes and that of the policy of cloacas, bad day, today, Mrs Fernández Castañón, to attribute bruises to the own and irregularities to the others. Between the monarchy, the Supreme, the judges, Aznar, Rajoy, the toy strike and, now, the heart attack audit in the Huern are you untied. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u147	Good afternoon. There is a distance of 466 kilometers between Gijón and Madrid, a journey that is made daily by those who work in transport, who have jobs that involve moving more or less frequently, those who have had to go to work outside and those who miss them and go to visit them. My generation is called the Alsa generation - and believe me, I am not enthusiastic about the name for many reasons - because the most optimistic studies said that between 2003 and 2004 eighteen thousand young people had left Asturias. My friends, my roommates, the schoolmates and the neighbors were told by Alsa generation, but the truth is that most people were travelling by car. Three years before that, in 2000, the government of José María Aznar, of which Francisco Álvarez-Cascos, who then founded Forum, decided to grant an extension to the toll of the AP-66, the highway of the Huerna. It can be seen that the forty-six years granted in 1975 did not seem sufficient for the exploitation of the toll, and decided to extend until 2050, twenty-nine more years. Well, forty-six years since 1975, reckon, brings us to the year 2021, and specifically, to the 17th of October. On that day, the concession of an operating contract of the Autopista Concessionaria Astur-Leonesa S.A., Aucalsa, ended. The government of José María Aznar in 2000, the year in which Francisco Álvarez-Cascos became Minister of Development, signed an agreement in which since mid-October those who pass through the Toll of the Huerna still have to pay, and claims that we are twenty-nine more years. To complete the irony, it turns out that it is the party of Francisco Álvarez-Cascos that brings this motion today. I will think - and I will really think about it, because we know the proposing Member and this Member - who is in good faith, because, moreover, I know that she knows perfectly well the exact distance from this parliamentary seat to Xixon, and because, moreover, she also knows the number of compatriots and people from all over the world who make that journey several times a week, year or month. You gave him good faith, Mr. Oblanca, because it is praising the lack of memory that leads him to bring this initiative here. Now, I threw monkeys, which is what my parliamentary group has done by giving the battle with perseverance and perseverance, and I think that other parliamentary groups well know that one is persistent and constant when it comes to descending Asturias and we have done so to reduce this toll to the end. Because you know what, Mr. Oblanca and the PP's honors? That the European Commission has already decided that the toll of AP-9 in Galicia, of similar conditions, is illegitimate. And when we have to pronounce on the Huerna, what do you think the response of the European Commission, extended 21 years ago until 2050, is going to be a comparative aggravation with respect to the rest of the territories? That is why we say yes to the spirit of his motion, but we cannot assume the level of contradiction. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for an audit of that extension. Know the reasons, consequences and movements that led to this increase in concession time. What do you say, Mr. Oblanca, we take out light and stenographers and we understand what muds were for the muds of now that you're also worried about? Because we want, and we have defended it in negotiations and with amendments to the General Budgets of the State, that every Asturian, Asturian or person from any part of the world who has to go through the toll, pay less until they have to pay nothing, because it is not fair, because it hinders the commercial and labor activities of many autonomous, of many SMEs, of many working people and because it is a further aggravation to those who were forced to leave Asturias. Congress - we already know - is not a chamber of territorial representation, for that we have the Senate, but we belong from there, from where we have been elected. We owe those people, it's our responsibility to improve their lives, and if not, what we're for. Asturias has to remain a place where anyone can go, welcoming, and from which no one has to go by force, in which every project of life has room because we have a strong productive model according to the country that we are and with the capacity and the many resources that it has, without more extractivism, without more false conversion, with strong industry, quality employment, environmentally fair and sustainable. Asturias has to be that land to return to. I'm done, President. On that path, in that there is at last a project for Asturias, we must facilitate activity and mobility as much as possible, to put an end to the comparative aggravation. My group's commitment is clear...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u148	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u149	... The Toll of the Huerna is territorially unfair and we will work to suppress it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking very briefly, simply to remind both Mr Martínez and Mrs Castañón of the European Commission Directive 1999/62 and the principle that the user pays, the polluter pays. It's what we do in the Basque Country. The state-level road maintenance deficit is more than EUR 2 billion, the financing of which is not mentioned at all by any of the proponents, and that is what this is all about: how roads are maintained so that transport is correct and is carried out in conditions from the point of view of freight transport, but also from the environmental point of view. We cannot accept either Mr Martínez's approach or yours, Mrs Castañón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u153	Thank you, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, Citizens will support your initiative, moreover, because we consider it fair, and we consider it fair, above all, because - you point out and we agree - this government has only generated uncertainty with one of its probe balloons, the famous payment for use of tolls, symbolic payments. A whole series of qualifications to define the same reality: that we will have to pay again or continue paying for the time being the motorways and highways in Spain And, moreover, in a discriminatory way as you point out in your proposal. We agree that this Government has been basically for more than two years, either with a big deal on this issue without knowing what to do, or with a big lie because they already know what they are going to do and they haven't told us yet. In fact, as you mentioned, in August 2019 we heard the previous minister of the branch, Mr Ábalos, say that the government was considering a symbolic payment for the use of unconcessional highways. It was said in August by the same minister who in December was photographed in the AP-4 and the AP-7 lifting barriers, proud to have finished with the tolls. In other words, they removed tolls that would be replaced by other tolls and called them symbolic, as if the money we were going to pay for was symbolic, money from Monopoly. That's what it looks like they wanted us to believe. Since then, everything has been a drip of intentions, but they have not proposed anything in clear. In September 2020, a work report from the Ministry of Transport stated that ending tolls was unsustainable, but that was told to a government minister who had run for election shortly before promising to release tolls and lift barriers. In April 2021, we learned that the Government had sent Europe the document determining the arrival of European funds and, curiously, payment for use appeared to be one of the commitments made to the European Commission. Therefore, the symbolic was already beginning to become more and more real. A month later the minister himself, already ex-minister Ábalos, says in the Senate that without consensus there will be no tolls, that at all, this has to start with an agreement of all. This is said on May 11, 2021, a few months ago, and he said that all he wanted to do was open the debate. So we have reached the gates of 2022 with the conviction that we are going to impose new tolls, that they are going to call it payment for use, but that it really seems to be going to be an environmental measure, certainly because we are going to pay all car owners according to old age - as has already been filtered out -, you can or cannot change your vehicle in the current economic circumstances, which further aggravates the situation of the Spaniards. The case is that the new minister, Mrs Sánchez, who was coming to bring new air to the ministry, has maintained the same position: they are going to put us one more tax. It's a tax because when they call it pay for use they lie to us, and they lie to us because we're all going to pay it, whether we're going to use the highways or not, and we're going to pay it because we don't know if that money is going to actually fund the maintenance of the roads that are being used and for which those tolls are being paid, or they're going to be used in other things. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, the problem is that they have deceived us and always deceived us. We are still being fooled because the People's Party tricked us before, when it ruled, and now the Socialist Party tricked us into ruling. Both bet either to extend concessions and maintain tolls, as did the People's Party, or to remove them to put them back, as does the Socialist Party, but when they are in opposition they cry out and break their clothes claiming that what needs to be done is to remove those tolls. This is their shame. Citizens' position on this issue will always be to treat Spaniards as mature people and, above all, to explain that roads are not free, road maintenance is not free. Roads have to be built and maintained. We must have a viable and sustainable model to build the roads we need and to maintain the roads we build. We want to do it and we want to explain it without lying to anyone. This government discriminates against the Spaniards when it rescues the motorway - because we go on to pay them all through another payment system, usually through our taxes - but it maintains tolls, as you mentioned, in the AP-6 or the AP-66, with which, those drivers who travel on those roads, when paying the tolls are paying twice on that same road, because it is not the same thing to amortize the maintenance as to amortize the construction of the road itself. We will always demand a coherent proposal on which we can discuss and agree on the financing of the construction and maintenance of high-capacity roads, because if the Government has already decided to remove or subsidize only a few tolls, what we demand is that at least this be done equally for all Spaniards. What is good for some is good for everyone and we will support their proposal because we understand that it is something that must be done the same throughout Spain until we have a model to discuss. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u154	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Beyond this perverse game of political forces that defend one thing when they are in the opposition, they do the opposite in the government, they defend the first when they go back to the opposition - and I think that is the case of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in relation to the toll on the highways, as well as the proponent himself who was a member of the People's Party - the Galego Nationalist Block, as we have already defended on previous occasions, is against implementing a measure such as tolls on the highways, at least in the current context. It is a measure that, as long as conditions do not change, we understand that it is clearly antisocial and anti-Galega, and we say so because I think it is very clear that from the perspective of a country like mine, Galicia, this is perfectly understood. We are a country with a greater dependence on the particular vehicle, with a peripheral position on the peninsula and in Europe, and therefore with a greater need for high-capacity roads for communication and especially for companies to take their products abroad; a country with a great dispersion of population, but above all a country that lacks adequate public transport and especially efficient and sustainable public transport, such as railways. Therefore, in no way can a measure such as tolls on motorways be passed by a green measure or a measure that favours the ecological transition because it discourages the use of the particular vehicle. How will you deter in Galicia from the private vehicle if there is no alternative public transport? It is simply going to cost businesses and it is going to cost workers their lives as well. That is why I am talking about an antisocial measure, and I am afraid that it often seems that an energy transition is being designed only for the rich, only for those who can afford it. First we have to lay the foundations, then we have to act in that direction. Therefore, the BNG is going to oppose tolls on motorways, because we still have some element of justice pending, such as ending tolls in AP-9; again and again we have to refer to this problem. The Proponent speaks of the A-66, but it must be remembered that the three motorways with long-term concessions remaining in the Spanish State are two in Galicia, the AP-9 and the AP-53, and one in Asturias and León, the AP-66, precisely where we probably have more difficulty in communicating with the rest of the peninsula and Europe. But moreover - and it was said here - the European Union understands that the extension of the concessions of the AP-9 is illegal, that produced by a government of the Socialist Party ten years ago and that established by another government of the People's Party, José María Aznar, for twenty-five years, so that the extension of the concession of the AP-9 had to end in 2013. We've been paying extra eight years and, even above, abusive tolls. Therefore, we clearly have to demand that the Government act and end the granting of AP-9...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u156	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u157	...and claim to the concessionaire the return of the tolls collected improperly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u159	Thank you, President. From the seat, just to comment on two questions. The first is that our parliamentary group has always tried to make two ideas compatible. One is that things are not paid alone, with which the payment for use is an idea that we find interesting to take into account. And we make it compatible with the fact that, in the face of the abuse that has occurred, especially in Catalonia and other territories of the State, where the payment routes are concentrated in a bold way, it is more balanced. Similarly, we understand that this debate can only be held with a broad vision, which incorporates not only a part, but the totality of the territory and starts with an idea of balance and distribution of the payment routes throughout the territory. When that is the case, we will vote in favour, but we cannot support this initiative because we believe that it is not fair with some territories of the State, which have been bearing this burden for many years, even too many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are debating a motion concerning the tolling of AP-66 and AP-6, and it is important that those who hear us understand that Asturias lives isolated by land, sea and air; by land, in this case and occasionally, doubly. As for the motorway, that is, whoever wants to enter by road in Asturias has to pay twenty-five euros each way and twenty-five euros each way back, fifty euros each trip; each commodity that enters in Asturias carries that toll included in its cost and each commodity that leaves Asturias equally. But until last Friday Asturias was also incommunicado by train; Asturias could not be accessed either by road or by train, i.e. by land, if it was not paying a very high price. And Asturias is totally abandoned, because the autonomous government and the national government love to talk about resilience, digitisation, gender impact and so many other words that only politicians understand and really use, because no one else does. The reality is much simpler, and is that Asturias is abandoned by the Government of Spain and the Government of Asturias. That emptied Spain they're talking about is Asturias. [[Applauds]] Because Asturias continues to lose population, continues to lose young people. Families in Asturias face a very complicated situation. Youth unemployment in Asturias is 37.5%. Youth unemployment in men - and this you, who are so resilient, feminists, etc., say very little - is 45.5%. Look, I don't know if this is sexist, because they're above unemployed women. Analyze it. For this and other reasons, Asturias is the oldest and most deprived region in Spain, but it is also one of the oldest regions in Europe. The most graphic fact - for Mrs Castañón, whom I do not see here - is that Mires, which is a relatively important city in Asturias, even in Spain, today has fewer inhabitants than he had in the year 1920. That's how Asturias is, and the rulers of Asturias have always dedicated themselves to ensuring their re-election and that's why they don't think about the long term. And this has happened since 1978, and basically these rulers are from the Socialist Party, which has been ruling Asturias for forty years. And it is that this socialism has dedicated itself to securing their re-election and stealing, to stealing with full hands. Among others, trade unionist Fernández Villa, who, by the way, was a member of the Socialist Party, or Mr Rodríguez Braga, recently cut with his hands in the mass and who is already condemned to enter prison. [[Applauds]] In short, this theft of public funds is a very common vice in the Socialist Party. But while there is money to steal public funds, there is not enough public money to invest in infrastructure. And it's that the infrastructure in Asturias is completely abandoned, and it's not just this highway - which, by the way, Zapatero promised to free from tolls and did not, we're still waiting for it - are all the other infrastructure in Asturias. Like the internal connections in Asturias, the south-western Asturian is completely abandoned, and is that, for example, the only route of connection that currently exists with that area - Tineo, Cangas del Narcea, Salas - is now blocked because they have had to break down one of the bridges, for inability to withstand the load of the road that passed through it. And just before, this summer, one of these roads was blocked by an argayo, a landslide that had it blocked for four or five months. In short, Asturias is totally abandoned. And who has it abandoned is that Socialist Party, which is the great traitor to the Asturians. And it is that, as I have said, the Socialist Party has ruled in Asturias for forty years, which is said soon. And what does the Socialist Party do? Ask patience, ask people not to go out on the street, ask people not to protest. And the last situation is that in which the mayors of Cangas of Narcea and Tineo go out to boycott a demonstration that is organized precisely to protest this insufficiency in the communications of Asturias. That is what the mayors of the Socialist Party do, and it is important that all the Asturians understand it, because the Socialist Party considers that there is not enough money to invest in infrastructure, that it has to boycott and sabotage that public opinion that is rising and protesting, and for what it does consider that there is money, and that it is fundamental-shared, by the way, with the Lords of Podemos - it is to promote the famous language. They want to devote themselves to translating court sentences into this language. In short, they want to devote themselves to imposing their ideological model. For what? To secure his re-election again. This is their only goal, and it is important that all Spaniards understand it. Mr. Oblanca, we will support your motion. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Figueredo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gazquez Collado has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u163	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u164	Wait a second, Mrs. Gazquez. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u165	Thank you. Since this is a subject of the Ministry of Transport, let me begin by recognizing and adhering to the claims of the Asturian South-West in terms of infrastructure and for which they will manifest next Thursday in Oviedo. The south-western Asturian is abandoned and isolated by the desire of the regional socialist and national communist socialist governments. To combat depopulation in the rural area, not only does it require a Ministry for the Demographic Challenge, which, on the other hand, would be very good if the minister were capable, but is incapable. In order to combat depopulation, it is essential that the Ministry of Transport work to vertebrate the territories. In the south-west, solutions are needed: that the highway arrives in Cangas del Narcea, that the construction of the bridge of La Barroso is urgently carried out, that the court of the national court 634 is given an early solution, and, although it does not correspond to the national government, that the Argayo and the court of the AS-15, which cost a person a few days ago, is quickly solved. And following with the Ministry of Transport, which concerns us today, and with closeness and the Asturian deficiencies, today meets the Secretary of State of Transport with the mayor of Gijón - Gijón, not Xixón, Mrs Castañón, although she is not here; Gijón of the soul, by the way -. We are confident that the Road Plan will finally come out as Gijón deserves, with an intermodal station located in the vicinity of the Railway Museum, where only success will be guaranteed. To get to Gijón, Oviedo or anywhere in our region you have to pass the Huerna motorway, one of the most expensive toll roads in Spain, the A-66. In 2004 a socialist candidate, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero-called so -, came to Asturias to campaign and announced that he was going to eliminate the Toll of the Huerna: until today. As his apprentice Sanchez, he was an artist in promising and not fulfilling and became a slave to the hemeroteca. The debate on heavy and light vehicle aids in the A-66 and its rescue has been putting the People's Party on the table for a long time, and fortunately our pressure has changed their minds, because in February this year they answered a question with evasive answers. Indeed, they have already changed some opinion, albeit very slightly, and have budgeted EUR 9 million - an amount that will hardly reflect the amount a user pays - in the general budgets of the State. In the People's Party we are aware of the reality of the Huerna motorway, so our amendment increased the amount to fifty-five million euros, a amount that both the user of the light vehicle and the heavy one could appreciate when he will pay the toll, but, of course, with nine million euros they will not appreciate anything; and, of course, our amendment, like so many others, was vetoed. And as for Podemos - today Mrs Castañón, I insist that she is not here, but, as she is on the electoral campaign for primary, she has come to give us a rally - I still do not understand why so little is documented and why so little work is being done on the issues and amendments are being tabled without any foundation or consistency. Thanks to the governments of the People's Party there is no payment for the motorway between Leon and Benavente, because that was what Socialist Development Minister Borrell projected in 1995 and the People's Party arrived and fortunately changed that decision, and thanks to the governments of the People's Party since 2000 there is a 7% less payment in the toll between Leon and Campomanes than when the Socialist Party ruled. I insist, Mrs Castañón - who is in the campaign, and I wish her luck today, I repeat it again from this rostrum - has forgotten to talk about payment for use. A lot of campaign on the AP-66, and he's forgotten about the pay for use. That is indeed a tax, an important issue for all Asturians and for all Spaniards, and yet it has obscured it in this speech, and may well repeat it there. And she also recalled the Asturian youth exodus and how she suffered, but now they are in the government and could take action from the national government to reverse that situation. And I leave for the end the payment for the use of the highways. The Spaniards can't do it anymore. What bubble do you live in? In what bubble of communist socialist wealth of chalets, official cars and Falcon? By the way, Mr Baldoví was forgotten to mention earlier the numerous cutlets on the far left. What world do you live in? No more expenses, no more taxes, no more fees can be assumed. Do you know at what price electricity is paid today? And don't try to compare us to what's happening in Europe. The Spanish fiscal effort is 8% higher than the European average, and in particular 30 points above Germany and 35 points above the United Kingdom, which are direct competitors. It is obvious that we already pay for the maintenance, operation and conservation of roads with the general budgets of the State, and, of course, they are necessary actions, which require investment and the execution of the items. That is why the measure of payment for use is unfair and discriminatory, and of course we call for it to be withdrawn, for it to be renounced.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u166	Mrs. Gázquez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u167	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u168	Mrs García Chavarría has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. I was thinking now, when I was going to this rostrum, that I would like to do a memory exercise referring to you before I entered the body of my intervention. Indeed, in the year 2000 you were a Senator of the People's Party, and that same year in the People's Party government the Minister of Development was Mr Alvarez-Cascos, Asturian and co-founder along with you of your current party. Well, it was Mr. Álvarez-Cascos who decided to extend the toll until 2050 in the Huerna. [[Applauds]] If it had not done so, that motorway would, in fact, be free of charge today, in particular since 17 October. I remember statements in 2002 by Mr Álvarez-Cascos explaining everything, so he claimed that his Government was not in favour of reducing tolls on motorways. And I also recall that he acknowledged that under his command at the head of the ministry that and many other concessions were extended. And I also remember Mr Martínez Oblanca, who in 2003 privatized her. But you know what I don't remember? I do not remember you, Mr Martínez Oblanca, criticising this enlargement, nor a single expression of disagreement on your part. That's what you left for today. Today it does come to demand the urgent abolition of the tolls with which it has agreed to extend, and now it comes to attack the Government which has been concerned precisely with finding solutions to this. What it takes to blow and sip at the same time. In addition, you anticipate a decision by the Government of Spain that has not yet been raised. He was only told that work would be done on a proposal, subject to broad political and social consensus, to ensure the financing of our road network, because the objective was to be a fair, balanced proposal based on the principles of territorial equity, road safety and environmental sustainability. [[Applauds]] In spite of the fact that some of you may still be able to make a destructive opposition, there is still no question of setting up tolls on the Spanish roads. Although it is true that they involve enormous expenditure, their construction and maintenance require, indeed, very substantial and increasing contributions to the general budgets of the State. But thanks to them we not only connect and vertebrate territories, improving private connections, but also collaborate in that companies and autonomous transport their goods quickly and safely throughout the national territory. They are, therefore, if I may say so, instruments of redistribution of wealth that guarantee communications accessible to all Spanish and Spanish. On the AP-66 motorway the annual bonuses already account for between 11 and 15 % of toll revenues, and the Government has made the decision to increase in these state budgets in order to expand. But in the meantime, what you are doing is opposing the toll bonuses, which I remind you were approved by the Socialist government of Rodríguez Zapatero in 2006 and 2007. [[Applauds]] And it turns out that in the general budgets of 2022 more than six million euros are envisaged for the bonuses of the AP-66. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u170	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u171	They are bonuses that come in favor of Asturians and Lions to lighten the burden of their payment for a toll in effect for many years now. And what has Forum done? Vote against. That is to say, on the one hand, they claim to be free-of-charge advocates, but it turns out that they are voting against budgets that are just trying to mitigate the burdens that the PP governments put in and shielded, thinking only of concessionary companies and for nothing about citizens. This government, on the contrary, has included historical bonuses on highways as in that of my land, in the AP-9, prioritizing for its recurring and local traffic. It has already reduced by more than 30% the tolls of highways that have reversed the state and has liberalized 1029 kilometers of highways and highways...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u172	Mrs. Garcia, you have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u173	...saving users more than €1400 million. [[Rumors]] I'm just finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u174	No, Mrs. García, you have to finish now: a sentence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u175	In short, they have now resorted to tolls. They're playing tolls now. They first touched vaccines. I guess soon we'll see Mr. Casado take a tour around... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs García, you have finished your time. [[Applauds]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, from his speech the Presidency deduces that it does not accept any of the amendments, and this motion is therefore going to be voted on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u177	Exactly, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u178	All right. Thank you so much. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. First of all, we are voting for the proposal for a law of the Andalusian Parliament on the recognition of the free and universal nature of the first cycle of early childhood education. The vote will begin. The voting was as follows: 328 plus 9 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 303 plus 7 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 25 plus 2 telematics votes, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u180	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u181	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Republican, Plural, Euskal Herria Bildu and Mixed Parliamentary Groups, guaranteeing the right to decent and adequate housing. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 334 votes, plus 9 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 54 plus 3 telematics votes, 57; against, 274 plus 6 telematics votes, 280; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u182	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u183	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, can we continue? I'm asking for a little silence, please. Proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the promotion of a study group on the introduction of a digital euro as a digital public currency. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 184 against, 52 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u184	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the implementation of the public procurement standard to the current economic situation. [[File number 162/000872]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u185	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the adequacy of public procurement regulations to the current economic situation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 154 against, 175 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u186	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u187	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent questioning. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the forecasts of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda regarding the implementation of new payment or charging systems for the use of high capacity fast lanes, as well as the elimination and bonus of tolls with special reference to the Asturias-Madrid radial axis which includes the AP-6, Villalba-Adanero, and the AP-66, Huerna Highway. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 151 against, 174 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-14-CD211214.u188	The motion was therefore rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
