ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is opened. Take your seats, please. I want to start this session by moving some considerations as President of Congress. Firstly, I think it is important to remember that the decisions of the Presidency in the direction of the debates must be complied with, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[Applauds]] Please let me continue. Secondly, since the presidency, it has been possible to express any political position on the part of the parliamentary groups, because I believe that this should be the case. We must all have the freedom to express the political positions we stand for. Everyone. But on too many occasions in this House, that freedom of expression has ended up being misused, projecting insults and offenses to people and institutions, and we cannot allow that as representatives of popular sovereignty, as representatives of all Spanish society. In my view, insults and offenses must remain outside this House for the proper functioning of Parliament and the good representation of Parliament. I often wonder - and I imagine you do too - whether we are aware of what we are projecting out, whether we are aware of what we are moving, especially the younger ones, to the new generations who listen to parliamentary debates, who listen to politicians and to the voice of democracy in Spain. If that reflection is made, I have no doubt that you will all come to the conclusion that we are not keeping the debates in the right terms at all, nor are we projecting what we want for our society: a society that is able to listen to the other, that is able to understand the positions of the other, that is able to relate to those who think differently, and we must start by setting an example in this house. Therefore, I ask you, please, to do this daily - as I do - reflection. I am sure that if you do so, many of you will also change the way you express yourself in the rostrum and in this house. Thirdly, he has transferred to them that one of the main functions of the Presidency - of course, I have it as an obligation from the first minute to assume this high responsibility - is the defence not only of the decorum of this House, but of the dignity of the Parliament of Spain, of the Congress of Deputies, and for this reason I have no choice but to ask them for more respect and more education when it comes to taking the floor. May you think, every time you take the floor, that you want to respect yourselves and others. Parliamentary hardness is perfectly compatible with good education, and that parliamentary hardness does not have to result in offense. Therefore, from the utmost impartiality in the exercise of my functions, as I have done so far and will continue to do so, what I am telling you is that I am not going to be neutral in the defence of this Parliament, I am not going to be neutral in the defence of our country's institutions and I am not going to be neutral in the defence of democracy in the end, because I believe that Spanish society is what it deserves and I sincerely believe that it is what we should all offer them as a whole. To this end, I count on your cooperation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency is submitting to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that urgent appeals are discussed in accordance with the following order: items 32, 30, 29 and 31 of the agenda. These are the points that affect the interpellations, so that all of you will be aware of it. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group, concerning the amendment of the Royal Decree of 14 September 1882 approving the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to introduce the offences of usurpation of real estate within those contained in article 795, and to amend article 553, in relation to those same offences. For the presentation of the initiative, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with your data, not with urban legends, but with the data collected by the Ministry of the Interior. In Spain there are an average of 40 illegal occupations per day. Over the past five years, complaints have increased by more than 40%, we have reached nearly 15,000 by 2020. Those are the official figures. A rule of law cannot allow organized individuals or groups to take possession of properties that do not belong to them. The right to private property is a fundamental right in our Magna Charter, which sheds fruit on the efforts and prosperity of the middle and working classes in free societies and rises as one of the guiding principles of our nation's social and economic policy. And I will tell you more: it is one of the essential guarantees of the political order and of social peace. But, of course, these are the rights of the Spanish. They have the right to property, but we have the duty to defend that right. They have to trust that we will defend them. You fill your mouth with the word Europe, but let us see how foreign legislators defend something as essential as property. In the Netherlands, it is enough to denounce the police, so that they were immediately personified to evict the Okupas. Do we have to be worse than the Dutch? In France, in 48 hours and without a court order, there is no trace of the Okupas. Do the Spaniards deserve to be less than the French? In Germany, an octopus house recovers in 24 hours. Are the Germans less democrats than we are? In England, if the judge's order doesn't leave the house, the Okupas go right to jail. Oh, sorry, these aren't Europeans anymore. But, well, let's go to Italy: denunciation, quick trial and the police evict, and besides, the Okupas have to pay the damages. How envious! These are Mediterranean countries, but let us go to the Nordic countries, those which you set as much as an example, when you are interested, of course. In Denmark and Sweden, it is enough to report to the police for immediate eviction. And Spain? Spain, which you refuse to defend, has become the paradise of ocupation. Thousands of Spanish families are suffering from their greed, apathy, their little desire to work and see helpless how the law stands on the side of criminals. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for a volcano to destroy the homes, memories and effort of thousands and thousands of Spaniards. I'll tell you what the Spaniards want. What they want is that they do not pass any more empty laws or royal decrees that, in the name of false vulnerability, sharpen and eternalize the problem at the cost of the dignity of families, but not only of their dignity but of their savings; the savings they have to spend on paying for water and light from the Okupas, the savings they have to spend on lawyers to get their house back. Don't you see it? The negative impact of an illegal opt-out means up to 30,000 euros for the owner and not only that, but his house, that is, his savings, is depreciated by 50 %. It's a bad business, isn't it? Except for the mafia, because, in the case of the ocupation - you know - we are talking about a mafia activity that earns a lot of money at the expense of families and that costs a lot of money to the state's arks: police, judges, mental health, relocations. The State Arks is the money of all Spaniards; all Spaniards are paying the illegal octopus. [[Applauds]] Do you know that if the owner, in his despair, thinks of cutting off the water or the light - by the way, today at more than 180 euros the megawatt hour - this social-communist government considers it a crime of coercion? Do you know that if you stop paying for the water and that expensive light goes to a list of late and could no longer be bought on time even a mattress? Because ordinary people have to buy their mattresses or their running tapes to resist illegal lock-ups. There are others, such as the President of the Government or the Minister of the Interior, who do not. Speaking of Indians, those who don't have time or don't want to listen to the hundreds of people who have come to the door of Congress to tell us how they mallive the drama of the occupation, I can give you some examples. Enrique and his wife moved to Vigo for work but occupied their only property in Alicante, and there began their ruinous calvary. Enrique told us the following: You are forced to start a trial to recover what is yours, and if you don't have the first 3000 euros for attorney and attorney, you must ask for a loan or whatever because if you don't report it, they stay at the house. Then you have to pay 400 euros per resource, because they appeal and appeal while they receive free justice. If you don't object to the resource, it's how to consent. In the end, you sell the house anyway - losing a lot of money - because what you want is to end that nightmare. Another example: Luisa had granted an official protection home, where she lived alongside her two daughters. He was absent for four days to care for his father, who became ill and finally died. On his return, some Magrebians had taken over his home. He denounced and the judge ordered the restitution of the house. The Okupas threatened Luisa and her daughters with death. She, alone and frightened, did not return to the house and now lives in a van. Or there's the case of Loire, who occupied her father's house despite being alarmed. His father, who is already older, goes crazy when he sees his house full of strangers - his house!-. He died a little while before he got her back. The house was completely destroyed: tons of garbage, clothes, bags and dirt came to the roof. Now, if anything blows the alarm, Loire goes into a crisis of anxiety. Do you want to know the consequences for the owner? Psychological, physical, pharmacological treatment, sleeplessness, anxiety, sadness, discomfort, despair, impotence, threats, fear, reports of coercion, tiredness, insecurity, lack of calm and peace, loss of time in described procedures, meetings and countless efforts to fight for their property. Because it is they who have to move all the papers and pay the full cost of lawyers and suspensions. They live with the feeling that they laugh at them when they go to the police, the mayor, the judge, the councillors or the social services, because nobody acts on their own, because they are not defending their rights. [[Applauds]] And all this with his support, with the support of the Congress of Deputies and a government that is not only justified, but is encouraging illegal octopus. How it contrasts all this with the care you have, communist lords, so that you do not approach your capplons! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are protecting criminals, encouraging the mafia and abandoning to their fate the Spanish of good, the families who invest their savings in a housing that allows them to supplement their income or not to be left without anything when they are badly given, as now. We could fix part of this problem with social housing, as they also do in Europe. In Austria, 24% of its housing stock is for social rent; in Denmark, 29%; in Finland, 13%; in France and Great Britain, 17%; in the Netherlands, 30% are for social rent. And in Spain? In Spain, a sad 2.5%. What have the last forty years of bipartisanship been doing in Spain? Nothing. Well, some take advantage of 3%, right, Catalan minority? [[Applauds]] In other cases, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the illegal misappropriation of a serious to minor offence in the Criminal Code is now considered. It is our duty, as representatives of national sovereignty, to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of families who are in a state of defence and to help them get out of this trance, as well as to ensure the law and order, the physical and mental security of our fellow citizens, the security of their savings, legal security, because, in the end, it will be the only thing that will attract the investments necessary to be able to build houses. Since VOX, we have already put forward a proposal for a law to toughen the penalties for otupation offences and provide measures to the State Security Forces and Bodies to extend the protection of owners. Today we ask you to support this law that will enable the Security Forces and Bodies to be strengthened by providing them with tools for immediate eviction and by immediately prosecuting the Okupa. I repeat: property is an essential part of the identity of the Spaniards and a fundamental pillar of our rule of law. In VOX we know and you know it too. One day we will govern and that day we will implement the 100 measures of VOX for Spain; in this case, our measure 86: enact anti-opupation laws and criminalize the ocupation of houses as a crime against private property, a legislative reform so that the okupas are expelled in a matter of hours from the houses where they have entered. [[applause]] But why don't you join us today in this? Why don't you take advantage of the opportunity to finally do one thing right, one, the first? Be fair for once, stand on the bright side for once and, for the first time, vote for something that really serves to defend the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards need legislative instruments to deal with the episodes of usurpation of real estate and to enable our forces and bodies of State security with diaphanous, unequivocal and robust legal mechanisms that allow them to act in defense of the owners victims of the Okupas and organized mafias who perpetrate different criminal modalities, including extortion of the legitimate owners of a house or property. In Spain this kind of crime, far from being corrected, is going to be more. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior registered more than 14,600 complaints in the past 2020 for housing occupancy, and in the first half of the current year 2021 the number of complaints was exceeded, which in the same period of the previous year was almost equal, somewhat lower. With this data in hand, it has been of little use the specific instruction of the Attorney General's Office on the criteria of action for the application of precautionary measures in the crimes of trespassing and usurpation of immovable property published a year ago, which emphasizes the urgency of amending the Criminal Prosecution Act so that both the judiciary and the State Security Forces and Corpses have the means to provide legal protection to the victims of the Okupas, including in this criminal genre the professional Okupas with their extorting modalities and various formats of scams that directly affect the owners and also the neighboring communities affected by these events. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a specific reference to Asturias to point out that in my home community, in addition to increasing the number of okupations annually, with a rebound of around 40% in the last three years, the courts have also seen the cases of professional okupas grow and, as in the whole of the country, the very high litigation of our courts drags procedures that are not resolved with agility, rather on the contrary, because it can take between three and five months for the owner of a real estate to regain access to it, with the consequent legal costs, and unfortunately another calvary will begin to repair the damage caused and replenish the housing conditions of the real estate. Also for public budgets there is a significant expenditure resulting from the Okupa activity, as Mrs Esteban Calonje pointed out in her speech. In conclusion, and in conclusion, I will vote in favour of this consideration, because it is urgent to combat and correct the worrying trend in Spain of the Okupa phenomenon, of which the Government of Sánchez and the PSOE and Podemos groups disagree, as we have seen here in Congress in previous legislative and anti-okupa proposals made by the opposition and which were rejected. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u8	Thank you, President. The deputy from VOX made a comparative policy between housing laws and spoke of Germany. We're good to talk about Germany. In fact, in Berlin this weekend there was a referendum on whether to expropriate 240,000 homes of large owners. Let me tell you that in Berlin there is an expansive policy of public housing and that, moreover - oh, surprise! - it won the yes to expropriation, unlike the Spanish state, to which not only has not arrived the housing law, but also the debate today in the Congress of Deputies is about the eternal ghost of the extreme right: the okupas of the summer houses. But the ocupations of the summer houses are few, and the ones that are there are vulture backgrounds. If so, why do you keep the flag of the ghost of the Okupas of the summer houses? Well, because you are the party of the rich and the great owners. The ghost of the summer houses Okupas has three fundamental elements. The first is the chollo; the chollo of those who occupy houses to live from the state. Do you think that okupar a house by necessity and suffering for a eviction is a chollo? The second fundamental element of the phantom of the summer homes' Okupas is fear. No wonder you are fuelling fear, for connections have been repeatedly demonstrated between the extreme right-wing company De Okupa who practices illegal evictions. If we talk about you being the party of the rich, we can also talk about the alarm ads of each summer, followed by the ads to infuse fear of the population because they are going to okupar the summer house. And the third fundamental element of their ghost of summer homes' Okupas are the working families that occupy the homes. Don't tell lies. According to the Union of Tenants, 80% of the houses occupied in Barcelona are of vulture funds, of large owners. So, no chollo, no fear, no working families. You are the party of the rich and you are the party of the great owners. It said a painted that became viral this summer in Barcelona that life is what happens while you are afraid to be occupied by the house that you do not have during the holidays that you are not going to do. Do you know what the other side is, that of the reality of Barcelona, where this painted was made? Every hour, a family in Catalonia loses their home because they can't pay rent or mortgage. You are the party of the rich. The most progressive government in history does nothing to make the debate about big owners, but the hardest thing is not this, it is you who are the party of the rich who live to instill fear of the penultimate over the latter. Faced with that, left-wing politics. And yes, when there is no more possibility, okupation, because what has to be done with the vulture-backed dwellings is to distribute them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u10	President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that again, and very often, we come up here to talk about the false dilemma or big problem that they say about the opt-out. As you have been told a moment ago, it would appear that these initiatives are a logical friendly response to the publicity campaigns that flood our media with the sale of alarms threatening us of what things. We, as a system, always vote against this proposing group; it is nothing new and I assume that no one is being exposed. But it is no less true that, despite that, we read the initiatives, and one can say that with any of those initiatives one can even enjoy it, because grotesque can also make one enjoy. Actually, when I read the initiative, I was thinking that we were faced with the shaping, in this case in the parliamentary seat, of the second battle within the far right. The first battle was fought a few days ago with a radio speaker by someone who didn't say if he was vaccinated or not. Now it seems that we find the second, because when I read the explanatory statement I read things like this - it is literal -: 'A rule of law cannot allow individuals or organized groups, acting out of legal channels and/or under the pretext of an alleged need for housing, to seize properties that do not belong to them and on which they have no valid title to enjoy them'. So I thought, like these go against Desocupa; like they've been angry with Desocupa. But it went further, because in the third paragraph of the same statement of reasons it says: 'Article 18.2 of the Constitution provides that the domicile is inviolable and that no entry or registration may be made without the consent of the holder or judicial decision, except in the case of flagrante delicto'. And again I came to the head Desocupa, which is not characterized by going with judicial authorization or knowing whether or not there is a flagrant crime. But no, when I saw the proposals that they were moving, I realized that it was not an adjustment of accounts with Desocupa, but that it was to strike again in his doctrine the rarity of more authoritarianism and more bureaucracy so that we do not talk about the real problems of the people. [[Laughter]] They laugh whatever they want, but it is you who have to explain your text, not me; I have not written it and I do not know who wrote it, but, of course, there are chimpanzees who could do it with better pulcrity, because it seems a good idea to suggest that the problem of all this is solved by sending people more time to jail, that is, a maximum of five years - there are benevolent - and then they say that or a maximum of ten years with accumulated sentences or with accumulated penalties to prison. But do not stop there, because you make a very sui generis interpretation of the principle of authority, until you give a plenipotentiary character to the officer of authority, in this case to the police, and also pass over and overlook any kind of presumption of innocence. To you the presumption of innocence, if in your internal court it is known that what may be happening is bad, it is enough for you, because, if not, you would also have to explain things like this that say: 'It will also be considered delinquent in fraganti who would be surprised immediately afterwards...', but you do not specify how long it is immediately afterwards. And they continue to say: '... that they have committed an offence with effects, instruments or vestiges that allow their participation in it to be presumed'. They will already explain to me where this can take us, because in the Spanish state there is no hobby also to buy stolen goods!, that I don't say it's okay, but it probably doesn't sit on the level of the okupa the delinquent you pose. But they have even more hilarious or grotesque things, because they also say: '...if... there were appearances of usurpation or illegitimate occupation, and those did not give sufficient reason to legitimize their conduct'. That is to say, when a policeman arrives at a home and understands that there is an appearance of usurpation - to see how he intuits it - consists in the opening of a door by an individual, because also there can be proceeding immediately and without judicial order. But they also say: as long as '... there was not enough reason...'. For poor children those who go to a acquaintance's home to spend a few days if they do not know the DNI and the monthly costs of light, water and heating of the person to whom they go. In short, what your proposal proposes in substance is, as I have told you, more security or more bureaucracy, but certainly no more security for most people. He also recovers a classic, the one from the kick in the door, from Mr. Corcuera. I think you don't need to incorporate it to get your vote - I think you already have it - but you do. Indeed, they only need to incorporate the second amendment into the United States Constitution, which I am sure they have in mind, but they have not dared to put it on paper. I imagine that in the following no bill or bill we will get it too. You always raise the same debate, which makes us look at a tree so that we don't see the forest. In short, we are told of all this as if there was no figure of the house break-in. I clarified it once again, although I have already done so from this rostrum on more than one occasion: the house break-in includes the first house, the second house, the third, the fourth, the fifth and the sixth house, so long as one day passes in them. Therefore, we are talking only about vacant and empty dwellings. Moreover, I will tell you that the Spanish jurisdiction is so curious that it even poses as a dwelling that it can be a van or a tent. So they'll tell me what risk they're pointing at. They have told you on other occasions and I am not going to waste too much time today on giving data, because time is running out, but I will tell you that the data of occupation, of the house break-in, of what is persecutable and punishable and is already being pursued, have continued to descend since 2013. However, this matters little to you. These are data from the National Institute of Statistics and the General Council of the Judiciary. Since we are talking about the General Council of the Judiciary, little suspected of being related to any thesis with Euskal Herria Bildu, I will tell you that when you point to the forest, not to the tree you propose, you tell us that there have been 28 000 evictions in the first half of this year 2021, from January to June, that you have risen 13,4 % compared to the previous year and that the forecast is that there will be 78,000 evictions when the social shield is over. That is the sad reality, for which you never bring any initiative here, because you are not interested. That is the real problem, the present problem and the future problem, that there is no guarantee law for the right to decent and adequate housing for all. Because housing is primarily a right, not a source of savings. It will be a source of savings when everyone has a right. I conclude with a reflection which you have already pointed out from this rostrum and which applies to you and to the House as a whole. Here we talk a lot about Germany, we talk about the German locomotive, we talk about the power of Germany to lead Europe. Look at Germany, look at Berlin. I know that in the Spanish state it causes urticaria to talk about referendums, it causes urticaria to talk about expropriations and it causes urticaria to talk about public intervention, but in Germany 56% of Berlin's citizens have decided that 254,000 vulture-backed dwellings, of large forks, must be expropriated. Because the reality also in the Spanish state - one day someone would have to put the names and surnames on top of the table - is that in this state, for a long time and in the big cities, children of illustrious men or of men even of this country have been made with funds of public housing through vulture funds and large forks. They may be called Aznar, Botella or whatever, but the reality is that the house here has been given to fork funds so that there are people who have to beg where to sleep. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u11	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u12	Thank you very much, President. We have already pointed out before this House on other occasions that the phenomenon of home invasion and home usurpation that does not constitute home or real estate is a serious problem for the owners and owners, who are disturbed by the possession and peaceful enjoyment of their rights, and also sometimes, as the Ombudsman has pointed out, affects neighbours and neighbours. However, ladies and gentlemen, the best approach to this problem cannot be achieved by disregarding the exceptional vulnerability in which untitled occupants may find themselves, provided that they do not occupy the home of the victim, including his or her second residences. Nor can this problem be used, as has sometimes been done in this House, to some extent also today, to foolishly accuse the Government of indolent management and to leave the security forces and bodies helpless, to link octopus and immigration by sliding a xenophobic message or to alarm the public that their homes are in serious danger of octopus and will be in demand of costly recovery. It is a false alarm about natural persons, because after the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act in 2018, an agile response is dispensed with and available so that the ocupations of their homes and the rest of the houses can be reversed, without limit of how many houses they own, although now temporarily and in order to deal with the social and economic effects of COVID are suspended the procedures of eviction and launch for economically vulnerable people and regarding their habitual housing, if it belongs to a owner who owns more than ten houses and provided that it is not their home or that it would have been blocked with violence or intimidation. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, natural persons have an agile procedure to recover their homes expeditiously through the extraordinary bans on possessions, which at practical level has been little affected by the measures of the social shield set up, as I said to them, to limit the harmful effects of COVID on economically vulnerable people. However, the legal system does not have an agile and efficient response from criminal law to the usurpations of dwellings that do not constitute domiciles or immovables that do not constitute premises open to the public of natural and legal persons, nor does it have an agile response from civil law to legal persons for profit or physical persons if they are not dwellings. The proposal discussed now addresses the criminal response to home or real estate usurpations, both for the precautionary possession recovery and for the prosecution of conduct, being the main beneficiary of the initiative legal persons for profit, just as it is not hidden in the explanatory statement. For example, with regard to the recovery of criminal custody, police officers are assigned to arrest and evict usurpers and to hand over possession to the usurped right holder pending the subsequent judicial pronouncement. It is a regulation that we consider wrong, out of disproportionate and inadequate, when walking in the authoritarian sense of the Law on Citizens' Security, since, as some author has pointed out, public security is an obligation inherent in the activity of the public authorities, but it should not be extended until it is involved in the possession recovery of usurped homes and properties when there are judicial avenues that should be expedited rather than police officers. With regard to the prosecution of these crimes of usurpation, prompt trials are proposed, without distinguishing between the conduct used by intimidation and violence against persons from those other conducts that have not used these means to perpetrate usurpation, moving for the latter cases to the current trials for minor crimes in favor of fast trials, without giving us reason for this proposal for unitary treatment of what is different and what is different through fast trials. Nor is the initiative clear to us who is the person who can activate the actions of the police officers for the eviction and delivery of the property to their owner through complaint. Could it be someone other than the owner and owner, for example the neighbors, in the face of an inaction of any of these? If so, wouldn't we be facing a precarious rather than a usurpation? In short, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finalizing, we will not support taking the initiative into consideration for the specific reasons mentioned and because, while the property and the owners of real estate and houses must be returned to them in an agile manner the possession and enjoyment of their usurped properties and possessions, both through criminal response and civil response, we believe that the way to deal with it is not through initiatives such as the one we discuss, but through a commission to study this problem in all its dimensions and not being smaller, something that is not taken into account in the initiative, the cases of extreme economic and housing vulnerability of many people in our society or the social function that property must fulfil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Gentlemen of VOX, I want to begin by saying that this morning in the City of Madrid a councilman of VOX has used the image of a baby, of a little girl, to, in the midst of a political trifle, attack his mother. It was Begoña Villacis's newborn daughter. This is pure populism, an absolute moral lowness and an intolerable savagery, and, frankly, I want to tell you that it disgusts you very much. [[Applauds]] You complain, quite rightly, when you are assaulted, and we condemn any violence against you. So, please, in terms of reciprocity, be you gentlemen enough to come up here and publicly apologize to my partner. We are here for a scourge, for a drama, that of octopus, which has always worried my political group, Citizens, and about which we have put many initiatives. There has been an increase in cases of octopus with the pandemic by 40%, but many in this House prefer to stand on the side of criminals, prefer to stand on the side of those who violate the law and not protect those who comply with the law. In addition, see what happens, it turns out that the largest number of cases of occupation occur in Catalonia. The government has to be pleased, logically, with its independent partners and, therefore, does nothing about the crisis of authority that the state has in Catalonia, such as those we are seeing these days when the shop windows are broken and the Republican Left of Catalonia, in a hypocritical way, condemns these acts, when in the past it has encouraged them, and at the same time calls for the police to leave Via Laietana. One cannot be asking for security and, at the same time, encourage riots on the street. The octopus has a face that is the worst of all, that of organized mafias, who enter the house of peaceful people and extort them to take the money from them if they want them to unoccupied the house. Okupation is an attack on the principle or fundamental right to private property recognized in the Constitution and, also, yes, on the social role of property, of course. This is what the 21st century liberals stand for. But put yourself for a minute on the skin of those people who, with an effort, like so many here, have been paying a mortgage to own a house, we go back to our house and we find that they have forgotten it and do not give us back possession but after a long judicial process. And all that without the communities of owners and the insecurity that creates in the peace of many blocks of neighbors. Last year we put forward here an initiative - I defended it from this rostrum - and PSOE, Podemos and the friends who hold the Socialist Party in power voted no. That we can vote that does not seem to us coherent: they stand on the side of criminals, they always support those who violate the law, they always support those who disobey the law and not those who comply with the law. But, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, yours has no name: so long as you remain in power you do not want to disturb either Bildu or the Republican Left of Catalonia. Gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen of VOX, last week the government brought here a royal decree law, which you validated with your abstention, where eviction was prevented in the cases of usurpation of immovable property without violence. [[Applauds]] Let's see if you have it a little clearer. We are clear, and we have always made it clear: we need tools in the legal system to ensure that legitimate owners can be protected; that possession is immediately returned; that it is believed, that the municipal social fund of housing for vulnerable groups is built up; that the penalties for the usurpation of immovable property under article 254 of the Criminal Code are tightened when they are violent and organized by mafias; and that the municipal administration is empowered not to consolidate acts of registration in the cadastre. You copy us, but just a little bit. They put, and all right, in the prompt prosecution of certain offences under section 795 of the Criminal Procedure Act the case of usurpation, but not the case of burglary. Nor does it seem that you care about the penalties, very little deterrence, for the crime of usurpation. It has already been said here, but I will repeat it again. What is truly a legal safeguard - you could already study a little - is the amendment of section 533 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. One can enter a domicile in Spain only in cases of judicial authorization or flagrante delicto; and in cases of terrorism, only in cases of extraordinary and urgent necessity, in order to avoid the commission of the crime. You say that the police can enter anyone's house just because they suspect that there has been a usurpation. You will already tell me how the flagracity will be demonstrated in many of these cases. The Constitutional Court has already made this clear with the Corcuera Law, the Law on Kicking in the Door. Mr Marlaska, however, supports you in these events that have taken place; he has defended the police who were laying doors down because they refused to open up to see if the curfews and the restrictions of bail were being breached. It draws much attention, indeed, that you legislate in the same way as the Socialist Party defends, but, what you want me to tell you, it also draws attention to the fact that you advocate that the Administration, without judicial control, can harm fundamental rights. The People's Party also thinks like you, even though you are always scolding; remember the Pandemics Act, which said it could limit fundamental rights without judicial control. Look, I'm going to tell you, VOX, and the People's Party not to speak the liberal word in vain. [[Applauds]] To be liberal is to defend individual rights against the state, and you have an authoritarian leave, which is absolutely inescapable. Today in the House we find a majority that protects the criminals and does not protect the owners - in the case of the PNV is really amazing - and therefore this law will not come forward in the consideration. We are concerned about the omission and, despite the excesses you commit in this law, we will vote in favour. Make it clear, gentlemen of VOX. Make it clear, gentlemen of the People's Party. Citizens are very clear. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] By Plural Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u16	Thank you very much, President. Did anyone believe for a moment that VOX was going to propose a law to solve the housing problem? No, no, To solve the evictions? No, no, To control the rental prices? No, no, To recover those three thousand homes, Mrs. Esteban, three thousand social housing in Madrid sold to a vulture fund at a balance price and start recovering that social housing that worries you so much? Of course not! VOX, and the right in general, hasn't come here to that. It comes to what comes: one, to encourage fear; two, to serve and protect the interests of banks, vulture funds and security companies. Nine out of ten dwellings occupied belong to vulture funds or banks. Arrived here, the proposal will not come out. Mr Bal has called it a legal safeguard - I repeat, a legal safeguard - and he is a judge. It will not come out, but if we were to come out we would introduce some amendment to exclude from this reform those who have built and sold flats without a building permit and without a housing permit, those who have rented premises without an urban license; in short, those who have broken the law and look elsewhere. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Before accepting their vows to rule together in Madrid - you know, dear Edmundo, that I say it with great personal respect - VOX was that. [[Applauds]] It's okay to apologize to them, but it's best not to rule with them. And you know I repudiate the photo they've posted just like you, but that was when you accepted their votes. This is the usual. It is a VOX initiative to be strong with the weak and weak with the strong. Is there a problem with the usurpation of empty houses and mafias in Spain? There is. Are there any legal instruments to combat it? Yes, but there is a structural reality that makes it possible, that in Spain we have the paradox of having millions of empty houses and, at the same time, millions of Spaniards with difficulty in exercising their right to a home. And why is this happening? How can there be millions of empty homes and millions of people in a country who need access to housing? Well, look out, because this is going to interest you, because it's from foreigners; it's more, it's from foreign bands, which is already the summum for you. I quote some of these bands, organized groups that retain homes and make it impossible for the Spaniards to access the right to a home. There is a band called Blackstone, which retains more than 220,000 homes. There is a band that is made called Cerberus, which accumulates 150,000 floors. Another one, Lone Star, 77,000 floors. There is a band, called Goldman Sachs, so powerful that it even managed to get the Government of the Community of Madrid to give it 3,000 houses at a sale price, but it has not yet returned them. These bands speculate on the floors, detain them, harass neighbors and make life more difficult for Spanish families, but they never get a single reproach on their part. Why? If they harass Spaniards, hinder the right to housing and hinder coexistence in neighborhoods, why not a single reproach? Because you - I'm going to repeat it here until I'm speechless - are cruel to the weak but with the strong you don't dare and bend your ears. There is a real housing problem, but you have to bring it in and you have to deal with it seriously, and this is just a real estate brochure. And there's two already in a week. You did the ridiculous thing not long ago in Móstoles: you went to the door of La Casika, an emblematic social center in Móstoles, disguised your militants, those who posed as neighbors - you have caught them - to say how bad the social center was and how bad it was.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u19	Mr. Errejón, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u20	Two ridiculouss in a week is an inadmissible thing, even for you, gentlemen of VOX. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u22	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. There is a serious problem of access to housing, but there is also a social problem that can be distinguished from the previous problem of access to housing, which is that of illegal occupations by criminal networks. But the way VOX deals with this issue is by no means shared. It is not with populism that we are going to face this social problem. We're still hallucinated by the speech we've heard. We denounce the rhetoric of fear and denounce populist appeals to private property. We find it abominable that they are constantly talking about the alleged impunity of the criminals in order to always point to them and justify the only solution that happens to them, which is nothing other than increasing the prerogatives and discretion of the police and a series of criminal misconceptions - Mr Oskar Matute has explained very well and I will not repeat them - a legal safeguard to which the citizens' deputies are still going to vote in favour. There is a reality, and we cannot close our eyes. The mafias, in fact, locate empty floors, whoever they are, break down the doors and rent them, obtaining a very high profit at the expense of the precariousness of others, taking advantage of the slowness of the legal procedures. There are other mafias, it's true, mafias that no one is going to report, but these criminal mafias that occupy empty floors also exist. But we do not share that the solution is the criminal route. In this sense, in March 2017, who was the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, Lourdes Ciuró, and the current councillor of Justicia de la Generalitat de Catalunya, presented a legislative initiative, which had its origin in a proposal of the Bar Association of Barcelona, to amend the Civil Prosecution Act - civil, non-criminal - and to establish a specific procedure to guarantee the possession of houses whose ownership was of individual owners. A proposal referring exclusively to housing, not to buildings in general, as referred to in the VOX initiative, and only in relation to the ownership of natural persons, not of banks or large holders, although it also protected housing intended for social purposes by NGOs or public administrations. Moreover, as it could not otherwise be, the proposal provided for a housing solution to be granted to persons evicted at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, the thousands of evictions, the vulture funds, the difficulty in access to housing, are a profound social problem. Access to housing should be recognized as a genuine constitutional right and not as a simple mandate to the public authorities, in the form of a guiding principle of social and economic policy, and there should be a full involvement of the administrations in public housing policies - building a public housing park, promoting social rent, limiting rents, tax policies against real estate speculation, among many other measures -. But, we insist, it is also true that the phenomenon of the illegal occupation of housing by criminal networks exists and must be faced, but not by criminal means, but by the civil and guaranteeing means already pointed out by Congresswoman Ciuro in 2017. For all these reasons, we are not going to support the legislative initiative of VOX. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Pagés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u24	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. The characteristic of the parliamentary debate is that it is a debate and therefore it has to do with listening to us, responding to us and altering what we were going to say if some Members have said it before - and I refer to fellow Members Mireia Vehí and Oskar Matute, with whom I agree in their arguments - and it also has to do with replicating when, from your humble point of view, barbarities are unleashed from this rostrum. The deputy Bal has made an intervention in which he has mixed the broken windows on the occasion of the feast of the Mercè with the independenceists, the Okupas, with what the government needs, which had no meaning, but it has made me feel good, because it has nothing to do with the housing, but, already put, I take the opportunity to demand that the comment on Via Laietana be withdrawn that they were generations of public service, because they were generations of torturers, of abusers and of total impunity of the State in Barcelona. [[applause]] In passing, I comment: look, please, at the request to return to the city of Barcelona of that police station so that it becomes something much more worthy, a museum of horrors than what happened there, so that no one will ever forget it. Having said that, I turn to the issue of housing, because it is not a ballad theme. They looked at criminals a while ago who might be considered usurpers of a real estate - which, by the way, has already been differentiated by house break-in and, therefore, need not make the reference -, and now I'm going to tell you some things that happen. It was in 2006, things didn't go completely wrong, a couple sign a mortgage, spend the years, lose their jobs, have been paid with the Hamburg interest about a third - because they are going to pay three times what the floor is worth; Hamburg interest; that's legal. Someday we'll have to look at what we mean by usury interests and what we mean by speculation -, and it turns out you can get rid of, evictions like the 28,000 that there has been in the last quarter. Are you telling me that a State that is capable of disposing of 28 000 people who have committed no crime but to remain in a home for which they had title, are you telling me that that State is not capable of resolving criminal matters? And are you telling me that in order to enable the State to resolve criminal matters - which may exist, I do not deny it; I too have spoken to Ricardo and Pilar, and I am also in solidarity with his suffering - that State has to have more chance of entering the homes and putting on the ground without even a court order? Is that the solution? It is a disgrace to the state, because it has all the elements it uses against what is, in fact, the vulnerable, low and middle classes of the state. There is one reflection: I did not want to intervene today, and I did not want to intervene because most of the time VOX's policy consists in insuffering fear, insuffering the feeling that everything is about to be a global hecatomb, a disaster, and therefore we must react with force, authoritarianism, police, military, pride and honor. But that doesn't take into account the polyhedral of reality, the greys inherent in social activity, and it denied me that it was a pediment again, because then we couldn't explain to people that, even if they have a good job today, even if they have a good salary today, tomorrow maybe they have nothing. Therefore, the number of people who are likely to need are either social shields, whether they are elements that allow them to stay in their homes, those that have perhaps only stopped paying rent because they have gone wrong with work or business or business, those that have paid much of the mortgage, but perhaps now they cannot follow for the same reasons, those that were their homes, when they continue in them, when they remain, when they follow their life path without that enabling title, are considered criminals. What I would like to make understand is that, apart from the situation in Catalonia, which, in fact, and not by the independenceists, is that we are fined for it, but despite the independenceists, four out of every five empty floors belong to banks - four out of every five -; they do not belong to those people whose private property, theoretically, is being - how do they say it? - raped. What I was saying to you, what I want to make understand is that most people, with the legislation that you propose, are going to be victims, because that legislation is not for those of us who suffer what happens every day in the work, in the ERTOs, in the rent increases, no; that legislation is only for the great possessors, for those of us always. I do not want to be demagogic, I do not like to leave the world between rich and poor, because what I have not been able to make understand is that the poor are 90% of this state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Group of the United Nations, Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u26	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Once again we are discussing a VOX proposal which we have already discussed on more than one occasion. Bring one of your star themes, and the question is why and for what. Let's start by clarifying some concepts. The lordships of VOX intend to mix and confuse in an interesting way - I believe - the concepts of usurpation and trespassing. Okupation, i.e. usurpation, which you want to penalize more and more, never affects habitual housing, second residence, third residence, fourth residence, but mostly we are talking about empty buildings, in disuse, belonging to vulture funds, investment funds or banks. Where the crime affects the habitual housing, it is a matter of trespassing. It is contained in the Penal Code, as you well know, and it is allowed to act with the Judiciary in a fairly quick way, but all this is known. As I say, this confusion is not a mistake; they do it in a totally interesting way. Why? Because the main goal at the end is to put the octopus in the point of view as a great danger, but for what? To cry out and to frighten the good people, because you, lords of the far right, feed on fear. Their claim is nothing but to create noise, tension, fear, criminalize collectives and create disagreements. They're not trying to solve anything. The question, therefore, is: does your approach respond to some kind of social need? No, of course not. You proclaim to the four winds a supposed great danger that stalks all neighbors and neighbors, that if you go out one day to make the purchase or to go for a ride or if you leave for the weekend, when you return you will find your house ocupated by a group of strangers, and you will not be able to recover it. You, lords of the far right, of course, are the only ones who care about this issue and appear such as, like the Lonely Landlord, to save the poor owner of that great threat. You are going to allow me to tell you, gentlemen of the far right, that you have a delusional scenario, which does not correspond at all to reality at all. I give some data very quickly. Far from being acts that are increasing, the data show us that in Spain there is a constant decrease of this type of actions. INE data, conviction data for break-in in the last few months: in 2016 it was 357 and in the middle of the year we have been, 185. If we talk about usurpation - source INE -, if in 2016 we talked about just over six thousand, now we are talking about 3100. Therefore, one wonders what they want to do. Really, what do you want to defend, gentlemen of the far right, with this proposal, working families, youth or rather - there I want to stop - vulture funds? Or maybe they're interested in expanding and enlarging the private security business? Since octopus, i.e. usurpation, affects in most cases, as you well know, empty floors or in disuse, which usually belong, in addition, as you well know, mostly to large forks, vulture funds, investment funds, what is sought with this measure is to pave the ground even more to investment funds, vulture funds, so that they take over more housing and can undo it more quickly. It is not too much, therefore, to know something about this which you defend, that is, about the interests of investment funds, well called vulture funds. After the 2008 financial crisis, when the People's Party came to power in 2011, it was in charge of giving all the facilities to these vulture funds, to put them - let's say - the red carpet. Investment funds or vulture funds, which operate in the Spanish real estate sector, have since taken advantage of great privileges. Their big business lies in the tax benefits and management of thousands of homes that they have bought in our country at a balance price, and that end up selling at a gold price and renting with abusive income. That's the business, pure speculation and the rentist and parasitic economy. That's the situation. Investment funds only pay 1% of corporate tax and, if we talk about the Companies, nothing at all. Both benefit from a 95 % deduction from the capital transfer tax. Under these conditions vulture funds have come to acquire, at least - I think there are more - 400,000 housing units for speculative purposes. In VOX they are said to be very patriots, but it is a fact that most of the money invested in the Spanish real estate market comes from foreign companies - Blackstone, Cerberus - and that the profits obtained by them do not, of course, remain precisely in Spain. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that these speculative operations have a direct impact on the ability of our people to access or maintain decent housing. You were talking about examples. I'm going to put some of them in relation to very close cases. Let's talk about abusive practices by the vulture funds, and I'm going to refer to my city, Donosti, one of the cities that, by the way, has the most expensive rental prices. We have the case of the vulture Azora fund, which acquired no less than three hundred houses from the Vascongada Real Estate in different neighborhoods of the city, and has subjected the neighbors to harassment to throw them out and raise their rent 30, 40 or 50 %. We could also talk about some other case in which there is a collaboration even of the Sareb, in the neighborhood of Egia, where there are twelve neighbors, twelve people who want to be evicted because they can no longer pay the rent. Among those affected is a 87-year-old woman who has been in her home for five years and, after her husband passed away a year ago, who was the owner of the house, did not renew the contract and could not register. We could also talk about the purchase of housing by Esta Socimi in the neighborhood of Benta Berri; the same situation. Therefore, in the end, we find fewer homes dedicated to fulfilling their social function - serving as housing and home for families - and more dedicated to speculation and the imposition of abusive incomes for the social majority. In conclusion, what this country needs - and urgently - is a good housing law, which regulates the real estate market, prohibiting speculation - as reflected in article 47 of the Constitution - a law that controls the price of abusive rents and makes the constitutional right to decent housing not a wet paper, but a real right for everyone and everyone. Eskerrik asko. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u28	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Today I want my first words to be for our neighbors in La Palma. [[Applauds]] A message of courage and strength, especially to those who have lost their homes. And I want to tell them we won't forget them. Ladies and gentlemen, a couple of Saturdays ago we were a few Members of this House looking after and listening to citizens from all over Spain, who concentrated here, in front of Congress, to protest against the ocupation and protest against the government, for allowing, for legalizing, for laundering to attack with impunity private property and to allow themselves to occupy their homes, to allow a whole working life to be denied, to steal mercilessly, to allow pensioners' resources to be usurped without punishment, and to make a crime such as taking possession of something that is not yours to be considered the same as that which invests the savings of a lifetime. And it's sad: it's sad, and the punishment is for the owners, because the consequences of the crime, in this case, fall on the victims. The criminals have all the rights and no obligation, and that's what those people told, stories that are not urban legends, lords of Podemos, that are not right-wing lies, that are real stories, of real people. And from here, I want to send a message of encouragement to all those who suffer the octopus and to all those who have joined together to fight and work against this scourge that the government protects. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do you have any answers for these people? Do they have any solution for these victims other than the mantra they constantly repeat that housing is going to be a priority of the Socialist Party, which they also say without blushing? This is amazing because, what have you done since you were in the government? To implement the People's Party Housing Plan and a package of social measures, rent subsidies that have not worked and anti-discharge decrees that are renewed every two months, and the worst they have done has been to legalize the okupation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating the consideration of a proposal for a law on VOX, amending the Criminal Procedure Act, for the inclusion of the crime of usurpation in the fast-track proceedings. We are going to vote in favour, because it is a consideration and, although we believe that the VOX proposal is insufficient and much better, we believe that in some way it helps in the face of the tremendous insecurity that the owners have. Furthermore, we want to keep talking in this House about okupation, to make it clear that okupation is a crime and that okupar is stealing. This proposal, of course, is short, because from the People's Party we propose that the phenomenon of octopus be dealt with in its entirety, that it be dealt with in an integral way, and that it be legislated taking into account the whole cluster of collateral circumstances that accompany the phenomenon of octopus, of octopus as a crime. Look, the owners of octopus properties are in a situation of legal insecurity and lack of protection when they are stripped of their property. And then there are the problems of the buildings as a whole and the low security conditions in the cities, the risk in the neighborhood as a whole by these attitudes. This also affects the public system, additional costs for the administration, more police, more services, cleaning. It's that you don't see it, but this affects you in many ways. Then, we all know that there are two different cases when we talk about ocupation. But this should not relieve the Government of its responsibilities, because, on the one hand - as has already been said - there are organized criminal groups, profiting from this ocupation and the victim, and anti-system movements, which do not respect the right to housing and use public and private property for their own benefit. The second case is those in a vulnerable situation who occupy a housing out of need, and deserve our every effort so that they can return to their original economic and social conditions, but not at the expense of other people's properties. But, as I said before, we must give a clear, forceful and comprehensive response that deals with eviction, citizen security, mafia, the rights now enjoyed by the Okupas, the power to denounce, the increase in the penalties of criminals. Our proposal is to amend two laws, not only the distinction between usurpation and trespassing; ocupation itself is a crime, and with the law of the People's Party an okupa is evicted in twelve hours. The mafia have prison sentences, the denunciation action can be done by the community of owners represented by its president. It is already good that the neighbours have to suffer vandalism in our common areas and basic supplies, such as the fires with Badalona victims. Okupas cannot be registered under the law of the People's Party. Our bill is an integral and indivisible project that resolves all the circumstances collateral to the phenomenon of otupation, is the treatment of otupation as a criminal offence, the defense of private property, the guarantee of citizen security, the protection against mafia and the restriction of the rights of those who commit a crime. And I assure you that it will be ensured that administrations do their job in the case of vulnerable families. What cannot be done is to place the burden of failed housing policy on private property; the theft of constitutional social policy rights cannot be disguised. And do not confuse, gentlemen of the government, give a solution to these people, to whom the Okupas usurp the effort of a lifetime. And if it is not the solution of the People's Party, let it be another, but what cannot be done is to be profiled. We will support this proposal for a law on VOX because we want solutions, we want to keep talking about the opt-out, so this initiative must continue its process, which we amend and will be able to improve. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sarrià Morell has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Esteban, you bring to your consideration a proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, based on an alleged lack of legal instruments and on the inability of the State Security Forces and Bodies to combat property theft offences, which, in your view - I read your statement textually - generates growing concern in the majority of Spaniards - who, of course, are arrogant - and that impunity becomes a widespread social feeling - is there on the street, in your view. Well, to that, to generate concern responds this proposal and all the initiatives that on this matter have brought to these Courts, both you and your members of the EP even citizens, and to that they also respond their infamous campaigns on social networks, with the sole objective of generating social alarm, whatever it costs. Well, perhaps it also responds - as some intervener has pointed out - to the objective of encouraging disturbing companies or groups that guarantee illegal evictions, as in the case recently known in which we could see them acting in a false octopus, also adorned with xenophobic dyes - how not, in their case -. It's you who are alarming. Those who generate anxiety with their spread of bubbles, lies and half truths are you. Because you know, even if you deny it, that we have very extensive instruments to combat these crimes and that in recent years, both the Government and other State institutions, have acted to improve the response to the problem of illegal housing otupation, which is - let me tell you - years light of the figures in which you mix complaints, convictions and all kinds of statistics: the Attorney General's Office, through an instruction, to unify criteria in relation to crimes of trespassing and usurpation of real estate. The Ministry of the Interior, through a protocol of action, clarifies in detail the role of the Police and the Civil Guard in dealing with these crimes and the different situations in which they can occur, precisely in order to provide them with greater security in their action against them. In addition to the Ministry of the Interior's AlertCops application, which has included a new alert to communicate immediately by any citizen or witness any break-in or usurpation of a property. And, of course, at the legislative level, precisely in order to give an agile and rapid response to these situations, the law amending the Civil Prosecution Act was adopted in relation to the occupancy of housing. But you try, constantly and deliberately, to confuse the citizenry, matching, as has been pointed out, house invasion and usurpation of real estate. In short, this is what they propose today in practice, when they know perfectly well that, in the first case, in homes or second or third residences - as has also been pointed out in previous interventions - the eviction is immediate; and that, in the case of usurpation, it is the judge who can ultimately establish the relevant and precautionary measures, depending on the information provided by the State Security Forces and Bodies, because it is not the same crime, however much they are committed to unifying their treatment. Both have to be faced, and we agree, but not since the fallacious simplification you practice. They know perfectly well that more than 80% of empty real estate occupations affect large real estate holders or financial institutions. By the way, strangely, on many occasions and without failing to provide such entities with legal and economic means, they do not make use of the legal instruments at their disposal to proceed with such disappearances. It is a strange phenomenon, but I invite you to check it in several Spanish cities, because, in some cases, we are talking about organized mafias, that we must fight with all the energy and force that allows the law, but in others we are talking about people or families in a situation of social vulnerability, and the actions of the public authorities must take care, within our legal framework, of those various circumstances, which you care little or nothing about. However, we do care about situations of people without housing alternatives arising from an exceptional situation generated by the pandemic, which has worsened further if there are difficulties in accessing housing for the most disadvantaged, and we regard it as a political and moral obligation. We therefore approve the suspension of evictions and launches in these cases, which is not imperative, as you suggest, but a power of the judge and the courts, provided that, of course, it has not mediated violence or intimidation, being, in any case, a temporary measure, as long as this situation lasts. As far as you and your partners in the PP and the other liberal right are concerned, we are very proud not to turn our backs on these situations, as we are absolutely committed to guaranteeing the constitutional right to decent housing, i.e. not only in relation to combating the consequences of the shortage of affordable housing, but to remedy the cause, which is not other than the absence for years by the right-wing government of housing policies, Mrs Zurita, beyond facilitating, as is well known, the bubbles and real estate balls that we still carry. You are in this, as in almost everything else, on the Trampist agenda, dedicated to sowing fear, to generating catastrophe, and the saddest thing is that you do it accompanied by your PP partners, who at some point will have to look at your European correspondents and stop making the fat broth to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Sarrià. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, in common, in common, in general, of mental health. [[File number 122/00158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u32	We continue with the next item on the agenda, concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, General of Mental Health. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u33	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today my parliamentary group brings to this Congress of Deputies, the seat of popular sovereignty, a very important law. Today we bring the proposal for a general mental health law, and this is the first clear message I want to leave: We think it is a matter of state. For everyone to understand that this is no exaggeration, let me provide some data, as terrible as eloquent. According to the latest studies, in Spain one in ten people over 15 years of age has been diagnosed with some mental health problem; almost five million compatriots. In turn, 6.7% of the population, more than three million people, are affected by anxiety, and a similar number by depression. In 2018 we had to mourn more than 3500 deaths due to suicide, this being the first cause of non-natural death in Spain; 3500 deaths due to suicide and a number twenty times the number of attempts. And if these data are already terrible, there are two elements that allow us to say that, in fact, they are even worse: the first, that we talk about diagnoses and official figures, that is, cases that are out of date and recorded, and it is certain that many cases are still hidden; the second is that, unfortunately, these figures have increased significantly with the epidemic of COVID-19. The magnitude of the problem is terrible and, although the numbers seem cold, it must be remembered that behind them there is a huge amount of human pain. However, and that is why we are here today presenting this law, the deployment of resources and legislation that the problem demands, regrettably, shines out of its absence. This is the second message I want to make very clear today: Public institutions have not lived up to this problem. That is why we are introducing this law, because it is time for the public authorities to take this issue seriously, and it is time for us to move from debate to action. And the bloodiest proof that this has not yet happened in Spain is the huge human resource deficit in the public mental health system. According to the most generous estimates, in Spain we have six professionals in psychology, ten in psychiatry and ten in nursing for every 100,000 inhabitants. The European average, respectively, is eighteen, eighteen and twenty-three, between the double and triple that in Spain, which is a shame, which prevents our excellent professionals from carrying out their work as they would like, creates deficits in the care of unacceptable patients, which makes it possible for only those who can afford it to have access to quality care, and, ultimately, is the crux of the matter. In our general mental health law we set out the obligation of public administrations to achieve the European average ratios in four years. And here I want to be very clear again with the third important message: Any legal text or strategy that does not take concrete and firm commitments to significantly increase ratios will remain in good words and in wet paper. This is the central point of the law that we are presenting today, but, since it is a comprehensive law, it obviously also adopts amendments in many other respects. To mention briefly some of the most important, this law introduces specific obligations to combat stigma and discrimination; it also provides for the adoption of public prevention programmes, including the prevention of suicide; and it also sets out, in a novel way, the employer's obligation to protect the mental health of its workers as part of the prevention of workplace risks. Finally, it should be noted that this law places the autonomy of patients at the centre and for the first time in our country collects a broad declaration of the rights of people with mental health problems. Therefore, given the seriousness of the problem, I humbly request the support of all groups in this House for the consideration of this legislative text. And if that support was not possible, I ask, at least, for a respectful debate. I sincerely believe that we would be doing people with mental health problems a little favor if someone came out today to the rostrum to utter thick adjectives or disqualifications. Our parliamentary group believes that this law can be a gigantic step forward from the public to prevent, care for and accompany people with mental health problems. And I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the people in the area of health, to the excellent technical teams that have given legal credit to the text and also to the groups of professionals and patients who have made contributions. But we also think that we would be trapping the lonely as a country if we did not speak clearly of the systemic causes following the mental health epidemic - and I want to end this - first of all of the economic causes. Numerous studies indicate this and it is also evident that poverty, precarious work and vital, uncertainty about the future are important conditions for mental health problems. As long as we continue to suffer from a neoliberal capitalist system that generates more millionaires, while at the same time generating poorer and more precariousness and stealing the present and future from young people and not so young, unfortunately mental health problems will continue to increase, and this must be made clear, it must be made clear and action must be taken accordingly. But not only are the economic causes, there are also important cultural and discursive causes, which, at the same time as they serve to support and legitimize the social order of neoliberal capitalism, have the capacity to generate stress, anxiety, anguish and serious loss of self-esteem in people: first, the discourse of hatred and the stigmatization of certain collectives. The incidence of mental health problems and suicide attempts is, for example, much higher among young women or people in the LGTBI collective who have been bullied in school, and these are data. Secondly, the very profitable commodity of fear is an obvious source of anguish and anxiety. What else can you feel if you are bombed day by day with fake news about whether there is an invasion of immigrants or that you can take care of the house when you go down to buy the bread? Finally, perhaps the most important element, the fundamental core of neoliberal capitalist ideology, the maximum that, if you strive hard enough, you will achieve what you propose. The effort is very important in life, of course it is, but this neoliberal maxim is simply a lie. There are a lot of people who make a lot of effort every day and yet for different reasons they do not see that effort rewarded, sometimes for simple bad luck, most of the time for start-up socio-economic inequalities. There are already countless studies that indicate that a better predictor of wealth than effort is how much money dad has. The maximum is false, but it fulfils a double function: first, it suggests that those who have much is because they have worked hard and therefore deserve it, and, secondly, it also deduces from it its cruel and equally false reverse: if you have gone wrong in life it is because you have not worked hard enough, it is because you are a vague and it is your fault. The rich deserve to be rich and the poor deserve to be poor. The truth is, it's not very subtle. If we really care about people with mental health problems, in addition to passing laws such as the one I have the honour of presenting today, we also have an obligation to dismantle this infamous neoliberal discourse that seeks to add to material deficiencies and vital uncertainty the humiliation and social reproach of humble people. He ended up, therefore, directing me from the seat of popular sovereignty to you, which is difficult for you to reach the end of the month and you see the future with uncertainty and anguish. Make it clear we're going to leave our skin to help you, and don't let anyone tell you you're guilty of your precariousness. That's cruel and it's also a lie. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor in the first place, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. It plans one of the two parties that make up the Government to take into consideration a general mental health law, which is a parliamentary initiative on a matter of very particular importance and concern to society as a whole. However, the basic and specific model to which this legislative initiative leads would lead us to a very complex and colossal competitional, budgetary and human resource-enhancing galaxy, which in practice would be intractable to advance in a better and more effective response to the treatment and care of mental diseases, increased and aggravated as a consequence of the very serious pandemic period that the world has been suffering since the beginning of 2020. It should also be borne in mind that in Spain there is in no way a question of the existence of legislative gaps. And, Mr. Echenique Robba, state issues are discussed and agreed among all, not by this formula of what you take or leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is similar to the one tabled by the same group in the XII Legislature and which has fallen, but everything points out that today its objective is not to provide legislative progress, but to achieve political leadership, and also to do so in contradiction with its blue-bank colleagues, with whom the United We can sign a government agreement at the end of 2019 that envisages the updating of the Mental Health Strategy. Do you not trust your partners and the fulfillment of what you have agreed? Remember that such a strategy was committed by Pedro Sánchez in his investiture speech and his approval announced by the Minister of Health for the next quarter, after receiving half a thousand allegations and contributions from autonomous communions and medical and scientific societies. In short, what is important for Spain today is to have this mental health strategy, accompanied by an adequate budget allocation, which I fear will be very little. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u37	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the PRC we are going to approve the consideration of this proposal for a law, which must be an appropriate legal framework for this problem which has been demanding visibility and solutions for a long time. The need, of course, has been greatly increased during the pandemic. According to the report of the Confederation of Mental Health, a striking 46% of the population experienced an increase in psychological discomfort during confinement. Finally, mental health has always been conditioned by multiple psychological, economic, social, biological factors, which I am not going to develop, but I can say that mental health, in a broad sense, is the basis of happiness, which is an important objective for human beings, and we can affirm that one of the fundamental reasons for unhappiness corresponds to these problems. I believe that it is almost as important as physical health, in addition to the importance of its correlation, and it has an advantage in committing it, and it is not as expensive as that, it is not necessary to spend as much money on importing sophisticated medicines or devices, which are worth millions of euros. All these factors I point out need multisectoral policies and interventions to improve it. This text has many things - among other things, it covers the rights of vulnerable groups in relation to the rights of children, adolescents, women with mental health problems - but the fundamental thing I believe will be coordination with the autonomous communities, which are competent in this area. In Cantabria there is currently a team working to evaluate and update the Mental Health Plan 2013-2019, with a future strategy based on a network of experts for 2026, and this new plan has an integral vision aimed at humanization. Well, I think that this new plan - given the example of Cantabria, but it will also happen in other autonomous communities - needs to be coordinated with a national strategy, so it is a very important result of the processing of this law, which I hope will be greatly improved throughout the parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u39	Thank you, President. It is important what this bill proposes as measures: more psychologists and psychiatrists in the public system, specific devices for the prevention of suicide and care, and not discrimination against people with disabilities. These are essential, but we must not forget that disorder, depression, anxiety, suicide are not individual ailments, but social and that the fact that there are more and more people affected by mental health - this is even prior to the pandemic, and they also have to see class and gender, as has already been mentioned - shows that the economic system has a lot to do with mental health; a system that promotes that people become entrepreneurs of ourselves, as the explanatory statement suggests, which is nothing more than a brutal advocacy of individualism, is intended to generate discomfort. And how do we tackle this discomfort? Pablo Sánchez Crespo, psychologist, in a recent article talked about cowardly psychology, which, despite the evidence - the ones I was pointing out - of the implications of the socio-economic system on mental health, prefers not to get involved in politics, not to question this system, to remain apolitical; a psychology that perhaps works, like the circus network under the trapecists, to care for those who fall, without even considering what from the point of view of mental health it is interesting to consider, how do the pirouettes do, who sends them to do them, who is the master of the circus who commands to do these trapecists' pirouettes, and why more and more quickly and intensely. Leaving aside the metaphor, I give you a more concrete example. You know what's very good for mental health? Retirement, and not just retirement itself, but the certainty in previous years that one can enjoy retirement on time and with a decent pension, sufficient to live that moment in full. On the other hand, to propose that in order to have such a pension sufficient what will have to be done is to work more and more years because the work will remain precarious goes in the direction absolutely contrary to the mental health of a society; and not only pensions, also housing, education, health, the income necessary to guarantee the material independence of people, the right to live sexuality freely or the time for community life. Therefore, in the absence of this for mental health, more psychologists and psychiatrists are needed, but also more rights, more material conditions and more sharing of work and wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u41	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. It is no coincidence that in these times the sufferings on mental illness increase, at a time when we all know that poverty and unemployment are structural causes and yet poverty, being poor or fear of being poor live it individually, with shame, with great tension or as a stressful factor. This is one of the greatest stressors we have right now, which is really creating a great increase in suffering. The fear of being excluded, the fear of being excluded, the fear of being different: it is the pressure of the individualism of neoliberalism, which makes the person responsible for everything, when we are victims of a system. If we were able to make a reading, to stop postures of response to this attack of individualism, surely we began to improve this health system. We are going to support this proposal, and we are going to do so because it seems to us that it is essential to create a debate in this society about where we have to respond in terms of mental health. Returning to the idea I have just pointed out, the increase in the number of mental health problems is not a coincidence. In fact, that is why we ask the minister what will be done about it. We were told that the strategy paper was being prepared and that one of the concrete elements in which progress was being made was precisely that of child psychiatry, in professional recognition and carrying out studies in that regard. However, that is not enough, what we have to do is a real diagnosis and respond urgently to the real situations that are happening in hospitals, in health centers and in families. We have to respond to reality with real strategies, and we have to do something different from what is being done so far. It's not worth doing more of the same, we have to do something radically different. If the rest of the health system is lacking, the mental health system is having much more deficiencies than others, and not only is it based on poor care. Moreover, the distinction and distinction between mental health services is precisely a question of how to respond to dignity and human rights. But if you don't have the means, if you don't have the time, if there are no professionals, if there are no strategies to respond, we will hardly deal with the different types of problems, which are increasing. I would suggest that there are three ways to deal with the problem of a health plan. The first thing is to see how different types of mental health evolve, because we have common mental disorders, serious mental disorders, and those that specifically affect certain groups. At this time the big problem is that the increase in serious mental disorders is neutralizing and grabbing the response capacity of health centers and professionals, and, of course, in particular, this is making it very difficult to respond to the most common sufferings in different groups, such as people in prisons, residences, hospitals, etc. As far as under-staffing is concerned, I believe that the project is correct because it consists not only of having psychiatrists, psychiatric professionals, but also of those professional categories that can give direct attention to patients in reference to all that other symptomatology that is less serious. Here we have the whole subject of psychologists, specialized nursing, social services and a fundamental element, which is the professional reference of mentally ill people, a person who constantly follows up and has to resort to the patient and the family in crises. That is another of the basic shortcomings that we would have to face in this plan. Within the urgency and within the specifics of a health plan, I understand that we have to look at the inadequate practices that currently exist within the mental health sector due to the saturation and inability to respond that the system has. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the professionals who are working in the sector and who are responding as they can, spending hours, with dedication, but who are really orphaned by means and aid in this regard. That is where we have the problem of burning staff syndrome, to which we have to respond urgently. With regard to inadequate practices, individual rights of patients are currently being violated. There is a wide range of actions in which we are unable to respond adequately, with dignity and to meet individual personal needs. This is partly because of this deterioration, but also in this it has to see a social issue that is very serious: a social fear is being created with regard to mental illness; a risk is being seen in the mentally ill; a rush is being demanded; tolerance is being lost to the different person, and a pressure is also being created in the mental health system that is leading us to these inadequate practices of medication, retention and institutionalization that we need to review. So, cheer up, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u42	Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u43	Above all, we will be very demanding in the participation of families, professionals and professionals, who are those who are living day by day in this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u45	Good afternoon and thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, especially you, Mr Echenique, who is bringing us this debate here. You appealed and appealed to humility to expose and present the topic that brought us to debate. I'm going to make an appeal and I'm going to appeal to honesty so I can argue with you. I want to be honest, on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group, about how we see this approach brought to us by your parliamentary group. First of all, I must allow myself to say to you that it is critical that, being the parliamentary group that supports the Government and being you in the Government, it seems that you are making an amendment to the whole of the Government's action in this matter, bringing here a proposal for a law promoting a number of measures. Moreover, in case it will not be executed, it could be a kind of political deception that would generate frustration. Today you said that they brought a very important law to debate and, frankly, I think it is true. The issue is deeply important, but we do not believe that the law is the way we have to address it. You also made an appeal and said that there is a lot of pain - there is a lot of pain and there is a lot of suffering - and, in addition, you also made reference to stigma. Precisely, for all the pain that this debate brings to the people who suffer from the diseases and their closest community environments - family, friends, friends and the society that surrounds them -, in addition to the pain to which we have to respond, that stigma must also be answered seriously. We have a feeling that since, fortunately, the subject has entered the media debate and also the political debate, we are approaching it in a somewhat hasty way, a little bit to the race, and that is probably not the way to approach it. We believe that it needs to be dealt with more rigorously, more seriously and by making a more practical, realistic and legal analysis within the regulatory framework that we have in place. Having one's own mental health law, when that is not the way that is established in the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System to make an integral approach to the various pathologies, would probably also be stigmatizing in itself. Why a mental health law and not a law of other pathologies? Why? That's the first question we should ask. Do we contribute positively or is what we are doing helping to stigmatize when we are altering and distorting the path that the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System establishes and has regulated to address it? That is the integral plans, not the laws; it is the integral plans for which, as Mr Martínez Oblanca said, it is absolutely necessary that there be budgetary allocation. A comprehensive plan is much more important - which, as you said, addresses in a comprehensive way how we should respond to this question and with budgetary resources to enable action to really take place - to a law or strategy that ends up in the drawer. Unfortunately, there are many occasions when that has happened and we have to make sure that it is not. Indeed, data on those affected as a result of the pandemic have increased, and even more so in the most vulnerable groups: boys, girls, children, the youth group and the elderly. We must therefore respond, but I would constantly appeal to the necessary seriousness and rigour to address the debate. Let us flee from the need to get the headlines and from that race to see who puts the debate in the middle and who achieves things, because with prudence, serenity and great rigour we will be able to make progress in ways that will eventually be much more durable. You were talking about that in the law they're going to include ratios. You know that the look with which the Basque Group examines in this rostrum all the issues that come to debate, is always a look of defense of the competitive framework, and there are several proposals that you have defended - you are the person who has defended them, but they are from your parliamentary group - which are competitive invasions. In particular, I will tell you that the repeated proclamation of citizens' rights to which you referred is redundant. It is already contained in the General Health Act, the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System, the Dependency Act and the Basic Act regulating patient autonomy. The minimum ratios that are established are a matter of human resources management, which is clearly the competence of the autonomous communities. In addition, in the proposed legislation, they empower the Government to make all the regulatory development, when this completely exceeds what is provided for in article 149.1.16(a) of the Constitution. We're going to do things as planned. It is reasonable that such a jurisdictional distribution is respected and that no more organs are generated when others already exist for these functions. I'll give you an example. You argue that the figure of the mental health patient's advocacy is created when, in the case of Euskadi, we have artekoa and, among its functions, they have perfectly attributed the defense of these patients. I insist that we do not create a whole network of figures that all they do is contribute precisely to further stigmatizing the collective. In the State they have the Ombudsman, who could perfectly defend the interests of the collective. If you want to update the service portfolio, you have the procedure set out in the Cohesion and Quality Act, which is that you have to take it to the Inter-Territorial Council for a prior procedure, a mandatory report from the Autonomous Communities, and then you will see what it is. But if you want to go further, the way - I insist - is an integral plan that can address this and not a law, because, if it were a law, do you know what would happen? That for any subsequent change we would have to have a parliamentary debate again.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u46	Mrs. Gorospe, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u47	Yes, thank you. I think you have brought a very interesting subject, but the proposal for a law is not the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u49	Thank you, President. The processing of the bill that brings us to Congress today will count on the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. It is not what we would have brought, but in his spirit and in many of the essentials he deals with is right. We do not know whether a law or amendment of the existing legislative apparatus would be the most appropriate way. There are some terms that we do not understand well, but there is a good intention and we believe that things can be resolved during the period of amendments. That is true, Mr Echenique, you have asked for seriousness and not to be frivolous about this issue. You're a scientist, so get down on the scientific evidence. He has been relating capitalism, neoliberalism and vulture funds to this issue. Let's see if it's going to turn out to be therapeutic to storm the Winter Palace. [[Laughter]] Mr. Echenique, let's be serious about this. However, the treatment we give to mental health is vital. Although it is surprising, in 2021 we addressed a topic with which not everyone feels comfortable and that is one of the problems to be overcome. The taboo, stigma and prejudice are three very different things but they operate in teams to obviate a problem of the very first level. The first obstacle to be overcome is the resistance to assume reality in this matter. In Spain, there is a serious mental health problem that affects hundreds of thousands of people and seeks to cover cultural and traditional issues. It is not a question of reproaching the centuries in which mental illness was feared by punishment and considered a moral depravity or simply a family shame. It is about overcoming and eradicating that perception, which is more frequent today than it seems. Two hundred years ago we didn't know what we know today about the brain, behavior, hormones, neurotransmitters or how it affects our mental state. Therefore, recognizing for everyone the problem is fundamental. Many suffer from a mental health problem and do not know or prefer to hide it. There are people who find themselves in trouble, who do not sleep, who have anxiety about the clouds, who cry without an apparent sense, who live in a state of alarm and concern that they believe to be irrational, who suffer every minute of their lives and who believe that it is normal and that it has no remedy. These people deserve the help and attention of the State and, like those who suffer from a cardiovascular or digestive problem or those who have a depression or compulsive obsessive disorder, they must be cared for by the public institutions of the State. It cannot be left in the hands of each one's economic capacity. There are parents who have seen changes in their children's behavior during confinement. Here the data is alarming. More than half of the parents, 52.2%, have seen changes in their children's way of being; I repeat, in the way of being, because behavior is in another question in the survey. In more than half of the children their parents have noticed changes. 72.2% of parents have experienced mood swings in their children and 30.4% sleep disorders. Paediatric psychiatric emergencies have multiplied by two. Do you realize the dimension of the problem? Are we going to leave these families to their fate? We should talk about mental health. In fact, more work must be done on mental illness statistics. For example, how is the magnitude of a mental illness measured - for example, compulsive obsessive disorder - or how many people die by suicide if there is no public body measuring this? No data is taken from this matter! Why? And how do specialists, doctors and epidemiologists work if they don't have data on how and in which areas one disease is more common than another? How can mental health specialists perform their work if they don't know the dimension of a problem and the environments in which it occurs? How can they measure environmental and socio-economic factors or the causal relationships that mental illness can have with certain events if mental health is not investigated and looked at? How can scientists work without data? We have to deal with this. Already the CIS - a CIS based on this matter - pointed out the great concern of the Spanish on this issue. The situation before the pandemic was not good, but with the COVID we know it has worsened. The groups affected are vast: they go from the older ones, who saw their friends die in the homes of the elderly and feared for the COVID, even the younger ones, as I have just told you. I end with the importance of referring to suicide. It is vital that there be a title in a law like this for this matter, and they are right in that regard. If we do not take disease into account, suicide is the leading cause of death in Spain; and in young people aged 15 to 19, even if we take disease into account, it is the leading cause of death in Spain. You don't have to cover it, you have to count it! They're not numbers, they're mothers, they're parents, they're brothers, they're children, they're friends. The one who commits suicide - and this will be heard to my satisfaction - does not want to stop living, what he wants is to stop suffering. Whoever commits suicide lives in permanent personal hell and needs assistance or a number of three figures, for example, as we said the other day. And they're going to excuse me, but I want to end today by condemning the depravity of a VOX councilman from Madrid City Hall. Her name is Fernando Martínez Vidal and she has used a photo of Begoña Villacís in which she supports her baby. It is a type that uses the image of a mother with her baby in her arms to attack Citizens' position on abortion. Whoever does this doesn't care about mothers, doesn't care about babies, doesn't care about abortion; he cares about their hatred. This type - and with this I finish, President - and I am told by those who have the misfortune to share party with him, is the 1st of politics. [[hiz]] It makes him great to be a councilman, it makes him great to be a Spaniard and it makes him great to be a man. Thank you very much. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Then we say. This is twice already.-Applause.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u50	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Then we say, but nothing happens here.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u51	Thank you, Madam President. We share with the proponents the concern about the mental health situation in the Spanish State, which is raised by the worrying increase in cases and the insufficient - if not inadequate - care by the health systems. We also agree on the need to put in place an appropriate approach to addressing mental health problems that starts from the fact that mental health is conditioned by social, economic and respect for individual and collective rights and, therefore, that it must be faced with comprehensive public policies and a multidisciplinary approach, and not only through pharmacological treatments. The same is true of the need for the public authorities to take the necessary steps to move forward in the prevention, promotion and care of mental health, especially to address the consequences of the pandemic in this area and, in particular, among the youngest. We are concerned, however, that once again a laudable goal means another twist - apparently unstoppable - in this process of permanent centralization and invasion of competences. And we do not say this - it is clear in our case - because we believe that the Galician Government is doing well in this area; no, quite the opposite. The president of the Xunta announced in 2020, after eleven years of government, a post-COVID-19 mental health plan with an investment of 83 million euros in four years, but the reality is that the amount provided in 2021 barely exceeds one million euros. I think it is an example of how the People's Party addresses this problem. In short, there is a lack of political will to resolve it, but also of means. The proposed law - it has finished - marks obligations to the public administrations. The question, however, is: will the State provide them with sufficient financial and all kinds of resources to deal with them? We understand that, in any case, any action must be based on respect for the competences of public administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u53	Thank you, President. It has been six months since we proposed in this House that we urgently need to act on mental health. At that time they promised to update the National Mental Health Strategy, but the only thing we continue to hear today is good words; all this despite the fact that the prevalence of conflicts and mental health problems reaches more than 34% of the population. 1 Word withdrawn by Mr.Díaz Gómez. See page 53. of all sectors, including the child population, and with special virulence in the most vulnerable sectors for social or economic reasons. To understand the magnitude of the problem, let's remember one fact: ten suicides a day in our country. Since we were talking about this in March, 1800 people could have taken their lives, and this is the first unnatural cause of death among young people. It is clear, therefore, that mental health and suicide prevention are fundamentally failing in our country. It's not a receipt that anyone who can afford it can have good psychological attention. It's not a receipt that we're on the line of psychologists per inhabitant. [[The Lord]] We are going to vote in favour of this proposal, but we are in an emergency and, once again, we are late for a very urgent problem. This should already be in the State's Official Gazette or at least be brought as an agreement of the Council of Ministers. However, if it is approved, we are going to work on this proposal and we hope that the coalition government will mark it as one of the most important priorities, because it is.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u55	Thank you, President. Mental health problems have historically been stigmatized and are conditioned by various social and economic factors. It is our duty to develop inclusive and educational policies so that we can allow teaching in this field. We must focus on demystifying and normalizing mental disorders. Currently, many studies indicate that the coronavirus pandemic has increased mental health problems among the population. This recovery has revealed the lack of resources for psychological care in our health care system. Mr Echenique mentioned this in his explanatory statement: the average in the European Union is 18 professionals per 100,000 inhabitants and, in the case of Spain, there are approximately 6 psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants. As reported by the Collège Oficial de Psicòlegs de Catalunya, there is a disproportion between public and private psychological care and an imbalance between pharmacological and psychotherapeutic approaches. Moreover, public attention cannot respond to all existing demands. For example, in Catalonia, the average number of visits by a person to public mental health services is six visits per year, i.e. one visit every two months. With this frequency effective therapeutic care cannot be guaranteed. We are concerned about this situation and believe that in all institutions we should make self-criticism about it, because so far we have not been sufficiently involved to break the stigma of the mental health environment and to reinforce the benefits offered in public health in this field. A global pandemic, such as the COVID-19, has had to arrive, impacting the mental health of many people, in order to put the need to rethink how we take care of and respond to the emotional well-being of the population in the focus of public debate. There are aspects of the text presented by the United Nations We can see with some concern. On the one hand, we believe that there is a clear competitive invasion, mainly in the definition of professional ratios. Mr Echenique, this is not the first time that United We can present to us a legislative text that invades the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya and of the autonomous communities, as was the case with the proposed law on fire services. On the other hand, there is no reference to the additional funding that autonomous communities need to be able to cope with the increase in professionals that would entail the implementation of this legislative initiative. For all that, today we are going to abstain and announced that our amendments will be geared towards these two aspects: shielding the competitive framework and improving the financing of autonomous health systems. Finally, I do not want to conclude my speech without thanking all those associations that work in the field of mental health and that reach all those areas that the administrations cannot reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u56	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u57	Thank you very much, President. It is clear that the health crisis of COVID has aggravated the fragility of an already weakened public health system and that it suffers from a strict thinning with policies of cutting and privatization of social benefits, planted even at that time - they recall - as a formula to manage the previous crisis of 2008. Today we are suffering from those policies at the time and we have this very much in mind. One day we should even reflect in depth on whether these policies of contraction of public services were effective in overcoming the crisis or, rather, an opportunity to dismantle and privatize the welfare state. That is another issue, but I wanted to make a reference in that regard. What is clear is that, today, everyone agrees that in order to cope with a pandemic like the one we are suffering from, it is necessary to strengthen health systems and, specifically, the feet of primary, socio-health care and mental health, the three basic pillars of any public health system that boasts of being leading. The most serious problem affecting the current approach to mental health care has to do primarily with the principles of universal and equitable access for the world and governance. There is a great space where public health has little management capacity, private health being the one who carries the singing voice in that sense, and that ends up affecting the degree of accessibility to mental health devices, as not everyone has the same access opportunities. In the end, what is at stake is that any person affected by a mental health disorder can travel through the public health system with dignity, agility and quality, and that his or her situation is responded to without being stigmatized for any reason, whether economic, political or any other form of stigmatization. This can only be guaranteed, not deceived, through the public, by the management of the public. We share the principles contained in this proposal. In fact, the most relevant aspects that we believe should be preserved and that they should include, on the one hand, the structural foundations of social and labour integration - fundamental -; to focus on awareness campaigns to avoid social stigmatization - is an aspect in which in this sense it is progressing -; the transversality of actions through a multidisciplinary team - also fundamental -; the support of family members and caregivers, since above all it is a social disease and family environment; the coordination of all levels of care - primary care, the mental health reference professional, hospital centre of acute care or centres of chronic care and home care, which implies a very large care complexity - and assistance in the treatment, for example, of disability and/or dependence, with agile agendas or legal support to address aspects related to behavioral disorders. They are elements that they collect and that we believe are fundamental, although we also miss other elements. For us, in Catalonia, it is very important to shield the model of community care, a model that guarantees comprehensive and close care, personalized, and that means a reduction of stays in hospitals in favor of personalized and home care. We believe that this is one of the fundamental aspects: insisting on mental health integrated into community care. On the other hand, the importance of health in school. Children between the ages of four and twelve are not integrated into the mental health network, and we are talking about disorders such as care deficit, bullying and other minimal disabilities. Nor do the problems of development in childhood and the serious consequences that then, in adolescent or adult ages, reproduce. Or, for example, there is no emphasis, and it is also a fundamental issue, on the prevention and promotion of mental health from the municipalities themselves, in coordination with the reference health services. Or the adequacy of protocols in correctional facilities or under-custodial facilities, which is equally essential. Or also a model of attention to chronicity or social vulnerability. See that it is a broad, vast project of enormous complexity. And that is simply by giving some examples, there are many more that we see and with which it can really be expanded. Above all, for us there are two very important elements and two red lines in this respect: the competition framework and, of course, funding. Please note that there are autonomous communities that already have comprehensive mental health strategies or plans and are currently reforming them. Therefore, bear in mind that these autonomous communities are working on this line. Precisely, the fifth final provision - of progressive application of the law - summarizes at its last point the finalist intention of this project, and is, perhaps, where we see a little risk of supporting a law in that style, without taking full account of skills and funding. This is the last point of the creation of the state mental health centre, which is the result of the restructuring of existing organs and units and of specific resources that would fall within the budgets. There is a real will to create a new mental health agency at the state level but, on the other hand, they say that health benefits are the financial responsibility of the autonomous communities and then rely on the framework for regulating the system of financing the autonomous communities of the common system and cities with autonomy status. You already know how long that framework has not been reformed. What do you mean? That, on the one hand, we are talking about creating a new centre and, on the other, funding is entrusted to this framework, when it is a framework that we all know ten years ago or more that is blocked. On the other hand, you are talking about minimum ratios of professionals that will be progressively achieved within four years. I think it is very important here to talk to the Autonomous Communities when they have full power and competence to really define what the actual implementation of these agreements is. I am afraid that without these two premises - the competition framework and funding - we run the risk of turning that proposal into another wet paper, as has happened with other initiatives, which are limited to being pure declarations of intent but which then clash with the reality of day-to-day management. Nevertheless, we will support the consideration, hoping to advance the agreement in its debate. And one last piece of advice, you rule with the PSOE and every Tuesday you have a Council of Ministers. Before bringing such proposals to Congress, it would be convenient for them to wash their clothes at home. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u58	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u59	With venial, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposer presents us with a proposal for a general mental health law. The need for reinforcement in mental health has been the subject of the interest of our parliamentary group, which registered two non-law proposals fifteen nine months ago. The first to reinforce in its general terms and the second in our healthcare professionals. By the way, I think we are the only group that has put forward initiatives in this regard. Let's get to the bottom of the proposal. The Exhibition has parts that we want to highlight with excitement. First, the recognition that unconstitutional confinement increased mental health problems, starting with suicide. Secondly, the proposer acknowledges something that VOX has always warned, and I quote in text: 'The increase in the sociological level of single parent or single parent structures poses challenges to mental health, as well as violence against women, child abuse and towards our majors. All these factors have negative consequences on people's mental health.' Everyone, Mr. Echenique, everyone. [[Applauds]] Despite these few flashes of common sense, this is a bill that introduces a pernicious view of mental health problems. And it is that this proposition of law starts, although it does not reveal it openly, from a conception of health problems that sinks its feet in the mud of antipsychiatry. Thus, the biological and psychological bases of mental health problems are put behind some alleged historical causes, ignoring, ladies and gentlemen, the neurochemical causes of endogenous depression, bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. The role of psychiatrists is relegated, which has nothing strange since page 2 criticizes self-requirement and individual accountability. Psychiatry does not seem to exist, as none of the most serious pathologies, including that suffered by the poor and notorious Mrs. De Mingo, are mentioned by name. It only mentions depression and almost past; no eating disorders, no hyperactivity, no phobias. Moreover, mental health problems are subreptitiously subsumed in the concept of functional diversity, which is also defined in a novel way as simply a different way of doing things. No, sir, delusions are not different ways of doing tasks, nor obsessive compulsive disorders and their rituals, nor food disorders, nor phobias. They're pathologies, see if they find out! The obsession the left has with fuelling the war of men against women makes them include a chapter IV dedicated to the 'rights of women with mental health problems'. This chapter again enshrines discrimination against men infringing our legislation, forgetting that depression is three times greater in men, as well as suicide. And since there is no party without Aunt Juana, of course, the proposer shows his preference for the theme of homosexuality and transsexuality while forgetting, of course, the mental disorders caused by sexual abuse of minors, lest you go to bother Mrs Armengol. [[Applauds]] Throughout the text, Mr Echenique, sums up a negative position towards pharmacological treatment and only neuroleptics are mentioned, forgetting all those medicines that are so useful against depression, against schizophrenia and with hyperactivity and attention disorder; the preventive use of antipsychotic drugs is sometimes prohibited. In short, the whole text exudes a typical conception of antipsychiatry of the seventies of the last century, Stalinist in its anarchist conception in its methods; but, yes, proposing to create new chiringuitos as the state center of mental health and, of course, the defender of the person with mental disorder where they will be able to place their psychologists and psychiatrists addicted to the regime. I'm closing up. This government, which was involved and led by the power itself, let us enter the virus and infected us, lied to us about its gravity, lied to us about the masks - which are still unfunded - and imprisoned us unconstitutionally at the same time as they gag the people and this Parliament. We have long been the champions of mortality, we are from infection to health care and we have been the most punished Europeans in health and in the economy. No one should be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spaniards are suffering a collective traumatic stress after having been appalled by a fear that is beautiful with terror. [[Applauds]] Here's the reason for the proposer. This collective mental trauma has a historical root: the day his government was formed. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And it has an economic root: the ruin that always engenders communism. And after we go crazy, the partner of the government can only think of an absurd, radically scientific law, which cuts across therapeutic nihilism and which will leave us, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not amend it successfully, definitely upset. I'm done. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u60	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u61	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. 'The mental health of the Spanish population has fallen into bites during the pandemic and below there is no net.' These are the words of the president of the Spanish Confederation of Mental Health last March. Since March 2020, 6.4% of the population has had to go to a professional for having some sort of symptom of anxiety or depression; figures that, without a doubt, represent the tip of the iceberg of the big big big-ass problem and that some have already called it the other silent pandemic. Today, mental health services do not have the human, financial or logistical resources necessary to meet this great challenge, as professionals have been warning for the past year and a half of pandemics; not to mention what is experienced in primary care, in health centres, totally overwhelmed when they are fundamental in the early detection of mental health problems. But look, the impact of the pandemic has been brutal, without a doubt, on the population, citizens and mental health; especially, on citizens who needed specific treatment or care and could not receive it, and also on other groups who have suffered a great deal during the pandemic: the health care workers, the families of those killed by COVID who have not been able to say goodbye to them, so many people suffering from anxiety and fear for being afraid of the virus infection and, of course, also those others who have lost their jobs, who are in a very vulnerable economic situation and who are, of course, suffering and generating mental health problems. But where he's ruined mental health is in the younger ones. Paediatric emergencies have grown by 50% due to psychiatric problems. Young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-nine are the population that reflects the worst data on pandemic fatigue. Even suicidal thoughts have grown in them that have increased between 8 and 10 %. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask, is there a need for a mental health law? Is that really the solution? United We can, your group, already presented in 2019 a text here in the Congress that was not discussed and the Spanish Association of Neuropsychiatry Already recommended avoiding the generation of specific laws, because the best mental health law is the Budgets Act, which is also the one that they now have at their disposal sitting on the Council of Ministers. Mental health needs real budgetary support and now they have an opportunity that is also the European funds. The Ombudsman said this last week here in the parliamentary seat: more human resources, more material resources for mental health are needed, structural reforms are needed, sufficient resources are provided, more professional and equity in the implementation of measures in all the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the General Health Act, the Patient Autonomy Act, the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System. These are laws that, without any doubt, mark the path of how to organize services and how to guarantee fundamental rights. The text they present is a poor text and, in addition, a text completely removed from science and scientific evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of legislation but of funding. If the law were the solution, why not a cancer law or a primary care law, with the most serious problem we have right now? Patients, scientific societies, health, social and educational professionals have been calling for a comprehensive approach, based on early, multidisciplinary and focused on prevention, to reduce social stigma from awareness, from information and from training to professionals. What is urgently needed is the updating of the National Health Strategy of the National Health System. After more than three years in the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also now of the United Nations, we can, with four ministers, with more than three years in the government, what do you do? Why don't we have a new National Mental Health Strategy? In the Commission for Reconstruction that we had here in Congress a year and a half ago, we approved, unanimously by all parliamentary groups, to promote the updating of the National Strategy, as well as to adopt a Strategic Plan for the Prevention of Suicide. What are you doing? Why don't they start it from the government? Why do they have all the Commission's reconstruction agreements kept in a drawer? Ladies and gentlemen of the United States, we can be serious. Serious is what is needed of the work and responsibility they have, which they sit on the Council of Ministers. Other speakers have said so here. Why do you bring this bill, if you have the instruments of being in government? In the meantime, the Government announced the updating of the National Mental Health Strategy. Let us agree, that this is the health of the citizens, which is the most important and precious thing that we all have. Look, on this matter, once again, you're late. We're the worst country to handle the pandemic. They were late in protecting the health care workers and in recognizing the deceased officials by COVID, they have not yet recognized them, and they are also late in this of mental health and in a national mental health plan that is demanding the entire Spanish society, also this parliamentary group. But, look, even so, we, the People's Parliamentary Group, are not going to be an obstacle or a hindrance in the processing of this bill, because, although we do not agree on the form, we agree on the substance, that it is working to improve the quality of life of people with mental health problems and their families and to support health professionals; that is what the People's Parliamentary Group is going to work on and will always be, but, of course, vigilant to ensure that they fulfil their commitments and that mental health does not leave them behind. Get to work, who have a very important responsibility and do and act for real. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u62	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u63	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The pandemic has focused on mental health, but mental health has been and has always been a challenge for societies. People with mental health problems have lived and live today marked by stigma. At any time we go back, they have been hidden, set aside, persecuted, criminalized and deprived of their rights, even of the most elementary ones; even today, we can see political systems in which the death penalty is applied to people without addressing their mental health problems. Exclusion, and in the case of women, double excursion: manipulated, used, abused as a woman and insane. It has been called crazy, in a pejorative sense, the women who committed themselves, we strive to demand our rights: to be autonomous or to open ourselves up to facets that society considers of the male world; crazy the suffragistas, for which we will have a memory this week on the occasion of the ninety anniversary of the women's vote in Spain. [[Applauds]] The debate on mental health that the pandemic opens for us must be an opportunity to recognize and repair injustices, to recognize mental health as a state of individual and collective well-being with as much or more importance than physical health and to agree to devote the resources it needs. The Government of Spain is committed to this. From this rostrum President Pedro Sánchez has stated that mental health is a priority of the Government, with the commitment not to leave anyone behind. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a slogan of campaigning, it is a statement consistent with our socialist values. The civil and social rights recognized by law in this country, in our society, bear our stamp, from the right to health to the right to euthanasia. In mental health our work has been constant to achieve a more just, equal and free society; a background career that began with the psychiatric reform of 1985 and the closure of the asylums and continued with the General Health Act of 1986, which equates rights and integrates mental health care into the National Health System and its subsequent normative development to include it in the common quartier of public services. It has been recalled this afternoon by some of your ladies and gentlemen that the management and delivery of health services is the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities, and so it is. To establish common lines, ensure quality of access and quality of service, the Government of President Rodríguez Zapatero promoted in 2004 the first Mental Health Strategy, a document resulting from the joint work of professionals and society, which was approved in 2006 with the consensus of all the autonomous communities within the interterritorial council. It was updated in 2009, with a four-year horizon. As you can see, our work has been firm and sustained in time. But in mental health much remains to be done and it is necessary to remember, remember to repair, the passage of the People's Party by the Government of Spain. In 2015, two years after the end of the 2013 strategy, the PP failed to reach consensus to update it and simply gave up,and resigned from its responsibility to provide strategic lines to the National Health System that could guide communities to address health from equity and equality. Mental health was left in limbo by action of the People's Party. The Autonomous Communities saved it with plans of action, which, despite their efforts, have given rise to an unequal map of care in the territory, inequity and lack of resources, the necessary resources. Why? Because, moreover, the government of the People's Party thinned the National Health System to place Spain at two points below the European average in health spending and investment. That's how we got here. And our government hasn't lost a second. In 2018 he regained the universality of health. It began to eliminate the pharmaceutical coffers for the most vulnerable groups, including those affected by their mental health; the occupation of this group is only 16%. It has promoted the Law on Recognition of the Legal Capacity of Persons with Disabilities, including those with mental health problems. In addition, it has made available €73 billion in health policies in the general budgets of 2021. Those budgets that you, Mr de VOX and Mr de Groupe Popular, did not vote for and now demand resources. They had a chance to support them. The update of the mental health strategy, as the minister reported this week, will soon be finalized, and work must continue. In our country, one in ten people over 15 years of age is diagnosed with some mental health problem; suicide is the leading cause of unnatural death and youth indicators say that they are concerned and seriously affected by mental health. Being aware of the complexity of the proposal brought to us today by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, we will take this opportunity, this window, to make a broad debate on mental health in the Congress of Deputies, because our commitment remains alive to eradicate stigma, to provide resources for the National Health System in terms of mental health, to make effective the rights of people who have these problems, to support patient associations, their families, caregivers and professionals who in times of pandemic have given more than the size for all the cuts suffered in previous times, as I have just explained. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u65	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group, which urges the Government to implement the reciprocity of all autonomous State televisions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A previous question, yesterday I turned on television in my village and I counted the channels, more than fifty: state, the autonomic, the districts, the locals. In three channels they write letters to take money from people; two channels are contacts; several channels are sports; only five of which I can see were public, the four of Radio Television and the channel À Punt, mine; one is even financed with public funds, that of the Episcopal Conference, has a marked character of right and anti-government, and only two speak to me entirely in my language. In fact, my grandson sees practically all the cartoons in Spanish, he hardly has a chance to see cartoons in his language. That said, let me tell you an aphorism of a Valencian intellectual, Joan Fuster: In the background of tot amorament there is a mistake: without any motiu, they thought that the person we thought was another person. At the bottom of any falling in love there is a mistake: for no reason, we had thought that the person we wanted was someone else. This is what happens to those who always have the word Spain in their mouth; to those who say Spain first; to those who wear wrists or'mascarillas with the Spanish flag as if they were attacking you; to those who think that the Spanish should be a single language; to those who annoy them if they hear a person say bona nit, gabón or boas noches, but do not bother them if that same is said in English or German. Those people who mistakenly think that there is only their idea of a country. They are the ones who say they want their country, but they do not want the real country, they want their own idea of a country; a narrow, boring country, where some do not know, because they would want us to be uniform, unilingual and firm. And what I'm going to do, the country of some isn't mine or the country of millions of people. The real country is another. We live in a plural, plurinational and plurilingual state, although they are weighed by some, even if they do not like it. This is precisely what this GNP is about, with respect for each and every one of the forty-seven million citizens we live in this country. What we are trying to do is very simple: that all citizens can see autonomous public television, that the government takes the necessary measures to make this possible. I live in an autonomous community with five neighbouring communities - Murcia, Castile-La Mancha, Aragon, Catalonia and, by the sea, the Balearic Islands - but I want to have the opportunity to watch Andalusian, Canary, Galician or Basque televisions. I will give you a very clear example that not only happens in my country, in the Valencian Country, in my autonomous community, Valencian Community, in the kingdom of Valencia - each one who chooses from the deck the name he wants, for me it is clear -. In my country, in the Valencian Country, Valencian Community, there are 850,000 people coming from other parts of Spain, mainly from Andalusia, Castile-La Mancha and Aragón, who would like to see Canal Sur, Castile-La Mancha TV or Aragón TV. And on the contrary, there are 180,000 Valencians scattered throughout the geography of the peninsula and, obviously, sometimes they would like to see the mascletà or the creamà on their own television. One and the other, if you want to watch your TV by pressing the remote control button, either you have to pay for a platform, or you have to have an Internet connection. We all know that there are still many people in the state who are not easily connected to the Internet. So I think it's logical that people can see the proximity information of the community where he was born. But not only that, I think this proposal, it is GNP, has other useful considerations. Seeing all the autonomous televisions would allow us to know the reality of other territories, to know each other better, the neighbours, but also the islanders. For example, right now canary television is doing a magnificent job in tracking the volcano eruption, and I'd like to see it. My grandson could watch cartoons in his language, on TV3 or on the IB3 of Balearics. Another positive aspect of being able to see them is that we can know other languages and know it is to start wanting. This is an outstanding subject of this State with the other languages. Channel 9 broadcasted Dragon Ball, Drac Ball. Many learned Valencian following that series, but not only in Valencian territory, but people from Murcia or Albacete. Another possibility is to be able to expand the leisure options, to see Or das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das das da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da In short, this is a reasonable, just and recommendable proposal, endorsed by all laws and international treaties.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u67	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u68	I ended up saying that this proposal promotes knowledge and respect, which, as we have seen, would be much needed in this rostrum. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Rosique i Saltor spoke by the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u70	Good afternoon, comrade Baldoví. The truth is that we were surprised by his non-law proposition. When we read the title we thought we would agree to one hundred percent, because normally when we discussed it in different debates we agreed, but when we read the text the truth is that it surprised us. We hoped that what I would ask would be that reciprocity of the audiovisual media of the same linguistic domain, because the associations that have been asking for it for years, such as the Cultural Society, Cultural Work Balear, Cultural Action of the Valencià Country, Valencian School or Platform for Language, what they do is to ask for this reciprocity of the audiovisual media in Catalan, precisely because one of the challenges we have to achieve the survival of Catalan is its use in the private sphere. We have several examples of this: Drac Ball is a great example to promote the use of Catalan among children. We therefore find it difficult to see the political logic of the non-legislative proposal they pose, because in the end that reminds us of this state of autonomy, this coffee for all, and we believe that it focuses little on the great challenge we have, that it is to get Catalan to persist and that it can continue to be used as a common language. We are also shocked by this technical logic found in this non-law proposition, because precisely if we see the multiples at the state level we realize that there is no room for this non-law proposition to become a reality. Thinking of possible methods for the reciprocity of the audiovisual media in Catalan we realize that they exist and that, moreover, they could already be applied, today or tomorrow. In the case of the Valencian Country, for example, there are and have them nearby. We have À Punto with a very wide, sufficient or even excessive bandwidth, it is more than double the bandwidth that has La Sixth or that has La 1 or that has Four. Therefore, if this bandwidth is reduced, we could continue to maintain the quality of À Punt and include TV3 and IB3 to enhance precisely this reciprocity. In the case of the Balearic Islands and Pitiüses, we have multiple islands that are being underused and can therefore be used. And in the case of Catalonia, it's a little more complex. We need the multiplex for private television to be used as well, but we are working on it and we are committed to making it a reality. After all, the essential thing is cooperation between governments in the audiovisual sector and it is therefore of particular importance that the meeting held by the very Honourable President Pere Aragonès and President Ximo Puig, at which they agreed to coordinate in the audiovisual sector in order to promote coordination also with regard to reciprocity. We also need to boost the joint digital platform we have, Bon dia TV, because in the end this is our new challenge, to be able to reach these digital platforms. Investment in this sector must be increased and notable programming promoted. We have several good examples in this regard, such as Merlin or Polseres vermelles, then translated into Spanish and which have proved to be examples of clear investment success. It is also important that we coordinate to prevent the State Audiovisual Law from obstructing the Catalan language in the audiovisual sector. In other words, the reciprocity of audiovisual media in Catalan can be a reality if there is political will; it is not a technical issue. What you propose in this non-legislative proposal can already be promoted on digital platforms, but the urgency is to make the use of Catalan in the private sphere a growing reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u72	Thank you, President. Good evening. Today we talk about the reciprocity of autonomous television throughout the State. I am going to refer to a specific experience. In the Valencià Country we were able to receive for twenty-five years - until 2011 - the broadcasts of Catalan public television and in some of these years in Catalonia also watched Valencian television. It was not a decision of the public administrations; it was an achievement of the popular movement, which gave social and economic support to Cultural Action of the Valencia Country for the installation of repeaters that made possible this reciprocity in the Catalan linguistic field. Evidently, this was unacceptable to the right, which in our land has always fostered linguistic war with partisan ends, always with fallacy, contrary to the academy, of the differentiation between the Catalan language and the valencià, which is our way of speaking Catalan. With this the PP has always undermined the appreciation, knowledge and use of the Valencian in our land. In 2011, the People's Party, following persistent judicial and economic persecution, managed to stop receiving broadcasts from Catalan radio and television in our regions. The freedom that so much the right proclaims can only be exercised - it seems - if it coincides with what interests them. At the same time, following the usual modus operandi of the People's Party, the Catalan audiovisual corporation, Canal Nou, had become a means of propaganda, sinking the base of plugging, squandering, sectarianism and discrediting. In 2013, he closed Valencian television and we were left without any audiovisual media in valencià. That's terrible for a language that's small and in danger. We know that the freedom of the People's Party is to use or close the media according to its interests. For twenty-five years, in which we enjoy in our territory the reciprocity of audiovisual media, a window was opened to the diversity of accents, opinions, knowledge of neighboring realities, and also to a wider audiovisual production, cultural exchange, tourism, commercial. The reciprocity of audiovisual media is a requirement of the European Charter for Minority Languages, but it also had positive economic and business consequences. For this reason, Unidad Podemos is working to recover this right to receive audiovisual broadcasts in our linguistic field. In fact, we presented - our group - a few months ago, in this very House, a GNP in this respect. We therefore consider this initiative relevant, which calls for this reciprocity to be made possible before the audiovisual media of the different autonomys. Cultural and linguistic uniformity does not exist, nor is it desirable, contrary to the right. This leads to the imposition and limitation of social and individual rights, that search for uniformity. A democratic society bases its cohesion on voluntary and mutual recognition, and there the audiovisual media play a great role because they allow the most local realities to be disseminated throughout the territory. Spain is a multicultural and multilingual state, and that reality must also be expressed in the audiovisual space we share. Preventing such reciprocity with technical or economic arguments are excuses for those who do not recognize diversity. Since 2018, Valencians and Valencians have recovered public media in Valencia. We believe that it would be rich for the whole State to have access to our broadcasts and to know our language, our culture, what we share, what differentiates us. And we consider it a wealth that could be freely accessed throughout the State, as we are proposing, to the emissions of any other autonomy. This has much to do with the model of Spain that we can defend: a country of countries, with cohesion in diversity, with democracy and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u74	Thank you, President. Mr Baldoví, if in any way I agree with your proposal, it is certainly in the proximity of public television in the different territories. Obviously, a clear example, to which we reiterate our congratulations, is what Radio Televisión Canaria has done with the volcano crisis on the island of La Palma. In his explanatory statement, he tells us that in Spain, where almost all the autonomous communities have public radio and television corporations, the reciprocity of all autonomous public television would be of great use to improve interterritorial cohesion and also to promote and protect the cultural and linguistic pluralism of the State. And who could not agree with this statement? It also reminds us that in Law 7/2020 of 31 March, General of the Audiovisual Communication, which understood the rules in force so far, fully enshrines in Chapter 1 of Title II the guarantee of the rights of citizens to receive audiovisual communication in conditions of cultural and linguistic pluralism, which implies the protection of European and Spanish audiovisual works in their different languages. And I ask myself again: who cannot agree with this statement? Well, there are some in this House who, of course, are not. My group, which believes that the strengthening of the Spanish project is based on the promotion of the co-official languages, the sensitivity to their different feelings of belonging, the promotion of inter-territorial dialogue or loyal cooperation between administrations, cannot in any case disagree with this. Article 40.4 of Act No. 7/2010 of 31 March 2010 provides that the issue of a public audiovisual communication service by terrestrial radio waves of a community or autonomous city with another boundary or linguistic and cultural affinities may be effected provided that they agree by agreement and there is reciprocity. In short, these forecasts allow for reciprocal broadcasts of the public television services of the Autonomous Communities, provided that the corresponding agreements are established and that they use a spectrum granted for this purpose, as could be one of the autonomous channels awarded to the Autonomous Communities themselves. Autonomous communities can allocate some of the autonomous channels operated in direct management to carry out public channel emissions from other communities. Thus, they can already decide, without mediating action by the State, which of their autonomous channels will be exploited in direct management and, once the relevant convention has been approved, intended for the issue of public channels from other autonomous communities with linguistic and cultural affinities. However, it should be noted, Mr Baldoví, that no autonomous community has used this possibility to date. I insist, the current legal framework allows the broadcasting of the public service of the audiovisual community by terrestrial radio waves of a community or autonomous city with another boundary. However, this guarantee of reciprocity also requires that radio spectrum planning be respected and technical interference to other providers avoided. It should be noted that due to recent spectrum reductions available for audiovisual services through processes called digital dividend release, motivated by Community legislation to provide more radio spectrum to electronic communications services, there is currently no audiovisual spectrum available to the service already provided. A Senator of Compromís recently stated, last August, that we do not have reciprocity of autonomous televisions because the PSOE does not want to. You know that last March the Socialist Group supported with its party the reciprocity of Valencian television broadcasts with Catalan and Balearic. I mean, he won't find us here, in disagreement. Moreover, it is not a question of the government not wanting, on the contrary, this government's commitment to digitisation is notorious and is now reinforced by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, where 29% of the funds will go to investments in digitisation. The government's bet is firm, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u75	You must finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u76	I'm done, President. Thus, the reform of the General Audiovisual Communication Law, which will soon be brought to this House, will continue this possibility of cooperation and reciprocity in broadcasts between autonomous televisions, especially for those bordering those with linguistic affinities. That is why we ask you to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u77	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u78	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, as you well know, that photographs cannot be taken with mobile phones in the Chamber. I ask you to respond to that recommendation, which has become customary. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Government is urged to have linguistic reciprocity in the programming of all public televisions, so that - they proclaim their drivers - it would be very useful to improve territorial cohesion and also to promote and protect the cultural and linguistic pluralism of the State. I will vote against this initiative, because what is in danger today, as a consequence of the legislation promoted by the coalition government and supported by its independence partners, is the use of the Spanish language, common to all Spaniards, and at greater risk, if it is possible, after the approval of the Lomlou, also known as the Celaá law, which eliminates the Spanish as a vehicle and as an official language of the State, and which grants the power of the autonomous governments to choose what they want as a vehicle in the classrooms of their respective community. Ladies and gentlemen, spreading war television programmes, as is claimed in this proposal, will mean widening the deep gap that has already occurred in some territories of Spain, where a very serious social fracture has been opened that penalises, when it does not persecute, those who use Spanish, or label their business in Spanish, or speak in schools in Spanish, or play in Spanish. Mr Baldoví, it must be that narrow and boring country in which some do not fit, in which those who want to exercise or access a place of doctor cannot do so by using the language of Spain, instead of the native language converted into an insurmountable filter of job selection and, therefore, as a tool of inequality between Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against because, in short, this issue of reciprocity is also well defined in the current General Audiovisual Communication Act. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u82	Thank you, President. We are in favour of this initiative because it allows us the reciprocity between the media in Catalonia, the Islands and the Valencia Country. And I say País Valencià, which is the expression that, precisely, I understand that the Bureau of Congress has censored in a parliamentary initiative of the deputy Rosique. [[Applauds]] For the Bureau of Congress, it is no longer possible to talk about monarchy or amnesty, but now it is not possible to refer to the Valencia Country either. Is the unity of Spain so solid that it can't bear these words, País Valencià? Valencia country. We know the importance of the question of names, as another of these rocking foundations, Joan Fuster, called it. We know that the fascist groups were pursuing during the Transition every demonstration of Catalan Valencianism, until the assassination of Miquel Grau on 16 October 1977. We also know that there were attacks on bookstores such as the Tres i Quatre bookstore, which has the sad record of being the most attacked bookstore in Europe after World War II. We knew all this, all this fighting and resistance story. We knew in this struggle where VOX, PP and Citizens would be located, but what we cannot overlook is that it is a Bureau presided over by the PSOE that censures this expression, País Valencià, in a parliamentary initiative, when even his party carries this expression in the Valencian lands, Socialist Party of the País Valencià. On the subject, he said that Tres i Quatre is the bookstore that has the sad record of being the most attacked after the Second World War at the European level. This was published last week À Punt in a news report, and it is a reality that in Catalonia is surely known very little, because in the background we live on our backs. We share the same language, and yet we live on our backs. Not by chance, because cutting a language space is a way of weakening it, and this has been done consciously and politically to favor, of course, another language space, that of the Spanish, which has hegemonized television, radio, press, platforms and cinema, and yet they go with the discourse that they are persecuted. All this was started by the PP with the closure of TV3 repeaters in the Valencia Country, but now there is no excuse, because all the institutions involved are in the hands of parties theoretically favorable to reciprocity. Therefore, in conclusion, we will support this GNP that places the Spanish Government, but we also send a message to our governments in Barcelona, Valencia and Palma... [[ends your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u84	Pick it up on. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of choice, respect for linguistic diversity and wisdom, above all wisdom, because the initiative that comes to this House today - in this case it is a non-legislative proposal for the reciprocity of autonomous televisions - in our view contains a totally reasonable approach. At present, television programming of remote places in the world can be accessed, in some cases through payment platforms and in a large number of different languages. However, people in the Spanish State who want to see programming in another co-official language of the State elaborated and programmed by autonomous televisions - i.e. public - cannot do so if it is not through payment platforms. This is a great paradox, as the transfer between autonomous communities is limited, while the transfer of television content between States is encouraged. This should not be the case when the Spanish State has assumed and ratified what the European Charter of Minority Languages proposes for the protection, promotion and dissemination of languages such as Catalan, Galician or Basque. This should not be the case in a plurinational and multilingual State. What we are talking about here today is whether it makes sense to limit the freedom to choose what means of communication a citizen can use to inform or entertain herself, whether or not it makes sense to defend the languages and cultures of this State, beyond the Castilian. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting yes to this proposal for a law not on reciprocity of content between the various autonomous televisions. It is true that the GNP does not advance in the development of the initiative, it could also be said that it is excessively generic, but given that the proposal involves enabling a system for citizens to live at the point of the State in which they live, to view the programmes of any autonomous television - especially theirs, of course - and also taking advantage of a public investment that is already made, we have nothing to object to this initiative. Of course, out of pure wisdom, this makes much more sense among communities that share the same language, as has been said here. There are groups in this House who will oppose this GNP for reasons of defence of the Castilian - we have already heard some intervention in this regard -. To all of them I will remind you that the Spanish speak it 490 million people on the planet- are data from the Cervantes Institute - which is the second mother tongue of the planet, after the Mandarin Chinese, and the third on the Internet, that its projection of growth is enormous and that the advance of the Spanish will continue. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, calmness. Consequently, what needs to be preserved is not the Spanish language - it does not miss it at all - but minority languages. This is called respect for linguistic diversity and is also called culture. I am going to link up with another issue that has been opened for discussion these days and which is related to the previous one, hoping that the Government has indeed taken good note of this. The preliminary draft audiovisual law that we have known does not address the linguistic reality of this State and goes against what the Basque audiovisual sector claims, which demands to set mandatory percentages, special protection and specific guarantees to safeguard Basque in the audiovisual sector. This, of course, is also extended to Catalan and Galician. I will end by referring again to those who claim or believe that this presupposes or improves the protection of the Castilian. You have little confidence in what you preach and in the values of Spain that you claim to defend if the mere fact that you can see the broadcasts of other autonomic channels in other languages outside your own territory gives you so much buzz. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Plural Parliamentary Group, in particular Member Joan Baldoví, presents us with this non-legislative proposal on the reciprocity of all autonomous televisions, that is, so that all of them can be seen in all parts of the State through the terrestrial digital system to use. As the proposer has indicated, the reason for this request is the duty of the State authorities to ensure access to the various official languages of the State. The object is laudable and also responds, as indicated in the explanatory part of the proposal, to the contents of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. The protection and dissemination of languages is a cultural duty that we owe to ourselves, and even more as legislators that we are. There are no better or worse languages, there are no bigger or smaller languages, they are all the same, but not all are equal. And linguistic rights are of the people who speak them, who must be not only respected but also promoted. It is therefore the duty of the authorities to generate linguistic policies that serve to remove barriers of inequality and to activate educational, social and cultural systems so that languages that are not equal, or because they are also minority, enjoy the same rights and opportunities as those that, because of their quantitative dimension, do not need promotion or protection. Although sometimes being a mouse head has left for life, then you have seen that being a lion's tail, like, for example, in Europe, you start to see that the little one suffers in his own flesh. A little humility. To those who think that with Spanish or Spanish they are champions of the world that has happened more than once. And there is no need to boast, defend and proclaim Spanish, as has been done here, with attitudes more like those of the Cid, because the Castilian has no problem of subsistence, do not worry. In any case, as a principle and criterion, our group will never oppose openness, the possibility of more people learning more languages, acquiring more culture or having the possibility of having different and enriching audiovisual content, coming in the language that comes and coming from the country that comes. That's always enriching. And we say this because we have lived in our own flesh as autonomous governments of parties represented in this House have done their utmost and impossible to ensure that certain televisions in specific languages, such as the Basque Telebista, cannot be seen - I repeat: they cannot be seen - nor can they reach specific recipients. That is what the Navarro People's Union has done, for example, in Navarra, as much as possible and impossible. I will always say that it is the only government in Europe that has legislated against the culture and language of the country that governs. What a paradox. What a sad truth. That's how it was. Let's hope those dark times never come back again. I am focusing on the proposal made by the Member, as I have little time. The issue, in principle, has no political and ideological drawbacks, i.e. everything for everyone in the interests of cultural and linguistic plurality. Okay. But let us not confuse multiculturalism or diversity and cultural plurality with a kind of diverse Spanishness or different forms of being Spanish, which is not that. What we are clear is that it is not specified - or the proposer does not specify - what is its path, both in the technical and economic aspects, how it should be done, who assumes the technological organization, on what budgets, what role should the autonomous communities play with their own television when it comes to financing or not financing, it will be mandatory. These are both substantive and necessary elements in the pursuit of such a programme. We therefore believe that in-depth consideration should be given to what is the best formula for carrying out what is proposed, identifying what are the drawbacks and resolving them, both from a technological, if any, and from an economic-financial perspective. We are in the digital age and all these programming can be seen perfectly, as has been said, on the Internet. And while not everyone can access the digital issue, although not everyone today has access, I think this is a proposal that in a few years will not make sense because, fortunately, most people will be able to access television and all the contents of the world on the Internet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u87	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u88	It is not our priority, but the proposal made by Mr Baldoví does not seem to us wrong. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u89	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u90	Thank you, President. I must say, Mr Baldoví, that I was preparing an intervention, but that I had to do it again and again because of everything I have been listening to here this afternoon, even you have made me change the meaning of the vote up to twice during your intervention. I saw him at times as a liberal and at times as a nationalist, and he has also given it to many of the spokesmen who have preceded me. You said yesterday you turned on the TV and found only two channels that spoke your language. Did they talk to you in French on TV? Did they talk to you in suajili? In German? They would speak to him in Spanish, right?, which is also his language. I would also like to say one thing to the spokesman for the CUP. I also wanted to present an initiative to bring clothes to Cimmeria, the country of Conan, and I have been pushed back because Cimmeria does not exist, like the Valencia Country. I have heard here that the Valencian language is in danger, and I, who live there, tell you that it really seems that you refer to Esperanto. I was telling you, Mr. Baldoví, that you have made me change the meaning of the vote twice. I found very useful his initiative on the reciprocity of all the autonomous televisions of the State, above all to answer a question, that of whether autonomous televisions serve for something today, besides being used as an identity and propaganda medium. I remind you that in the Valencian Les Corts - it has already been said here also by another spokesman - at the beginning of this year the reciprocity between Valencian television À Punt, balear television and TV3, on the proposal of its parliamentary group, was approved, a reciprocity that at that time was due, as they pointed out, to a shared linguistic space. I have been very naive thinking that you have become liberal and that, as a liberal, one above all you want is equality, the right for all citizens to see all televisions or to access all content and information, reside where they reside. But I see it's not like that. Here you have been told by many of your partners that you have been cut short, that if the linguistic domain of Catalan, if languages in danger of extinction, if the extermination of languages. I really believe you live in a parallel world. As liberals, in Citizens we are in favour of the contents of public television being available to all Spaniards, living where they live, because, after all, they are resources, they are televisions that we pay among all. It would certainly be good news if the Canal Sur could be seen in Catalonia or if Canal Extremadura could be seen in the Basque Country, even if in Madrid we could follow the television of the Canary Islands, to follow, from the first moment and with concern, quality information and live, the second, what is happening with the eruption of the volcano of Cumbre Vieja. You said it would also help us to get to know each other better. Well, of course, I could finally see all of Spain that on Catalan TV, TV3, hate is spread and most Catalans are pointed out that they do not want independence. There, Mr. Baldoví, is where my initial question is answered. What's the use of autonomous television if it's not for propaganda and manipulation? In short, tell me, Mr Baldoví, whether your initiative is a matter of equality, of the right of all citizens to access the information and contents of their autonomous communities, regardless of where they reside, and whether, moreover, it guarantees quality and independent content. Because being liberal is defending that you can watch TV anywhere, but even more so is defending public televisions that are not from any party, that are not from any ideology. That is the work that we all have ahead of us in this House. Stop using the public media...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u91	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u92	...paid with our money, to indoctrinate, manipulate and point out. In our parliamentary group we will continue to work to get your hands off the institutions; on all of them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Mariscal Zabala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u94	Thank you, President. Citizens, even though they criticize VOX, the left is not going to resurrect them. [[Applauds]] By the way, I am proud to be part of a political party that encourages mothers to have their children and that when there is a difficulty, it does not push them to an abortion clinic. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, today you are presenting us with an initiative for public television in the autonomous communities to receive more subsidies and thus be able to broadcast throughout Spain. The justification for us to vote in favour of this initiative is that autonomous television serves to promote the culture and languages of Spain. The VOX Parliamentary Group agrees with this motivation, with the promotion of the culture and languages of Spain, but we will vote against this initiative, because we know that this is not the aim of Compromís. The real objective of Compromís and the parties that will vote in favour of this initiative is to continue to water with public money the autonomous televisions, televisions that generate division between the Spaniards, that generate waste and that, in addition, generate a duplication with Spanish Television. [[Applauds]] In VOX we will not vote in favour of division, waste or duplicity. I'm starting with the first division. Mr de Compromís, in VOX we are not naive and, like millions of Spaniards, we know that their strategy, like that of the other separatist and leftist parties, is not to use them autonomous televisions to unite the Spaniards, nor to vertebrate Spain or to promote the culture and languages of some of their regions; quite the contrary. The Spanish have seen how these parties are using autonomous television as propaganda devices to promote separatism and promote their ideological agendas. We have seen everything on these televisions: we have seen the flag of Spain burn; we have seen how a Constitution has been broken; we have seen how Spanish is demonized, the common language of all Spaniards, and, moreover, it has insulted and ridiculed Spaniards from other regions. In other words, autonomous televisions, far from joining the Spanish, are producing a greater division. The separatists have made them an instrument to confront, instead of promoting the diverse and plural Spain representing the fifty-two provinces. [[Applauds]] We continue for the second d, the squandering one. Mr de Compromís, we are presented with this initiative, but they do not tell us how much it will cost us, because this implies more public money for autonomous television at a time when Spain is going through a serious economic crisis and when there are millions of Spaniards who are already suffering the consequences in the first person. Those Spaniards wonder why they are currently being forced to pay for autonomous television with their taxes. The Spanish understand that it is necessary to pay taxes to have quality public services, such as health and education for their children, or to have a police that protects them from criminals, but what they do not understand is that politicians require them to pay taxes to finance a television they do not see. And it is that these televisions are not cheap at all: Catalan television costs us 250 million euros; Basque television costs 162 million euros a year; Valencian television costs us 70 million euros a year, and Telemadrid costs us 83 million. By the way, thanks to VOX, the Madriders will pay 10% less of Telemadrid's bill, and we will continue to fight for this percentage to be higher and to be produced on other autonomous televisions. [[Applauds]] We do not like Compromís and the left, which now pretend that the Spaniards have to bear a more expensive bill, and not just of light, also that of autonomous televisions. The last one, the one of duplicity. Mr de Compromís, you say that autonomous television serves to promote regional culture and languages and that it fulfils an essential public service, that of proximity information, and we agree, but for that we already have Spanish Television, a television that should fulfil this function and that has about 6,000 workers spread throughout Spain through the territorial delegations, and that already costs us 500 million euros a year. In short, VOX is not going to contribute to continuing to water with millions of euros from public funds a whim of autonomous caciques. We will continue to fight to shut down autonomous televisions, except Spanish Television. As a tool of the State, we will continue to work for Spanish Television to be television...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u95	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u96	... of all Spaniards and from where the culture and vertebration of Spain is really promoted. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u97	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Mr. Baldoví. He's filed the same motion he's been filing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u99	One second, Your Honor. I'm asking for silence, because there's a lot of noise. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u100	As I said, he is presenting the same proposal he has already put forward in this House in the Commission, which he then withdrew, and which he has submitted to the Valencian Courts. When he presented his initiative in October 2020, he said that it was about taking advantage of the resources available so that - he said so textually - all people who have changed territory feel closer to home. How to oppose such an empathetic message? It happened that it was a trap, like many of those you raised, because what you really wanted was to extend the audiovisual carpet to a delusional project called Catalan countries. So your group tabled an amendment in the Senate to the 2021 State General Budgets to acquire a multiplex television for half a million euros, which would allow reciprocity between À Punt, IB3 and TV3. The justification was to defend reciprocity between communities sharing the usual or sporadic use of the common language. In other words, the colonialist party of the independenceists was decreed by the Government and paid by all Spaniards through the State's General Budgets. Other media outlets have also described that behind this proposal is the pressure exerted by the most sovereignist groups of the Catalan Coalition of Compromís to achieve at all costs the reciprocity of signals between the autonomous television stations of Baleares, Cataluña and the Valencian Community. They are looking for a television unit to try to justify in this way a non-existent linguistic unit. That's how the media reflected it. In addition, Mr Baldoví, forgive me for saying this to you with all affection, is cheating, because the reciprocity of the autonomous chains that he asks already exists, as you have remembered here this afternoon, in the Spanish legislation in force - and you know it - in article 40.4 of the General Act on Audiovisual Communication. But there are three essential requirements that must be met: one is the territorial boundary; another is the existence of linguistic and cultural affinities between communities, and the third and last is the existence of an agreement between the territories, and not by a governmental imposition. Do not worry, because, moreover, the preliminary draft of the new general audiovisual law provides in article 72 the same possibility and with the same requirements as today. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous communities can allocate some of the autonomous channels operated in direct management to carry out public channel broadcasts from other communities. Thus, they can decide without mediating action by the State which of their channels can be operated in direct management and, once the relevant convention has been approved, they can be used for public channel broadcasting. If this is so, why then do you insist so much on Compromise, over and over again, on the same thing? Because what Mr Baldoví wants is for the government to impose it, for it to give effect to the autonomous audiovisual reciprocity that is stated in the non-legislative proposal. If you want reciprocity to be mandatory and paid by the Government from the State's General Budgets, which is very legitimate on the other hand, you must propose it in the debate on the new audiovisual communication law, that being the procedural moment and not this, under no circumstances. It is much more interesting and positive, from our point of view, to talk about reciprocity within the European Union, within the framework of the European Union; that is the challenge of the real social and cultural exploitation of exchanges between public television. The current General Act on Audiovisual Communication, and also the preliminary draft, guarantees the freedom of reception throughout the Spanish territory of the television audiovisual communication service, the holder of which is established in a Member State of the European Union. It seems to us that it is much more useful, in many cases, to learn French by seeing the public or Portuguese chain seeing the RTP1 than to see Mr Aragonès, with all my respect, giving instructions to his independent parish, as was his true intention, and not another. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Spanish legislation is fully in line with the European Union, which encourages the dissemination of information on a cross-border basis because of the democratic importance of protecting freedom and the fundamental right to receive information. We are not surprised that the PSOE supports the compromise proposal, because, infected with this pragmatism devoid of any coherence that Pedro Sánchez has imposed in exchange for resisting in power, everything is worth it. Proof of this is that a year ago they tabled an amendment to the same text saying that the possibility will be explored or agreed with the Autonomous Communities and now neither studied nor agreed, the Government is directly required to take the necessary measures to ensure that this is done. That is the great change of the Socialist Party. I used to talk about consensus and now everything is by imposition, all by the partners who support it in government banks. In short, as much as you intend to disguise the initiative, it has only one goal for Compromís, the colonialist expansion - yes, Mr Baldoví - of Catalan sovereignism, to whom you and your party really serve. They'll never find us in that strategy. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u101	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u102	We're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u103	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u104	Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin the presentation of this initiative, I would like to convey, in view of its nature, a very great and very strong message of encouragement to all the associations of victims of terrorism and to all the families of all the victims of terrorism, because they must always be the reason for pride, recognition and demand for all of them, for all the victims of terrorism, dignity, respect and justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Vice-President, Pastor Julián, took the Chair.]] Spain as a whole has been horrified a few weeks ago by the attempt to pay tribute to the murderer Henri Parot, a murderer sentenced to more than 4000 years for 39 murders, and in view of this attempt to pay tribute, we have seen the popular pressure, the pressure of citizens, of some parties, of all associations of victims, of trade unions and associations of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which we have firmly opposed the defence of the right to this tribute, since it is a further unattraction to the victims of terrorism. And what we have seen - I think with surprise in some cases, in others, already known - has been that on the other side there were the usual ones; there were the albaceas of the terrorist organization ETA, the lords of Bildu, there were some independenceist parties and, lords of the PSOE, there was their silence, which in this case is complicit in what these gentlemen have wanted to organize in the Basque Country. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first tribute to terrorists when they go out of prison. No; in 2020 there were up to 194 tributes to terrorists when they left prison, 58% more than in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, each of these tributes is a humiliation, a re-victimisation of all the family members, of all the associations of victims of terrorism, but above all it is a shame of the whole of Spanish society. Do any of you imagine that in France the murderers of Bataclan were honoured or that in the United Kingdom someone honoured the murderer of Ignacio Echeverría or that in Norway the murderer of the massacre of Utoya was honoured? Do you really think that would be possible? That is not possible in these nations of our environment, which are perfectly democratic, ladies and gentlemen. Why can we put up with this here? Because the government tells us that it has no legal instruments to stop it. There is inaction by the Basque Government, there is inaction by the national Government. But I think there are, of course, options. There is Law 29/2011, the Act on Victims of Terrorism, which states in article 61: Public administrations, in the exercise of their powers, shall prevent and prevent the conduct of acts carried out in public involving the accreditation, contempt or humiliation of victims or their relatives. And continues: Government delegates in the Autonomous Communities will ensure compliance with the obligation set out in the preceding paragraph. There it is, ladies and gentlemen. That's enough with that. Why is that not enough for this government or the Basque government? There's everything. Because these are not tributes that belong to the private sphere of the murderer, they are homages that are made in perfectly organized public spaces and with a clear political content. Moreover, systematically in all those that have been made, there is a rise in the number of terrorists. Therefore, I believe that more can be done. I believe that much more could have been done, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, to all those who support this Government. Much more could be done and not leave the ball on the roof of the judges, as always, what this Government does when it does not want to make any political decisions that run counter to its partners. This Government can do two things: one, do nothing and leave, as always, the ball on the roof of the judges, or it can change this situation. That is what we demand of this Government, to change the situation. If it seems to you that the Victims Act and what I have told you is not enough, they reinforce the Victims Act, amend the Citizens' Security Act, prevent the streets of the Basque Country from being a sanctuary of terrorists and become a place of dignity for the victims. Besides, you have the Democratic Memory Act. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about rewriting the history of the fight against ETA terrorism, it is about making clear what that struggle was, it is about making clear who won and who lost that battle; it is about including the victims in a broad way; it is about paying tribute to the heroes and not paying tribute to the executioners. You have in your hand a good instrument, do not convert the Democratic Memory Act into the law of democratic amnesty or democratic amnesia or the law of selective democratic memory, which I fear you will do. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what Sortu was saying about those who are opposed, precisely, and those who are critical of these tributes. I read: Those who object to a mother, father, or brother being able to embrace a loved one on his release from prison have the object of imposing a single account of winners and losers. There you are, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. His partners in Bildu and Sortu have made this very clear to him, very clear. That is the reality and that is the objective of these tributes. He's no other than that. Of course, there is only one account, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one account: that of Spanish society, that of the State Security Forces and Bodies, that of the judges, that of the prosecutors, that of democracy, which was the one that defeated and defeated the terrorist band ETA, and in which the defeated were no more than the murderers who caused so much pain. That's the story, ladies and gentlemen. That is the story that must be preserved, and for that you have the Law of Democratic Memory in hand. To Sortu and to the albaceas of ETA representing Bildu I tell you that the mothers, parents and brothers who will never be able to embrace, never, their loved one are the relatives and friends of all those killed by ETA. To them, and only to them is this intervention intended, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Beltrán Villalba.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, day after day we see how in the streets and in the squares of Navarre and the Basque Country there are tributes to murderers who are proud to be so. We see day after day how these tributes are part of a political strategy to turn the worst murderers in our democracy into heroes, a political strategy to launder the crimes of the terrorist band ETA. In the Palace of La Moncloa, in Navarre and in the Basque Country we are governed by those who have renounced the moral battle, we are governed by those who have kneeled before the political heirs of the terrorist gang. Only in this way can it be explained that, before these covens, the Government confines itself to expressing hypocritical opinions without prohibiting them. Condemning these tributes on Monday is absolutely useless if on Tuesday you agree to state policies with those who organize it. Presuming services provided against terrorism is incompatible with allying with ETA's heirs to rule in Navarre and to reach the Government of Spain. And defending the dignity of the victims of terrorism is also incompatible with integrating the executioners into the leadership of the State. That is what you Socialists do, and I want to address you. That's what Pedro Sánchez does when he deals with Bildu Batasuna. Yesterday we saw in this same Congress, in the Congress of Deputies, a deceivable, unusual and unjustifiable episode. Don't lower your face, because I'm addressing you. I know you're ashamed to hear it, but listen to me, please. [[Protests]] Well, yeah, be brave to put your face on, man. [[Applauds]] It was just missing. Indeed, so, face to face, as I will speak to you, face to face. Yesterday we saw here an episode, as I say, deceivable, unusual and absolutely unjustifiable. You voted against decorating the national police officers who fought against terrorism in Navarre and the Basque Country. Yesterday they refused to award an unretired medal to agents who have been murdered in cold blood, vexed, humiliated and socially isolated; you socialists. [[Applauds]] What has that Socialist Party become? What have you become? What have they become? No more justifications, no more excuses and no more looking away. Our streets cannot be the playground of ETA spokespersons. Our country cannot become a sanctuary for the cult of the terrorist, let alone with the complicity of the Government, much less. You know that in Navarre and the Basque Country an ecosystem of hatred has been created, an ecosystem of hatred defended and promoted by Bildu Batasuna. That is why everything that we are talking about here today, everything that we are doing here will serve absolutely nothing as long as the Sánchez government sees Bildu as an ally and not an enemy of democracy. President Sánchez and Minister Grande-Marlaska are pastors who take care of the wolves. They whiten them, pass their hands around their backs and consider them their preferred partners. These wolves have been thrown into Moncloa because of a weak government, which has renounced the dignity of the Basques, the dignity of the Navarros and the dignity of all Spaniards. Rule by the hand of Bildu Batasuna prevents you from taking the necessary steps to end anti-democratic episodes such as celebrations for ETA members on the street. And you know, Socialists, what is the difference between you and the People's Party? No one's looking at me again. A little respect, that I'm talking to you, to the whole bench. Of course, it's embarrassing; I'd give it to myself too. How can you not embarrass me? Do you know the difference between the Socialist Party and the People's Party? Do you know which one it is? [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u109	I'll make it very clear to you. We stand to be the speaker of Spain outraged at these facts and you, instead, before taking any step, look through the rearview mirror to see if Bildu Batasuna gives his approval. That is the difference between you and the People's Party; that is the difference. [[Applauds]] And are you aware that you are in agreement with a party that continues to protect murders, kidnappings and extortions? I know you do, I know you know you do, but for you, power is worth it. Why do they criticise tributes to age-olds if they then sit at the government table with those who exalt child killers, such as Henri Parot? Why do they prefer to get along with gunmen's defenders rather than Democrats we've never killed anyone? Here the equidistance is not worth. Either he's with the victims or he's with the executioners. [[Protests]] The average term is simply to be an absolute accomplice, like you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Beltrán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also set a position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote in favour of this Citizens' initiative, which unfortunately shows that a part of Spanish society is morally very ill when it pays tribute to those convicted of terrorism, while the Government takes a big look at the holding of acts of exaltation towards criminals, which, at the same time, result in humiliation for the victims and intimidation for those living in the localities and territories where they occur. It is painfully sad to see how many acts of terrorist exaltation are taking place year after year, but it is that, without leaving the General Courts, we see how the Government has given a political letter to a parliamentary group, EH Bildu, representing those who promote such uproars, and they have been major and decisive actors for Pedro Sánchez to be invested and the Government can carry out budgetary legislation every year. What can surprise us from a president who a year ago deeply regretted in the Senate plenary the death in prison of a prisoner convicted of terrorism! Ladies and gentlemen, it is the world upside down: the indispensable firmness towards those who have sown death, pain and anguish gives way to reaching and remaining in power without, moreover, the slightest gesture or sincere sign of repentance. Hence the relevance of this parliamentary initiative, so that the delegations of the Government are not tolerant or passive towards the tributes of terrorists, and that in Spain these acts of humiliation are avoided and pursued to the victims, totally undemocratic, who weaken the values of our society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Friday I went to Leitza, like many others, to pay tribute to Corporal Juan Carlos Beiro, Corporal of the Civil Guard, who was killed by the terrorist band ETA nineteen years ago. I was there with his widow and one of his sons, who was twenty-five years old, that is, he was six when they murdered his father. Today, when we started the session, the President of Congress said: you must behave well; you imagine what you think about all these young people - which I share -. And I say: do you imagine this son - but, like all those there have been - mothers, wives, husbands, etc., seeing how the murderer of his loved ones is honored? But do you imagine that image? Can you imagine that action? What can you tell that kid? What do we say to him as a society? That your father is well dead? That they killed him because he had to be killed, what do some parties say here, and that he supports the Socialist Party; he relies on them? Is that what you have to say? What are we giving to society? I am not going to the socialist bench; I am going to hold on to this which has become famous, I am going to the millions of socialist voters: how they can consent to this, how they can see with good eyes that the murderers of a lot of people are received as heroes, and their government does nothing about it, how they can afford it, how they can go on the street being members of the Socialist Party and allowing those people who murdered a lot of people, on behalf of I don't know what, come out and can be honored. [[applause]] How are we gonna explain that to them? What society are we making? That's what's happening. And why does that happen? Because President Sánchez owes the votes to Bildu, we all know that. And does anyone think that Bildu voted for President Sánchez because he was going to repeal the labor reform, which it was a year and a year ago that was already agreed? Does anyone really think that? Bildu agreed and made Sánchez president precisely so that he could honor the murderers, so that they could get out of jail, so that they could be at home, and that's why he agreed. And what's the problem? That Sánchez accepted, which certainly had not done any president in Spain. So the problem of tributes, of course, is those who do, but of course those who allow it. You can't be with the murdered and the murderers, you have to choose which side you're on. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u114	Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with an issue that directly affects the process of normalisation and coexistence that has been being built in our country for more than a decade. A difficult, hard and complicated debate that generates heated and conflicting debates, because it touches feelings, pains and sufferings. I believe that Basque society in Euskal Herria is aware that enormous steps have been taken to build lasting peace and coexistence based on the recognition, truth, justice and reparation of all the victims that the conflict has generated. And I think we are also aware that there are still steps to be taken and consequences to be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, the conflict has left many wounds open and remains open; it has generated many violations of rights that are still present, and we believe that we must address them all from the conviction that, from listening, dialogue, respect and empathy, we will be able to resolve the issues that still pose obstacles to building the future together that we long for. That is why I would like to be clear and honest today. The Basque independenceist left is not alien to the pain of the victims, understands, recognizes and respects their suffering, that of all, also that of the victims of ETA. Because yes, the long years of violent conflict have left deep wounds, immense pains that will cost healing, and we are aware of that. We are also aware that the emergency prison policy against Basque prisoners and prisoners for decades has caused pain in thousands of families, a prison policy that is still in force, and that it does not recognize or respect the rights of Basque prisoners and prisoners as well. Dispersal, isolation, isolation, the extension of sentences, all this exceptional legislation applied ex-professor against prisoners has also been and is a human rights violation that must be brought to an end as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, to deny it is not to want to amend or recognize all the sufferings and pains and, as I have said before, we and we recognize and respect each and every one of them. For this reason and, as I have said, knowing the complexity and hardness of addressing such a sensitive issue for so many people and families as is that of the ongi etorri, I would like to move that the independent left understands the discomfort of the victims who feel hurt by the reception of former Basque prisoners in their places of origin. [[The lady]] We understand that these acts can generate feelings of pain or suffering. We understand and respect it; therefore, we are willing to listen to all of them and to talk to all of them, with all the victims who are willing to dialogue about all of this with the will to move forward. And we would like to do so in our country, in Euskal Herria, in a calm and sincere manner, with constructive will among all, with the victims, with the political and social actors, and with our institutions. Therefore, we ask that we do not use a subject as complex and hard as this as a political weapon; that we do not use this House to generate more confrontation, more bitterness and more hatred; and that we do not use the obstacles that exist and will exist on the path of coexistence to attack the political adversary and embarrass the debate, as is being done here today, because if we really want to continue building the way, we must all show great responsibility and historic heights to continue to advance in that shared goal of a future in peace and coexistence. I hold hands with you, ladies and gentlemen, to put aside the rift and confrontation, and to address these situations by trying to make a shared exercise of empathy, listening and understanding, because all of you, all of you who have suffered and suffer the consequences of this conflict deserve it, and because that is what Basque society expects and demands of us and ourselves. We are willing to do so, I hope that all of you will be prepared to do so too. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u117	Thank you very much, President. It presents citizens an initiative to require the Government to ensure that demonstrations or meetings do not reoccur which lead to the rise of terrorist offences or of those who committed them, or which lead to discrediting, less or humiliation of the victims or their families, and all this with particular reference to the terrorist activity that ETA has carried out for sixty years. The reading of the initiative expresses a complaint about the permissive activity of the governmental authorities in the face of the continued commission of the crime contained in article 578 of the Criminal Code, which is to be remedied. However, ladies and gentlemen, the facts deny this grave accusation, because if reality were as described, it would assume that the governmental powers are complicit in the commission of crimes and that they should have been denounced, tried and convicted. None of these things have happened to date, however, and not even those who hold such serious accusations in this House and in the public square have made any criminal charges. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because they know they're not telling the truth. The Government is now called upon to ensure that the acts reported do not occur again. And I would ask Citizens and other political parties: should this be done outside the courts? Is it possible in a liberal democracy that the executive power, outside the criminal judicial power, prohibits ex ante a demonstration on the grounds that it in itself involves the commission of a crime of exalting terrorism or humiliating the victims? Is this what the lordships of Citizens propose? Is this a valid criterion in a liberal democracy? Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, where is the separation of powers for you? Or do they also handle it to your liking? Ladies and gentlemen, today all these so-called gypsies, expressed through the right of demonstration and assembly, are supervised by the criminal justice system, by the National Court before it is held, because it is placed in another way to determine whether with them it is involved in the objective elements that determine the criminal type of exaltation or humiliation of 578 of the Criminal Code. When the National Court, as competent in terrorist offences, concludes by order on precautionary measures that it is not appropriate to prohibit an act, it shall be held, without prejudice to the supervision as to whether any offence, including the offence of exaltation or humiliation, is committed. And when the National Court concludes by self-prohibition, it is prohibited. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, in a rule of law with separation of powers when someone is accused of committing a crime, and not as you propose, that the government replaces or anticipates the criminal judiciary without a flagrant crime. Ladies and gentlemen, now Citizens in a self-amendment proposes that these acts be prohibited even if they do not involve the commission of the offence of 578 and that the Citizens' Security Act be amended to constitute these acts in honour of terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, this is precisely the criminal conduct sanctioned in 578, in addition to that of humiliation. In addition, Organic Law 9/1983, on the exercise of demonstration and assembly, determines that the governmental authority shall suspend or'dissolve a demonstration or meeting in accordance with criminal laws or for serious alterations, public disorders that are dangerous to persons and their property. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask: Is it in a liberal democratic state that the right to assembly and demonstration is limited beyond the assumptions currently contained in Article 5 of Organic Law 9/1983? It is a right which, in turn, is a vehicle for the freedom of expression in which it is founded and by which democratic systems are identified, as opposed to authoritarian systems. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - and I am finalising this - no matter how much we reject the exercise of the right of demonstration and assembly in some cases, such as those described in your initiative, your ex ante prohibition or suspension, as well as its development, must be framed by the current limitations contained in Article 5 of Organic Law 9/1983 and in the resolutions of the criminal courts, not replacing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u118	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez, I am sincere in telling you that we were not going to participate in this for many reasons, but the truth is that I have listened to you from my office, I have started taking notes and I have said: Let's counter some of the things. You speak of tribute to terrorists, of humiliation to the victims. In fact, specifically you have ended up saying, with a grandiose phrase: It is about making clear who won and who lost. Is that so? Do you have any kind of responsibility in Madrid? I think it's very similar to a tribute to voting against keeping Justa Freire's street and placing a street on a terrorist, a fascist, and a murderer like Millan-Astray. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, or worse. And you participated in it. There are debates that you, who are increasingly residual, feel good about; mental health feels good about you. There are others who strive to compete for the copyright they had and have lost disastrously with VOX, such as those in Catalonia and ETA. They're never gonna get that copyright back. If you want to disappear, follow this path. Do you know what happened while you were voting with the right and the right to pay tribute to a terrorist, a fascist and a murderer like Millan-Astray - you talking about France - who remembered The Nine, because you are anti-fascist; the liberals in France - you fill your mouth to talk about liberalism - are right-wing, Macron is more right-wing than the tap of cold water, but it is anti-fascist, which you sometimes forget. We are not going to accept lessons from those who keep quiet while the Nazis camp their wide for Chueca. Never. We will never accept lessons from those who here dare to claim a house of torture - it is not opinion, it is information!- as Via Laietana. [[Applauds]] To say that in Via Laietana people have been harassed for decades is not of independenceists, eh?, it is of antifascists. And claiming here or saying it's a wonderful public service is, at least, a shame. And here I also put the PSOE and his secretary of state, who the other day gave real shame. [[Applauds]] I recommend that you follow the example of people like Consuelo Ordóñez, Teresa Lluch, Maixabel. There's a wonderful movie now, which is coming out, around this. And above all, I ask you to stop using this Congress as a focus of hatred. Stop using it. And stop competing to savages with VOX, who will always win them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u120	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u121	Dear President, dear colleagues, we repeat again something that many of us have been carrying since childhood, we suck it in our families: that violence is not used against anyone. But no one has explained it better than feminism when it says that with violence zero tolerance; with no violence, even against microviolence. No violence that aggravates the pain of the victims, of those who have suffered can be tolerated; no microviolence on the part of anyone, because that which in the end generates an unnecessary pain, an added pain, with which we cannot be accomplices in any case, with no tribute to any person who has caused unjust harm to other people, no matter on which side it is, no matter what the tribute, no matter what the medal, no matter what decoration it is awarded. Our group is continually presenting it this way and from that legitimacy we are putting our position here today. The name of the film that is currently being released, Maixabel, by Icíar Bollain, has just been mentioned. I strongly recommend, especially to those people who are still installed in hatred and revenge, that they see it, because I am absolutely convinced that when they have the least contact with a person as big as Maixabel Lasa they will be better people and will begin to overcome the hatred and the desire for revenge that corrodes them. Maixabel Lasa is a woman who was murdered by her husband, with whom she had been a partner since her adolescence, and together they fought since their communist militancy against the Franco dictatorship and later against all the violence that was taking place in those horrific years of the Basque Transition against all terrorist, anti-terrorist, para-police groups, etc. He is a person who, when he arrived in the Civil Government, was evicted from there another of whom as a civilian governor had participated in the dirty war. Moreover, those who were responsible for the dirty war not only had one etorri ongi, but two: one on entering prison and one on leaving prison. And all this is absolutely unforgivable. A victim of violence cannot be revictimized. They have suffered too much all of them, and we cannot add a millimetre more of pain and suffering. These days Arnaldo Otegi has made some statements in which he praises the position of Maixabel Lasa and her daughter Maria. He praises them by saying that they are people who have acted with great respect and responsibility. Arnaldo Otegi himself has once said, and he has said so, that ETA has unjustly harmed its victims. Well, nice words are fine, but you have to move from words to deeds. If a person considers that Maixabel Lasa or her daughter are acting with great generosity, it is time to respond to generosity with generosity. If a person says that ETA has caused the victims unjustly pain, it's time to end any unjust pain for any victim, it's time to end now. He has announced Mertxe Aizpurua that they are going to take steps, that they need to take steps and that they are going to take steps. We are looking forward to seeing them, because we are looking forward to having that Basque society which, as it is going on today, is moving towards reconciliation, is moving towards healing wounds, forgiving itself, is moving on the path of meeting again, when, unfortunately, we live in a world in which people are moving further and further away and every day is breaking more bridges and digging trenches. Fortunately, there are big people who don't. I ask Euskal Herria Bildu to take steps forward, to put an immediate end to the ongi etorri, to put all his authority in that this does not happen again and there is no revictimization. And I say this from the authority of those who have opposed all the tributes, to all - because here there are people who have different measuring rods - to all the people who have caused unjust damage. If you do not want to listen to us, please listen to civil society, listen to Icíar Bollain when he tells you that it is a shock that the victims have to see the ongi etorri. Understand it and put an end to this horror. We are going to vote against this motion because, as has been explained above, it does not solve anything at all, it seeks the holder and it is not a question of initiating procedures that the justice will then file because they are useless. Let's leave the headlines and fight for solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. Mr Salvá Verde has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u123	First of all, Madam President, thank you very much. Today in this debate I am hallucinated by what I have heard. First of all, what is an etorri ongi for a victim? I'll explain. An etorri ongi is as if they opened the grave of my son or of any victim killed by ETA, with the permission of the PSOE government, and the stage of turn put a stab in the remains or shot him and the PSOE spit in the remains. That's an etorri ongi. [[Applauds]] If one reads the law mentioned by the spokesman for Citizens, Law 21/2011, of 22 September, says it very clearly; I will not repeat it again because he has already said it. In reply to what the various groups have said, first I will address the PP bench, whose speech I liked very much. I must remind you that the Bolinaga doctrine is yours. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. That of bringing a prisoner closer to the Basque Country... [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, I think so, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u124	Mrs. Beltrán, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u125	I can get caught up in everything, in what you want, selling a car, with a law, but in urology I don't get caught up in it, and Bolinaga hurt as much, almost as much as the day my son was killed, since I voted for you and helped you in the election campaign. That was a knife, and I say it loud and clear. [[Applauds]] To answer to the people of Bildu, and forgive me that I did not call you lords, I will tell you one thing: If you want to advance in something, a wound has to suppurate. From a pus wound - as a doctor I am -, when you swell the scalpel you have to come out the whole pus. If the whole pus does not come out, it closes in false, and the result may be worse. What needs to be done is that, of the 379 cases - including those of Carlos and Diego - that are not resolved, they are voluntarily presented in the police stations and in the courts. [[Applauds]] From there, I'll believe you. In the meantime, everything you say is absolutely useless, it's more of the same. And I will tell you something else, though it is a very repeated scoundrel: I would already like to go and see my son to Huelva, instead of having him three meters underground, because I have to bring him a flower. The rest is Chinese tale. [[Applauds]] And I say it here loud and clear. I am not going to read anything, but I can tell the Spaniards that, when you are a victim, you are a victim of everything: you are a victim of ETA, you are a victim of the Ministry of the Interior, you are a victim of the Constitution, you are a victim of the National Court, no one listens to us. When you're a victim, you have to know that victimism will always be with you. With regard to the authorities and all those who would have to protect us, we are absolutely unprotected. Honestly, I'm tired, we're tired. That's why I'm here and it's an opportunity, even if I only have a minute, to say that if we don't do something, this is going to go exactly the same, because killing a child is the worst thing that can happen to you. To the lordships of Bildu I will tell you a very clear thing, there is something I do not wish you, that I say I do not wish you, and that is that you are killed by a son. Finally, since I only have forty seconds left, I can say that in Spain being a criminal, a terrorist, a chorizo is a joke, Spain is the paradise of these people. And so that all this doesn't happen again, there's only VOX left, and the others don't. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u126	Thank you, Mr. Salvá. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u127	Thank you, President. Before we begin, Madam Speaker of the People's Parliamentary Group, you were not present when the President of Congress called on this and the decorum of this House. Three interventions have lasted that moderation! [[Applauds]] Mr Gutierrez, first of all, let me also ask you a question: With this action of what you understand to be doing politics, which to me is not, what are you really looking for? More confrontation? More use of victims to take out more headlines or more votes? Or do they just want the pat on the back of their natural shelter, the People's Party, before they finish expressing that orange, which I don't have much juice left? Do they really not understand that these, who organize offensive receptions for terrorists, seek only that, that they facilitate new episodes in the media? [[Applauds]] They only succeed in giving prominence to a terrorist gang that left their weapons ten years ago thanks to all Spanish society and with a socialist government. [[Applauds]] Look, they're going to towing from other groups. From this initiative to blaming the menas of all the evils of the world, homophobia or twisting the Constitution at their will remains a very short distance, so short that it is defined only in three letters: VOX. First of all, we know that we Socialists regret and strongly reject the tributes to the prisoners of age, who, while claiming murder, because that is what they do, humiliate the victims with insolence. We are going to end this phenomenon, which disgusts us, as we did with ETA in the past. But here the forms do matter and the law must be enforced. Your Honor, I will explain to you one of the great differences between what you and I stand for. When I was the age my son is now, what we normally saw on the news, on TV was an attack, victims, pain and a terrified society, as well as terrified. See if things have changed that my son doesn't know what ETA is today. Today my son doesn't know what an attack is on a Civil Guard headquarters house... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u129	...or against a bus full of soldiers or any of the other episodes that have been recorded in the collective memory of the Spaniards. Have you been worried about calculating how many lives have been saved since the ETA terrorist gang left their weapons? I'll tell you, an average of twenty-nine people a year. Isn't that an achievement? Isn't that an achievement? Do you really think that removing this reality from the present is not an advance? In short, instead of facing and asking impossible, what they could do is help to lower the climate of chryspation and propose viable alternatives. This government is working to make legislation in this House - as the Minister of the Interior said a few days ago - and that these expressions - also those that we saw the other day by undesirable Nazis in the Chueca neighborhood - contrary to law without palliatives. We are working on it, because that is our weapon, to legislate, but without violating fundamental rights, which also marks the Constitution. Look at these words: It's demented, it's embarrassing and it's indecent, the most beastly tributes to ETA prisoners have occurred and been made when the People's Party ruled, there's nothing but looking at the Radicalization Observatory. [[applause.-Mr Gutiérrez Vivas makes negative signs]] They're his traveling companions. Do you know who says that? The president of the Collective of Victims of Terrorism, the sister of one of the many who were killed. Plurality, ladies and gentlemen, is the best inheritance left to us by the 1978 Constitution, to which we owe it. And the best tool to bring all possible performance to that plurality is consensus; consensus, not confrontation; helping to live together, not radicalizing positions; uniting, and not breaking. To finish, I repeat. The position of this political group, the only one in this House that has more than one hundred and forty years of history - and therefore lessons of democracy and consensus, none, especially my Basque colleagues - is clear and striking: the same intolerance against all those who invade public space, our streets with any act of exaltation of violence, of their memory, whether it be terrorist, homophobic, fascist or xenophobic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gutiérrez, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u131	Madam President, we have made a compromise amendment with the Group of the European People's Party, which I believe the lawyers have to distribute to the rest of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u132	Thank you so much. We shall therefore put to the vote the terms of the compromise amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that Mr Díaz Gómez has expressed to me his willingness to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the inappropriate expression referring to a Member of the Council of Madrid, which I thank you for and this will be done 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u133	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the shortcomings in the professional management of the National Health System and the measures envisaged by the Government to resolve it. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u134	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group tabled a motion following an inquiry, which we presented last week to the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, all the initiatives on healthcare professionals we put forward in this House will be insufficient to highlight that healthcare professionals are the main asset of the National Health System. This is the only thing we agree with the minister, considering her intervention last week. But the points of encounter with her in terms of professional ordination come all the way there. The Ministry of Health's human resources policy has been clearly inefficient since June 2018, and that is why I hope today that the motion will be approved, to transfer useful measures to the government to solve the problems faced by healthcare professionals. Today it's been three years, and nothing yet. As we have seen, since the beginning of the pandemic, professionals have shown us how they are able to quickly reorganize themselves, and, in addition, they have had to look for life in the absence of protective equipment because of a government unable to manage quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 147 000 health care workers have been infected and many have lost their lives, but in the government they still do not see COVID as a profession of risk. In this respect, we in the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction have included in its opinion, which was adopted by a large majority of this House over a year ago, a series of motions for resolutions referring to human and professional resources. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today the Sánchez Government has not complied with any of the proposals. For example, the human resources plan that we proposed in the People's Parliamentary Group, with measures of employment stability, improvements in remuneration policy and incentives to rural areas, today we ask again in the motion, as well as the impetus of policies of planning and professional development to meet the qualitative and quantitative needs in a planned way, thus avoiding mismatches and bottlenecks between supply and demand. On the other hand, last week the minister announced a specialist needs study for 2021-2035, when in the Ministry of Health there are already four studies, and the study, ladies and gentlemen, is not the solution. In the field of specialized health training, the Reconstruction Commission also approved an increase in the number of places in the territories that so require. Ladies and gentlemen, the call for health training places 2021-2022 has not covered anything approved in this House. I'll give you an example. In my community, Castile and Leon, the need for family doctors and 2 See page 27. It is extremely important and there is a fact that, in addition, health care needs to be covered in areas that are unpopulated or difficult to cover, but this year 161 places are offered compared to 178 in 2020; with 18 fewer places, poor planning is being made, gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the parties that support the government. This will not alleviate the shortage of professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything should come out of this questionable motion, it is that the Government is shielding the MIR model and not giving in to independence blackmail, because we are talking about health; and even less so with specialized health training. If our health system is an international reference, it is mainly by our professionals. Giving in to one more payment of independence would mean annihilating a successful model with forty years of trajectory. With regard to primary care, which is the first level of health care and which requires more human and material resources, in 2018 a great deal of work was done on the interterritorial council endorsed by all the autonomous communities regardless of the political sign of their governments. This work enabled consensus to be reached on a number of recommendations that formalized issues such as the identification of vacancies and deficient specialties, encouragement for specialists working in hard-to-cover areas, and flexibility and speeding up of teaching units for specialized training. And what happened to them? Well, they've fallen into a broken bag. They are recommendations that cannot wait any longer to resolve the urgent reform that primary care needs. Ladies and gentlemen, primary care professionals have been overwhelmed, with unprecedented pressure; they have had to deal with face-to-face and telephone care and carry out administrative work. Resuming the pre-pandemic activity requires short-, medium- and long-term measures, because the strategic framework for primary care has not been developed and is also incomplete. In this regard, the Government has convened a monograph on primary care this week. Are they going to propose useful and real solutions to this problem or are they going to do as in the Resilience Plan, in which they allocate zero euros to the reform of primary care? On teaching units, will the Government apply criteria for applying and improving the supply of places? Is it going to improve the conditions for the professionals who complete the training to stay in the areas where they have been trained if they wish? Will the Government review the legal system to establish a more agile and flexible procedure for the accreditation of teaching units? Will it encourage the provision of hard-to-cover places throughout the National Health System? With regard to the approval of certificates, will it speed up the procedures for the approval of specialists from outside the European Union? Do you think it is reasonable that large professionals from other countries have been awaiting approval for more than two years? Similarly, it is important that health professionals of retirement age and full physical and mental abilities are able to remain in active service on a voluntary basis. Is the government going to do something about this? I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to reach agreements. Health professionals demand them and Spanish people need quality, accessible and equitable health care regardless of where they live. I therefore ask you to support this initiative to improve the development of the main asset of the National Health System: health professionals. It is time for fewer promises and more compliance with the commitments made in this House and in the inter-territorial council. Don't lose the little credibility they have left. Health professionals don't deserve this. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano spoke in defence of the amendments tabled by her groups, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u136	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Velasco, in my previous speech I told Mr Echenique that I had to allow him to make a criticism about him proposing the initiative we had for debate and now, Mrs Velasco, he will allow me to make a criticism to you too. You said that this problem of lack of specialists is older than cough. You said that we already have four studies, but I have here the first paragraph of one of the studies that has been carried out by a canarian university - by the way, Beatriz González López-Valcárcel was here in the Reconstruction Commission - and in the first paragraph of this study, which is for 20182030 and the last revision of 2019, says: This is the fifth edition of the analysis of medical human resources in Spain. And, of course, if this is the fifth edition, there have been governments of both of you and you have been in the government. Therefore, if you come here to present this proposal immediately, you have your grace. But it is also graceful that this royal decree-law - it will allow me to remind you -, the Royal Decree-law 16/2012 of urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the health system, which was approved when you were in government. It was the biggest bite that has been given in thirty years to the salary conditions of health care workers and was one of the reasons, together with the replacement rate that was imposed, for the current situation of lack of stability of staff. I think it is necessary to contextualize the debate and to know where we come from in order to get to this situation. You in the motion put forward various proposals that were essentially ordered in four blocks. Some are aimed at human resources planning. As we have repeatedly said, remuneration policy and other aspects of human resources management are the competence of the autonomous communities and therefore we do not believe that they should be addressed here. On the other hand, in relation to the encouragement of places with difficult coverage, it is also the autonomous communities that will have to see how they can encourage them; in our case, for specialists to go to the Hospital de Leza. Another block is the incentive of working life. They already have the possibility of being up to 70 years old and we see that Escriva is concerned that the working life of all professionals will be extended. Our parliamentary group sincerely would like to see measures taken to facilitate access to the profession of the younger people. We think it would be a better average. They then also have a block of proposals for specialized health training. That is where I would like to talk about the amendment that we, as a group, have tabled. I think it is very important to talk about this. You are talking about applying criteria for the expansion and improvement of the supply of specialized health training places and we believe that this offer should be based - and certainly part of - the autonomous health authorities, integrating the general offer of the State. It is not that we want to break up cohesion or dehomogenize, because the criteria that are laid down are in many cases at European level. They propose in the sixth point of their initiative to amend paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 26 of Law 44/2003 on the organisation of health professions. On this issue, we believe that those who have to establish the criteria for deciding - or at least participating - are the autonomous communities and that they have to be those who subsequently participate in the accreditation of these centres for specialized training. Finally, with regard to its eighth point, we call for compliance with the provisions of the Statute of Basque Autonomy, that is, to transfer the functions and services necessary for the exercise of the competence of the approval of foreign degrees and studies in university education. That bottleneck you've been talking about would stand out if it were the autonomous communities that decided and intervened.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u137	Mrs. Gorospe, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u138	Thank you. That's very kind of you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u140	Thank you, President. The People's Parliamentary Group made an urgent appeal to the Minister of Health, in which it criticized some aspects of the Government's attitude towards health professionals. It is true that many of these aspects are commonplace in the governments of Spain. The People's Party itself, with absolute majorities, did not undertake the reforms it is calling for here today. It is also true - I want to be fair to everyone - that the pandemic has strained the system to the point that it has been seen the seams and we have been able to see how the health professionals are holding up, despite the evil of the health and the regulatory apparatus that supports it. We share some of the issues that the People's Party brings here and they are very interesting, but, in addition, most of them are in the agreements that we reached at the reconstruction table, and I will end with a few questions in this regard for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We find stability in employment interesting. One of the permanent demands of professionals, but also of specialists in health economics, is stability in employment. By not changing the scope of action of the health professionals on which they work and by having a stable population on which they carry out their work, the work of the health workers is greatly favoured. On the other hand, there are many proposals, especially in specialized training, which I believe is the great battle horse that we have pending: we must equip the Spanish health care with the specialists that are needed. Some progress has been made - I insist on the idea that when the Government does something right, it must also be said - in the fields of child psychiatry and adolescence. Continue along that path and move further. There are more specialties knocking on the door, more specialties that actually exist, and here there are measures that we consider very useful; also many of them are in the agreements that we reached at the table for reconstruction. The Basque Parliamentary Group complained about the competition issue. There is a clause in paragraph 9 which talks about coordination with the Autonomous Communities. It is understood that all this is in coordination with the Autonomous Communities. I do not think it is a competitive invasive emphasis that is behind this motion as a result of urgent questioning. On the other hand, another of the ills of which public health is suffering right now are the digital skills of the staff. We have missed this in the motion for urgent interpellation and have therefore incorporated it in a compromise amendment to which we have come. We believe that digital skills can ensure that healthcare professionals have the tools and capabilities to deliver high-quality healthcare, taking advantage of the advances in science and technology. It is another of the issues that is also in the agreements of the reconstruction table and I hope they are negotiating, because I know that the main issues that are calling for Republican left or Bildu are all related to the digitisation of health. They're not talking about pardons or disparate tables where some are more than others; I know they're talking about digital health skills. This is particularly important, for example, to ensure that new early detection and diagnosis techniques or non-invasive treatments can be applied to patients with the improvement they represent for their integrity and well-being. They are also important in a context such as the one just put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, in which older professionals will be encouraged to continue working. It is good that you have training in digital skills that, for reasons of age - as many of us here already do - you do not have. We have also missed other measures, such as ensuring that healthcare personnel are able to access digital medical records without restrictions and interoperability. For that they have the unique health card, approved in the State General Budgets, which I see they do not implement. I believe that, yes, they do comply with the budgetary agreements and the reconstruction table agreements in a way that is not aesthetic, many of these issues will be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u142	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is bringing us today a proposal to update the system for the management of health professions, a problem that we would not have if health competences were to be in the hands of the State and were not in the hands of the autonomous communities, as we have asked here in this House since VOX on numerous occasions. [[Applauds]] And you want me to tell you something? Health professionals are tired of legislative texts created by bureaucrats who do not know their real daily reality. The first aspect of this reality that we must put on the table today is wage discrimination, not only between autonomous communities, but among health professionals who work in the same locality and who, depending on the workplace where they provide their services, receive one salary or another. We are talking about a salary difference of between 700 and 1000 euros per month, a very important amount for any family. And it's not the only problem that doctors have to deal with. Did you know that 40% of a doctor's salary varies according to the number of guards he performs? I do, because until now a year ago, when I joined this House as a member of VOX, I have exercised this profession for thirty-three years. Can you imagine the accumulated tiredness of a professional who has already passed the 55-year-old strip and who is forced to keep this pace of guards in order to meet the expenses of his home? Because, otherwise, their income would be drastically reduced. We are treating people to cure them, to alleviate or alleviate their pain and, on many occasions, to save their lives, and it is vital that we understand each other. This does not seem to matter to them, because, if not, it would not explain the hiring of doctors who do not speak Spanish, as has happened in Andalusia this summer; or the imperative of speaking Catalan with which the optionals who want to work in Balearic Islands find themselves, with which the communication becomes frankly complicated. [[Applauds]] Not to mention the need to have the specialty of emergency medicine, recognized in twenty-three European countries and which in Spain is not recognized, which my group has led to this House and which have refused to start. The lack of emergency specialists ultimately causes a pneumologist to be receiving a myocardial infarction. It would be vital to sort out all these issues, which are nothing more than a brushstroke of the raw reality that our health workers face in their day-to-day lives. I would like to address you and ask you to take a step forward and be courageous and ask once and for all for the only possible solution to this problem, which is nothing other than the return of health powers to the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] To be honest, it seems to me to be an entelequia to talk about a national ordination when these powers are transferred to the autonomous communities, which finally make the recruitment according to their own criteria and according to their budget, which is different from one community to another. We will not oppose this timid proposal that they bring us today, as we consider it a priority to unify the criteria and that professionals have the same obligations and rights where they exercise, but we find ourselves under the obligation to remind them that this situation that we are experiencing is the consequence of the cowardice and incompetence of the various right-wing and left-wing governments that have occupied the Ministry of Health. [[Applauds]] From our group we have added two points to the existing proposals. Point one, encourage the adequacy of the jobs of people who, due to illness or accidents, acquire some disability and adapt them to their new reality without losing their job integration. Point two, if active working life is approved after reaching retirement age, for those who wish to do so, jobs should be adjusted by taking advantage of the worker's experience in the training of other workers and by reducing hours of care work.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u143	Mrs. Jara, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u144	Without much confidence that the current government will do anything to improve the lives of health care workers...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u145	Mrs. Jara, you have to finish, please. I'm sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u146	... we will support this initiative, although these professionals will have to wait to have a fair deal until we reach the government, because to fight for them only remains VOX. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jara. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was extraordinarily relevant and revealing the debate of the interpellation to the Minister of Health that was held last Wednesday at the request of the People's Parliamentary Group and from which this motion derives with nine points that are irrevocable in a context of acute health crisis by the COVID-19 that Spain and the world have been suffering since the beginning of 2020. The first of the points is of crucial importance today, because it affects the need to provide us with a human resources plan, as the pandemic has revealed the precariousness of staff, both in hospital and primary care and in care. Therefore, it is urgent to undertake a plan to facilitate job stability, to correct the very high intermitency and volatility of employment contracts, to bring our health closer to the average professional ratios of the European Union and to improve wages; because otherwise, we will continue to nurture with our doctors, nurses and specialized personnel the health systems of other countries. In this regard, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the popular legislative initiative to substantially increase the number of nursing professionals is under way in this House, and I would like to reiterate that not a few pack bags and cross borders because elsewhere they pay more and treat them professionally much better. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Government has a ministry that bears on its label the demographic challenge, in Spain we have a growing problem and alarming figures of ageing that make it essential to plan the actions so that the demands of primary and care care do not catch us at the same time. The People's Group's motion calls for encouraging the practice of health professions in rural areas, because it is key to caring for the inhabitants of our rural environment and to curb the growing phenomenon of depopulation by not finding in the villages the services necessary for their well-being, starting with health. Another point calls on the Government to establish professional needs planning in the health system in coordination with the university system, to adapt graduate and postgraduate curricula and to adapt specialized health training places to the real needs of the health system itself. It is common sense and is one of the gaps that remains over the decades that, in general, affects a substantial part of the labour market that does not meet its needs. It is therefore appropriate to urge the Government to prioritise the revision of the requirements for the accreditation of centres and teaching units for specialized health training in specialties that have been declared largely deficient, such as family medicine and paediatrics with their specific areas, and also for the application of criteria for the extension and improvement of the provision of specialized health training immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to take the floor in the debate on health issues, while noting that the poor planning, management problems and lack of resources have today in Asturias the model of a perfect storm resulting from the misguided socialist policies, which makes the health system work well and which sharpens its main value: staff. The two points to which this parliamentary initiative refers, concerning the immediate application of criteria for the expansion and improvement of the supply in specialized health training and in the incentive to remain in the job in active service, are also essential in the Asturian education, because, as in other parts of Spain, it has suffered the Escrivá syndrome, derived from the gallimatías to which the Minister of Social Security is dragging us With his pension reform. It is a matter of urgency, as called for in this motion, the implementation of measures and initiatives to enable the experience and capacity of those health-care professionals of retirement age who are in full physical and mental power to remain active voluntarily. In short, I will support the whole of the initiative advocated by Mrs Velasco Morillo because it is constructive, it affects problems that are more than latent in the health system today, it focuses on solutions and, in political terms, it alleviates the instability within a ministry that, since being President Pedro Sánchez less than three and a half years ago, has known four different heads and four management teams and which accumulates a large number of unfulfilled commitments that make the health system the great victim of the government. A little please, Mr Escrivá, is inadmissible in many areas, but especially in health care, that the majority of doctors, nurses, assistants, colerators and other personnel can extend their work beyond 67 years, and even less so until 75 years. No more crazy occurrences, Minister of Social Security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u149	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u150	Thank you, Madam President. The PP calls for support to claim from the Government of the State matters that correspond largely to the Autonomous Communities, but that have not bothered to implement them in those communities in which it governs, as is the case with Galicia. The motion urges, for example, to improve the remuneration policy and to establish incentives while the PP in Feijóo maintains the wage cuts of health workers and continues to fail to comply with the wage and remuneration agreements agreed at the sectoral table and published in the Official Journal of Galicia. With regard to specialized health training, we endorse the amendment proposed by the PNV: greater involvement of the Autonomous Communities and transfer their competence in the accreditation of centres and the approval of diplomas and studies. Nor can we share that proposal on the extension of active service beyond retirement age, in the health and other sectors. It is inconceivable that with high unemployment rates, and in the case of health care, with the high number of trained personnel who must emigrate in search of stable employment, measures such as these continue to be proposed. Provide stability, yes. We call once again for the abolition of the replenishment rate in all public areas, but especially in the health field, and for all the places which are structural today but which are covered by temporary staff concatenating contracts. In short, we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u152	Thank you, President. First of all, at PeCAT we absolutely share the fundamental and extraordinary task that our health workers carry out on a daily basis with self-denial and sacrifice, often lacking sufficient personal and human resources. The Coronavirus outbreak has focused on the health sector, the shortcomings of the system have been revealed to society as a whole and it is the responsibility of public services to respond to them. Having said that, in the PeCAT we have as main axis of our policy the defence of the principle of subsidiarity and the respect for competition, which in the health field belongs to the autonomous communities, which, as in the case of Catalonia, have been managing for more than forty years. In this sense, rather than state plans, what should be done is to improve the autonomous financing, frozen for years and which generates a high debt to the Generalitat de Catalunya. The State has little health competence and has derived all health expenditure from the administrations that manage it, i.e. from the autonomous communities. Since health financing is included in the overall system of funding for the common autonomous communities and it has not changed since 2009, it is clear that we have a problem. We therefore share any measures aimed at improving the working conditions of health professionals, but we would like to stress that, in our view, health problems must be addressed by the competent administrations, i.e. the autonomous communities. Therefore, by addressing only some of the points of the motion aspects that depend on the State, being much of the points of competence of the autonomous communities, we cannot support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u154	Thank you very much, President. I'll be brief. We recognize that there is concern among health professionals about what will be the criterion for the management of health professions, and we really agree on that. Conversations of the collectives with the Directorate-General for Vocational Ordination, which called precisely for official recognition, have been stalled. In that regard, it is an issue on which we know that there is a certain demand, a certain concern and, therefore, we also convey that concern expressed by this same initiative. On the other hand, the change of direction has probably contributed to this and in any case I do believe that in the previous appearance of the Minister of Health a new regulation for the management of the health professions has already been announced by the Royal Decree. In any case, we are waiting for how all this is resolved. Our group has already often insisted on different types of initiatives on, for example, Pesto, specialists psychologists without official qualifications, on what we have asked in writing; on the superior imaging technicians for diagnosis in nuclear medicine; on the superior radiotherapy and dosimetry technicians; on the superior technicians in pathological and cytodiagnostic anatomy; on the superior technicians in biomedical clinical laboratory, and on the superior technicians in dietetics. On this we have already asked for an appearance of the Director General, registered relatively recently. On the subject of surgical nursing care we have a registered PNL, and we have also worked on the debate on the emergency specialty. We have therefore conveyed from our group the concern and the need to resolve this issue. But the points they propose in their motion go one step further and, as always, they do not exactly fall within the competence of the autonomous communities which, in this case in particular, affect aspects such as the recruitment or planning of health professionals. This is not the first time we have told you and you continue to insist. Autonomous communities have full competence and authority to specify the number of professionals they need, taking into account all population factors and criteria, accredited centres, ratios. For example, in Catalonia there is currently a need for places of preventive medicine, occupational medicine, trauma and mental health and, in recent years, progress has been made in the recruitment of new places of family and community medicine. That means that in each community there are different and dynamic realities. The criteria cannot be the same. With regard to accreditations of centres, they should be applied by the Autonomous Communities on the basis of quality scales defined and determined by the Ministry with the consensus of the Autonomous Communities. The ministry must define the barems and the autonomous communities act accordingly according to their needs. It is clear that this barmo must also be crematistically adapted, since among various reasons the flight of professionals is partly due to this. I will not insist any more, because the competition issue is an issue that we are constantly announcing and we see that this initiative totally dispenses with it and what it does is to avoid an issue that we are constantly repeating. Therefore, and for all this, we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u156	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Last week, at the People's Group's inquiry, I was struck by the PP's rejection of timely compensation for health professionals who have so much sacrificed in this pandemic. And of course they have sacrificed a great deal. But health care professionals have been long before the pandemic, suffering cuts, garbage contracts, law fraud interns, frozen wages thanks and directly related to cuts in the People's Party. For the People's Party public investment is an excessive expense, according to the April 1991 report, but diverting public money for private business is certainly an investment for the People's Party. The People's Party likes to make some gift, very often, to workers, but rights don't like to talk. They do not listen when health workers cry out against cuts, when they cry out against the privatization of health care and the deterioration of public services that characterizes right-wing governments. Thanks to its cuts, public health has suffered the untold and its destructive policies of public services are largely responsible for the damage caused by the pandemic. Health workers do not want timely compensation, they want job security, adequate ratios and a patient safety law that allows us to have quality public health. The PP calls for stability measures in employment and an increase in the number of places. Yes, they call for claims that they never supported, and at the same time they call for strengthening the public, they support strengthening mutual insurance of public officials, knowing that it is inefficient, which harms public health and, of course, public workers. I would like to stress a number of issues relating to section 20 of the Professional Management Act that the PP has touched on in some respects. It seems to us that our training MIR, FIR, PIR, etc., which is characterized by high quality, but that quality is at risk since the PP suspended the audits. The discomfort of RIMs is known, for example, because of their poor supervision in some hospitals. We can bring a GNP to the Health Commission, which was approved, demanding the need for audits as a guarantee of quality, although I don't know where that procedure is going, but of course it was approved. We support the development of specific training sites to avoid health fragmentation. On the other hand, we consider that the law should include professionals as superior technicians of radiology, laboratory pathological anatomy, as well as clinical psychologists who are covered by the Public Health Act 2011, but here, in reality, they are not covered. We consider, for example, that much can be said about defense of mental health, but we are not going to if only six places of psychologists are increased in the last call of MIR. We are concerned about the dependence of both specialized and continuing health training on the pharmaceutical industry; we all know that it suffers from this problem. There's a problem that's important. The private health association is putting a lot of pressure on - and we've seen it in the press lately - to increase its power space, and one of the mechanisms is to increase the supply of MIR training in private hospitals. The quality of our public health training system MIR, FIR has demonstrated much that quality and we believe that this training should remain there. We do not want to see an increase in uncontrolled, unsupervised and untransparent IRM training, as is actually the case in private hospital IRM training. We believe that specialisation should be carried out by the public because only the public has the interest of citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u158	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, while rereading your group's intervention in the last speech, Mrs Velasco sincerely did not give any credence. Precisely, coming from you, from a party that was in the government, only in Castile-La Mancha, under the government of Mrs De Cospedal and Mr Rajoy, was able to fire three thousand health workers, was not able to draw a single offer of public employment in four years of government, cut the salaries of the health personnel by 4%, stopped the construction of hospitals in Toledo, Guadalajara, Albacete and Cuenca and degraded our health professionals by saying publicly that in rural emergencies the medical teams are sleeping instead of working. [[applause]] And they come here to give lessons from deficiencies in health resources! Of course, of course you can teach lessons, because you have a master's degree. I congratulate you most sincerely, because this time you have not been given it, but you have earned it at your own pace, a master's degree in how to cut and privatize public health when it governs the People's Party. [[Applauds]] This government is already working on each and every point you bring here, but we go further. On the one hand, we propose to update both the regulation and the functioning of the personnel recruitment system in order to put an end to the temporary and precarious situation, working to adapt to the status of the statutory staff of the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures and, on the other hand, to promote policies of planning and professional development, not prioritised since 2012, so as to encourage the continuous training of professionals throughout their working life and to increase, on a general basis, the staffing levels in co-governance with the competent autonomous communities in this field. Words that, moreover, in the Socialist Party we accompany with facts, and is that with this government the places of specialized health training have increased from 8042 in 2017, its last call, to 10,634 with the call of the Socialist Party, an increase of more than 25%. [[shows a graph]] [[Applauds]] In addition, programs in Health Sciences and procedures to update the legal and forensic medicine specialty, as well as the pediatrics specialty, are already being reviewed. Regarding the increase of MIR doctors, we have moved from 6513 in 2017 the last year in which you called them, to 8188 new places in this 2021, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[shows another graph]] And if we talk about nurses, we went from 1051 in 2017 to 1822 in the last call, more than 40%, almost doubling the last offer of places you made. [[shows another graph]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this data, this fact, this is taking care of the healthcare staff and not what you do when you rule. This is taking care of the healthcare staff. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, Spanish citizens, in this devastating epidemic, have had a government with clear priorities from the very first moment: to make all the necessary resources available to all the administrations so that we can get out of this crisis all of us, giving the autonomous communities 9 billion euros completely lost with which they themselves were able to strengthen and increase their health resources. Listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, strengthen and increase, not cut back, as you did in your management of the crisis of 2011; 9 billion that join the 3400 allocated in the General Budgets of the State to which you have voted against. That's why, Mrs. Velasco, enough hypocrisy! Enough posture by making sure they care about primary care while closing medical clinics in rural areas where they govern. In my region, as a result of the pandemic, your Government, the People's Party, has taken the opportunity to close seventy of the one hundred and eighty medical clinics, i.e. 40% of the Murtian medical clinics closed in the midst of the pandemic. It is enough to use the suffering of Spanish citizens and the effort of our professionals to try to erode the government in an unprecedented pandemic, while you have been able to vote against more than EUR 1 billion to buy vaccines; vaccines to protect our lives, our jobs. This Government has been clear from the outset: first, people, families and public health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u159	Mrs. Sánchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u160	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, the main opposition party has also made it clear: to use this catastrophe to erode the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we are not going to support your demagogy. We will follow the direction set by the President of the Government of Spain, improving the lives of the citizens and the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. Your time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion will be voted on in the terms of the compromise that has already been referred. We'll vote in four minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u164	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the failure to pay tributes to convicted ETA terrorist gangs. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u165	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin the presentation of this initiative, I would like to convey, in view of its nature, a very big and very strong message of encouragement to all the associations of victims of terrorism and to all the families of all the victims of terrorism, because they must always be the reason for pride, recognition and demand for all of them, for all the victims of terrorism, dignity, respect and justice, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the amendment of the Royal Decree of 14 September 1882 approving the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to introduce the offences of usurpation of real estate within those contained in article 795 and to amend article 553 in relation to those same offences. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 131 votes with 210 votes in favour, 341 in favour, 35 votes with 116 votes in favour, 151 in favour, 96 votes against, 90 votes in favour, 186 abstentions, 4 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u167	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, in common, in common, in general, of mental health. [[File number 122/00158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u168	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, general of mental health. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 131 plus 214 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 96 plus 98 telematics votes, 194; against, 10 telematics votes; abstentions, 35 plus 106 telematics votes, 141.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-28-CD210928.u169	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine o'clock at night.
