ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks we have all shared the anguish first and the indignation after the death of Olivia and Anna at the hands of her father. Today we also share the dismay of his mother, whom we want to accompany in these terrible days, as we suffer and also accompany Yaiza's father, whose death we met last week. The pain for their deaths is added to that of the five women killed by gender-based violence in the three weeks since this House last kept a minute of silence for the same cause. I therefore propose that we today express our condemnation of these terrible murders with a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the inquiries, in the sense that the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which appears on the agenda as item 24, is debated before the urgent inquiry of the Republican Parliamentary Group, which appears as item 23 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, organic reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code for the Protection of Freedom of Expression. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today that we are going to discuss freedom of expression, I want to start my speech with a reflection on who was the Attorney General of the United States and Supreme Court judge, Robert Jackson. The judge said in a 1943 judgment that compulsory unification of thought and opinion only obtains unanimity in the cemeteries, because those who begin by forcibly eliminating the discrepancy end up eliminating the dissenters. That is why it is the public power that must be controlled by the opinion of the citizens and not the other way around. This reflection comes to mind because, as Amnesty International reminds us, freedom of expression has suffered a setback in Spain since 2015 precisely because of the will of the public authorities to control the opinion of citizens. The report says that reforms such as the Gallardon Penal Code or the law are a threat to democracy, because they inoculate fear in citizens, because they want to take away citizens' freedoms and accept these cuts, accept them with resignation, without complaining. The message is clear: if you are organized to claim your rights, you can be fined, beaten or taken to the police station. And it's an old message: less social state, more criminal state, more police state. It's the passage from the welfare state to the war state. If you take social rights away from people, that also requires that you take away the freedom to express yourself in order to claim those rights. For that punitive crusade with political power it is not enough, but it requires the assistance of the judges, and in Spain we have a judicial dome that is colonized and kidnapped by the right and that uses the indetermination of certain criminal types to impose an anti-racist view of freedoms. I give you an example: do you know which judges are behind the prison sentences of rappers Hasel and Valtònyc? Those of that bench sure know it: Concepción Espejel and Enrique López. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] They sound like you, don't they? The two judges were challenged and dismissed from the Gürtel case because of their proximity to the People's Party. The first -'Dear Concha' called her her friend and now accused Cospedal - is the one who sent Hasel to prison against the judgement of the prosecutor himself. The second is more famous. Everyone remembers that he was hunted driving drunk and then had to leave the judiciary, the judiciary, but the People's Party rescued him - perhaps because of the favors he was given - and now he is the spokesman for Justice. He is precisely one of those responsible for the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary and also a councillor of Ayuso. Well, he's the one behind Valtònyc's prison sentence. But these cases are not unique, they are not isolated cases. Behind the exhibitions, magazines or censored books, behind the feminist performances pursued or the comics treated as terrorists are always the same censors disguised as judges who feel imbued with the sacrosanct mission of defending and maintaining a certain reactionary idea of Spain. Do you remember those two puppeteers someone sent to jail? Do you know who it was? Well, it was Judge Ismael Moreno, a Francoist ex-cop who surely has never read Montesquieu or Beccaria when they remember that the rule of law must minimize punishment and violence and maximize freedom. According to these liberal and also republican teachings, freedom of expression is not what the right wing says: the freedom to take a few reeds in the middle of a pandemic. Freedom of expression is the freedom to be able to say things that sometimes annoy power and not risk losing freedom, because it will always be preferable to exercise freedom of expression to question institutions and symbols of power than it is the power itself that questions irrefutable spaces in any democracy. That is why our proposal basically has four objectives. First, to shield the exercise of fundamental rights now threatened by obsolete crimes, such as that of offending religious feelings or insulting the Crown. Second, to modernize a penal code with Francoist remorse. Thirdly, to comply with our programme, with the agreement of the Government and also with the mandate of Europe, its institutions and its judges. And fourth, never let any rapper or artist end up in jail for saying what some do not want to hear or for saying what many Spaniards think, such as, for example, that the Bourbons are thieves. And I say it today precisely when we know that the Emeritus King has another undeclared account, this time in Andorra. Authoritarian regimes determine which novels to write, which films to film or which songs to sing, but in a democracy any of these artistic expressions must be judged from the aesthetic, political or moral point of view, but never from the criminal point of view. In a democracy, fiction should never be a crime and no one should go to jail for thinking. In a democracy to whistle a hymn, a politician or even a head of state is freedom of expression. With this proposal of law Spain will stop leading the list of countries with more condemned artists. Spain cannot remain the only country in Europe to send two puppeteers to jail, as it happened four years ago; it cannot be the only country in Europe with one rapper in prison and another in Belgium supported by European justice, as it is now. How many tweeters, humorists, artists, singers or dissidents will have to go to Strasbourg for some to take fundamental freedoms seriously? How many warps or convictions will Spain from Europe have to receive precisely to end relics of the past such as these obsolete crimes? How many times will the Council of Europe or the UN Human Rights Committee have to remember that the Crown has irregular and excessive protection? How many times will this happen for the right to become aware of the need to end that anomaly? The last warning came last week from the Human Rights Committee of the Council of Europe. As on other occasions, Europe reminds us of the anomaly that we have the independence leaders in prison. I know that many of you, what European institutions or judges say, care about a curse or even outrage. For this reason, this Sunday they went out to Columbus to express their hatred and anger, which in the Deep Down was a hatred and a rage against that Europe of human rights which is an uncomfortable mirror where they see reflected their impotent and wounded nationalism. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, there is something indisputable that even you should accept. As much as you feel as your own a symbol or an institution, as your own and only your own, you cannot take away that institution or that symbol from criticism, because democracy, despite what some of you may believe, does not emanate from either a king or a flag. Democracy emanates from the exercise of fundamental freedoms. Freedoms are the true institution that must be preserved and protected above others and, therefore, freedom of expression also protects the criticism that disturbs or offends, that is ungrateful and hurtful and not only the criticism that is comfortable or complacent with the power of turn. And that does not allow anyone who, without engaging in violence, questions central aspects of the established order. That is the price to be paid in democracy, that is the greatness of a democracy. That is why the October 1st, which for you and your judicial arm is a very serious crime - even some still speak of a coup d'état, despite what the Supreme said - in Europe is freedom of expression. That is why the independence leaders are here in prison and in Europe they are free. That is why the burning of the king's photos, which for you and your judicial arm is extremely serious and a crime of reprehensible hatred, in Europe is freedom of expression. That is what the Court of Strasbourg reminds us of over and over again in multiple convictions against Spain. That is also what the U.S. Supreme Court reminds us of, when it says that burning the American flag is freedom of expression, that it cannot be a crime because precisely the flag symbolizes freedom. The contrast is strong. When we contrast that international reality with the Spanish one, some questions arise. What is the symbol of the Spanish flag, which needs that penal heart and chases a humorist, like Dani Mateo, for laughing at it? What does it mean that walking with a plastic vagina in a demonstration is a crime? What does that tell us about the secularity of our state? What does it mean, what does it tell us, that the monarchy needs to be strengthened with criminal repression to pursue criticism or mockery, such as those in the magazine El Thursday? For us it indicates a sign of weakness, it indicates that the less the strength and democratic prestige of an institution or a symbol, the greater the need to resort to criminal law. If you want to defend the prestige of the Church by setting an example, remove your rosaries from the bodies of women; if you want to shield the social recognition of the Crown, accept that it cannot be placed above the law with privileges and honors incompatible with democracy and stop using it as if it were yours and yours alone. Today is an important day because, as we demonstrated at the time that we could give a different economic response to the crisis - different from the one given by the right in 2008 - today we will show that we can give a different democratic response as well. It is true that the crisis has altered the agenda and priorities of this House, but, after more than a year, the progressive forces that we have brought to the People's Party of the Government must once again agree, as we will do today. We're already doing it. First we repeal the crime that allowed the strikers to be prosecuted, then we begin the demolition of the law of gags - which is being amended - and today we are going to take a decisive step with a law that is going to end those convictions that represent a Spain in black and white, the Spain of Columbus that wants to freeze our hearts again. With this law - and term - Spain will look more like Europe and will be freer. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u5	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u6	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, you do not intend with this proposal to guarantee or deepen the freedom of expression, what you intend to achieve is impunity for all those who want to attack the national symbols, the symbols of the autonomous communities and our institutions, for all those who want to attack the religious feelings of the Spaniards, for all those who want to advocate terrorism. [[Applauds]] This is what your bill seeks: impunity for all that! You seek impunity for Pablo Hasel, for the Valtònyc, for those who burn the national flag, for those who beat the anthem, for those who support ETA, GRAPO... Don't manipulate, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, don't manipulate. Freedom of expression is fully guaranteed in Spain. In fact, Spain is listed year after year in all the international classifications of the most advanced democratic systems, and that is the case, among other things, because freedom of expression is fully guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should baptize this bill and we should call it the Hasel reform, because this reform is intended to ensure that the Pablo Hasels of this country continue to act with complete freedom. In fact, you presented this bill precisely when the National Court decreed the entry into prison of Pablo Hasel in January of this year and when there were numerous violent demonstrations in several cities of Spain encouraged by you, encouraged because you call it Pablo Hasel's freedom of expression. What is it? I will remind you of what freedom of expression is for you. One example, I quote Hasel: 'I don't mind your shot in the back of the head, but. I'm sorry for the one who dies in a patera. I don't feel sorry for your shot in the back of the head, socialism.' Another: 'I prefer Graphs than pretty'. Another: 'My brother enters the PP headquarters screaming: Go ETA! They don't sell me the story of who the bad guys are, I'm just thinking about killing them.' And another famously sad and famous in reference to my countryman Patxi López: 'He deserves to blow up Patxi López's car!' And you, Mr. Asens, have just called this discrepancy. You say that convicted is criminalizing rapping behaviors and you say that the rise of terrorism - you say in your bill - is an alarming restriction of freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have so much enthusiasm for allowing terrorism to rise in Spain, what am I going to tell you about the enthusiasm you have so that it will be unpunished to attack our institutions, so that it will be unpunished to attack the national symbols, so that it will be unpunished to attack the religious feelings of the Spaniards? Mr Asens, you have been betrayed by the subconscious in your previous speech, because, when you spoke of that article of the Criminal Code that you want to eliminate, you referred to Catholics. He betrayed the subconscious. Why? For this article, like the others, protects all; in this case, the believers of all religions. Similarly, articles referring to national symbols and institutions protect all and also the symbols of the autonomous communities. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the nationalist parties - for example, of the PNV - do not manipulate their voters either. I guess they're willing to support this and don't tell their voters that this United Nations bill we can also give impunity to attack the autonomous symbols. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Asens, do not lie to the Spaniards when they say that these articles of the Criminal Code are not proper to an advanced democracy, as you have just said. Or is it that for you Germany is not an advanced democracy? Probably not, because for you the model of democracy is Communist Cuba or Chavista Venezuela; probably, Germany is not a model of advanced democracy. Well, do you know that the German Penal Code punishes Nazism with up to five years? Or does that sound like freedom of expression to you? Do you know that the federal president's insults are punished by between three months and five years? Or does that sound like freedom of speech to you? Up to five years for insulting State and Länder institutions, the flag and the anthem; from three to five years for insulting constitutional bodies. Or is it that, Mr. Asens and Ladies of the United Nations We can, you call this Francoist remorse? Because they just called our Penal Code Franco's remorse. Does it seem to you that Germany is a Francoist remorse? Are you going to tell the Germans that their democracy is not advanced? And the French? Because the French Penal Code, ladies and gentlemen, includes the advocacy of terrorism, which you want to repeal in Spain, and since 2003 the French Penal Code has introduced a new crime, which is the outrage against the flag and the national anthem, punishable by a fine and up to six months' imprisonment. You say that the Spanish Penal Code comes from the dictatorship. What is it, that France has also been inspired by the Franco dictatorship? We could continue all afternoon, but to remind you of what other advanced democracies do, I will only give you another example, that of Belgium. Do you know that the Belgian Penal Code includes a crime of negationism of Nazism? Or is it that to the United We can negationism of Nazism also seems freedom of expression? Ladies and gentlemen, you have so many problems in arguing this motion for a law because you do not seek to deepen freedom of expression, what you are pursuing is your objective already expressed publicly - and I quote your words - to end the regime of 78. Its shadow leader, Pablo Iglesias, already said it some time ago: Our goal is to initiate a constituent process to open the lock of 78 and be able to discuss everything. In this context you place this proposal of law to question the foundations of what you call the 78th Regime. And, as you do not pursue the deepening of freedom of expression, you fall into numerous contradictions. You have spoken, Mr.Asens, of what they call the Law gag; in fact, in your explanatory statement you dedicate some paragraphs to the Law gag. Good thing you didn't like it, Mr. Asens! Good thing they didn't like it! I lost count when they had already put more than a million fines with the Law gag. Punitive crusade just called you Mr. Asens. You say you are defending freedom of expression, but you have been questioning the freedom of protesters who want to protest against the government for months. In fact, during the states of alarm you banned several demonstrations that were later allowed by the higher courts of justice of several communities. But it is that you, Mr Asens, in your speech, when you referred specifically to demonstrations - in this case those of Columbus - have described them as hatred and rage. Is that for you the freedom of expression? Or do they just like freedom of expression to depend on what ideas? As for your contradictions, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, while you say that you want to decriminalize all these crimes of the Criminal Code, you do not assume the supposed spirit of this bill, and I give you one of the many examples. Do you remember when Pablo Iglesias, Irene Montero and Tania Sánchez filed a lawsuit - I don't know exactly who signed it, but filed a lawsuit - for a lamentable poem by a judge that you said attacked the honor of these people? You would call this judge an artist and, according to your words, Mr. Asens, that demand means to persecute an artist for his work of art. Well, you put forward a demand because, apparently, you do not apply to yourselves what you claim to defend in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, it is not surprising that you present this proposal for a law; it is within your ideas and it is within your political objectives: the political objective of allowing impunity in Spain for the attacks on our institutions and our national symbols and the rise of terrorism. What we are extremely concerned about is that today the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this bill. That's what we're worried about. You've already done it. The Socialist Parliamentary Group supported the consideration of a bill that was almost the same as it was presented here in October 2018. That fell, but they bring us back this bill and, according to what the Socialist Party itself announced in February, we fear that they will again support it. They announced it in February when the President of the Government said that freedom of expression should be extended in Spain, and that is going to be serious for our democracy, that the main party of the left and party of the Government will now be prepared here to support a law that will allow impunity in Spain to attack our institutions and our national symbols and to exalt terrorism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u8	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Uriarte, several things. First of all, I see that you - I do not know if you are a lawyer - do not distinguish between criminal and civil proceedings, because you are talking about a civil suit. We're not talking about this, we're talking about crimes, about criminal repression. I don't know if you realize the difference. On the advocacy of terrorism, do you believe that the Council of Europe is advocating terrorism? You think so? Because the Council of Europe is calling on us to change that crime. Or do you not read what the Council of Europe says? Or do you not read what the Court of Luxembourg and Strasbourg has said, which has repeatedly condemned Spain for violating human rights in convictions for this crime? [[Applauds]] The problem is that you are annoyed by this Europe of human rights, and that is why you are making this allegation here today. You have a frenometer or a very curious concept of offenses, the truth. It's a striking double standard yours. That there are former coup soldiers who say that they want to shoot twenty-six million Spaniards and that some in this House say that they are their own without anything happening seems normal to them. Instead, the clothes are torn, and his judicial arm considers it a very serious crime, when someone criticizes or insults the flag in a demonstration or says in a free and free abortion church. The truth is that it offends us precisely that, that justice is not the same for everyone, that it guarantees the impunity of torturers, of franchisors and, instead, pursues people like Cassandra who make jokes about them. You tell me about Germany. Can you imagine that this happened in Germany, that the Nazi jokes were pursued? Can you imagine that in Germany there was a foundation that would bear the name Adolf Hitler? For that happens in Spain and, above all, the General Council of the Judiciary, to which you have kidnapped, dares to say that that must be legal. [[applause]] We're offended by that. It offends us that as long as there are thousands of Republicans in the counties, there is a foundation that bears the name of your executioner, exalting that genocide, and that your judicial arm, which you kidnap, says that that's normal, that that's legal. The truth, as I tell you, has a very peculiar, very curious concept of offenses. I think the problem you have is that you do not like to exercise freedom of expression who believe you are on the wrong side of history. We saw it when you were ruling in that interior minister who emulated the founder of his party, Fraga Iribarne, when he said that on the street is mine. Mrs Uriarte, the difference between you and us is that while you would like us to be quiet and resigned - that is why you approved all these measures - we find it fantastic that you exercise your freedoms and that you were in Columbus this Sunday; we find it fantastic, the truth. The difference between you and us is that while you intend to get behind the Penal Code, we come here today to defend the right you have to criticize us, also with hatred and rage, because, Mrs Uriarte, thoughts, desires do not offend - it is another lesson of law -. You have said hatred and anger as if I were insinuating that it is illegal, and no, it is not illegal; you expressed it this Sunday, and you are in your right to do so. You know why? Because, as Rosa Luxembourg said, freedom is always the freedom of those who think differently. That is why I say to you that you do not believe in freedom of expression if you really believe that those who despise have no right to express themselves. And there's something else. When you talked about freedom of expression, I think you also confused it with the right to lie, and it's not the same. The right to lie affects the right to have truthful information and, therefore, the right of people to form an opinion and to express it; therefore, it affects the right of expression. I say that because you keep telling lies. Today they have said countless lies in their intervention. We have also seen it these days regarding pardons. They lie when they say that they are going to resort to pardons, whose motivation they do not know, and they know that they have no active legitimacy to do so. They lie when they say that the Government has no right to grant such pardons, and they know that it is a power of the Government, which had never been questioned before. They lie a lot these days, and when one keeps telling lies the concept of truth disappears, and that is indeed a danger to democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u9	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u10	Thank you, President. Mr Asens, the difference between you and us, but not just us, but the vast majority of the Spaniards, is that we respect our Constitution, our rule of law and our legal system. [[Applauds]] But I'm going beyond that. We defend all ideas and all discrepancies and beyond this. When we defend our Criminal Code we do it for all, for all and in relation to all, and not like you, who want to repeal some articles of the Criminal Code but to give impunity to those who support them and attack the institutions from that impunity that you want. Mr Asens, you have repeatedly reminded the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, but you have not recalled the fundamentals in this bill and in the response, the penal codes and the institutions of the rest of the advanced countries of Europe and the world. You know, as I have just reminded you, that these countries have articles very similar to Spanish, because they are advanced democracies, and in your reply you have not been able to give me any argument of the penal codes and constitutions of other countries, because you know that you cannot support this proposal of law in that comparison. Mr Asens, you talk about respect for other ideas and the difference between you and us, but do you know what the difference is in terms of respect for ideas and support for democratic systems and our fundamental principles? Among other things, we condemn in the same way all dictatorships and all totalitarianisms, as we have done in this House, the fascists, the Nazis and the communists. And what do you do over and over again? To justify part of these totalitarianisms, in this case communism, over and over again. [[Applauds]] You do here apologia of communism constantly. Mr Asens, and in this case also ladies and gentlemen of the whole bench on the left, I will remind you of other conducts that you want to be freedom of expression and total freedom in Spain. Valtònyc's, another of the references you mentioned in your bill Do you know what sentences Valtònyc, another artist, was convicted of, what would you say? Among other things, he wrote: "Be afraid as a civilian guard in Euskadi. Or he said, "Fucking cop, fucking monarchy." He also said: That a People's Party bus with charged nitroglycerin explodes. I quote one more of what you call freedom of expression, discrepancy, etc.: The king has a date in the village square, a rope around his neck and that the weight of the law falls to him. This is what you want to defend with this bill. To end this turn of reply, I again show our concern about what the Socialist Party is going to do, because, do you know what President Pedro Sánchez said when Valtònyc was condemned by these and numerous female members, for the apologia of terrorism, insults to the crown, etc.? For President Sánchez said the following: Bad taste cannot be punished with prison. Freedom of artistic expression is a right that also protects us collectively. And in the same as you just told us, Mr.Asens - you fully agree, Mr. Sánchez and you - he said that a rapper goes into prison is a very bad symptom about the state of our democracy. Look where, you and the socialists united in the defense of Pablo Hasel and Valtònyc and united in the idea that that, all that I have just read to you, is discrepancy, is healthy democratic debate and is freedom of expression. Tremendo, ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that more than changing the Criminal Code gave the impression that what they wanted to change was the judges. You are part of the government and you cannot go out here - you can go out, because you have done so - and question the justice system in Spain and say that the judges are at the service of a political party. They're part of the government! I do not know whether this government has a minister of justice, because we no longer know what it has, but obviously it would be no different if someone from the government defended justice in Spain. In the end, you come to tell us: freedom of expression. I can be quietly in a church and it seems phenomenal to you that someone comes to violate my religious feelings. But, in turn, it seems to you very bad that the third political party in Spain can go to a square to give a rally and you think you have to go to attack them for giving a rally in a public square. [[Applauds]] I mean, you can attack me with religious feelings, but, in turn, you ask me to attack a political party. Man, please, we all know each other! You have a communist mentality. It has become clear, because they set the example of the United States, of freedoms, and of the rest of Europe, but for this they do not set the example of Venezuela and Cuba, for this they have gone to the western part, to freedoms. [[Applauds]] What little has he talked about here about Venezuela and Cuba to talk about individual rights! That's why I don't want to talk. Because, of course, when it comes to flags, feelings, states have to defend their symbols, of course they do!, to be respected, of course! I am convinced that if, instead of being the flag we have today, someone burns the Republican flag, which you so much like, you send it to jail, because it has been shown that no one can tell you the opposite of what you think. [[Applauds]] Freedom of expression is only for you and for what is right for you. Do you think it's normal that you can laugh at a person you've killed a relative, that you can keep putting him at ETA's door, that you can keep insulting me and tell him that you deserve it, that you've earned it, etc.? Does it seem normal to you, and that society, as a society, does not protect that person? [[Applauds]] If we do not protect them as a society, we will have to protect ourselves, and the penal codes are to protect as a society those who are in weakness, and in this case the victims of terrorism are certainly in weakness, and more so with a government like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress; applause of the VOX parliamentary group, standing; applause of some ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u13	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u14	Thank you, President. With today's, there will be one hundred and twenty the nights that Paul Hasel wears in prison. Valtònyc has been in exile for more than three years, during which his mother was killed and could not even come to bury her. Our colleague Pau Juvillà, MP in the Parliament, faces a penalty of disqualification for maintaining yellow ties in an electoral period, in the same way that President Quim Torra was disqualified for maintaining a banner of solidarity with the prisoners. [[Applauds]] The Bureau of Congress has called us to order on several occasions for mention of the corruption of the Royal House and yet has never called to order the deputies of the extreme right who, for example, from here have tried to compare immigration with sexual offences or with crime in general. While all this is happening, last week the General Council of the Judiciary reported that the advocacy of Francoism falls within the freedom of expression. That is, to say that the Bourbons are a criminal organization, to say that there is no botafumeiro that can cover up the rottenness of the Royal House or to say that the monarchy is corrupt to the core can bring you problems with justice - these are real complaints -, however to promote the memory of the one who provoked a war, who bombed the civilian population, who protected the theft of babies, who promoted the physical elimination of political opponents and who was allied with Nazism, all this falls within the Spanish State's freedom of expression. I don't think there's anything more to be said about this. Or perhaps yes, simply a few words from Valtònyc for everyone to reflect on the depth of these crimes in the Criminal Code that is intended to eliminate: 'We are condemned for inciting violence and the only violence that has occurred, because of Pablo Hasel or Valtònyc, has provoked it by the State in its attempt to imprison them. Until the state has imprisoned us, there has been no violence. The same goes for the Crown. We are accused of insulting the Crown and the only one who has insulted the Crown has been the Crown itself. And the same goes for terrorism. They condemn us for humiliating the victims of terrorism and I do not find a more serious humiliation of the victims of terrorism than trivializing terrorism by posing as rappers as terrorists and saying that by making a song you can be the subject of an international arrest warrant for terrorism'. That's trivializing. Therefore, freedom Valtònyc and freedom Pablo Hasel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u15	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u16	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, Madam President. It is not new that we say that the Spanish penal system is one of the most severe in the European Union. And in everything that has to do with freedom of expression, more of the same. I was curious that Mrs Uriarte referred here to the rankings, to the fact that Spain is very well placed in the international rankings. Well, in a Freemuse ranking on convicted artists, the one with number one in convicted artists is not Iran, it's not Saudi Arabia, it's not Morocco, it's precisely Spain, and that should make us think. A Member State of the European Union which is regarded as a democracy of the most advanced in the world is, at the same time, the largest number of convicted artists. There may be a problem. Mrs Uriarte goes to a trap, which is to go to the worst articles of every European legislation and lie to them here, but she could have chosen so many more. By the way, with regard to the one he recalled of the apologia of Nazism, he reminded his fellow banker, who gave a diploma to the Spanish Nazis of the Blue Division, who did not come near Germany because he also fell five years in prison. By the way, he has not mentioned the totalitarianism of those who founded his party, the People's Party. By the way, do you know which mayors the Franco Foundation has awarded, which party are they from? From your party. What do you think? Is that okay with you? Because personally, as terrible as it may seem to me, I understand that you say what you say now or what you said forty years ago when you were a leftist militant and abertzale. If he said the same thing he was saying at the moment, just like a judge, because he was Basque, he would apply article 578 to him. Because there is the problem, and not because Mr Asens says it, that I agree with what he says, but because it is also said by the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, that there is a problem, that freedom of expression is being curtailed on the basis of that article, because it gives so much legal uncertainty that it allows a judge to interpret his free will. Look at another example. Yesterday I heard a spokesman for his party on Canal 24 hours, on television, say that he had never forgiven anyone who had not repented. I reminded Mr. Rafael Vera, a state terrorist and pardoned by his party, that he did not repent. Moreover, he exalted what was armed activity, terrorist activity, assassinations, state murders. He didn't put ballot boxes, he didn't call for freedom, democracy and voting; no. Murders on behalf of the State, and a judge determined that there was no rise in terrorism. What's going on? That if he becomes Basque, if he becomes Catalan, if he becomes a left-wing person, depending on which judge or judge he takes that case, in that legal uncertainty and in that free interpretation he might have determined that there was a crime. He said at the outset that Spain has one of the toughest criminal codes in Europe. It is already foreseen that the advocacy of terrorism can be condemned, and it is already provided in another article that the call or threat to commit crimes can be condemned. The problem lies precisely in article 578. The problem we were saying on the basis of freedom of expression was three-pronged. The first of them, as Mr Asens rightly said, comes from anachronistic, archaic articles, which do have an origin in Francoism, which protect the Head of State greatly. In this case, we are talking about a feudal monarchy, which is already very protected, which has this reinforcement, and to which citizens cannot criticize. Similarly, we see that Article 578 of exaltation, and not just because we say so, but because the international bodies and the Council of Europe itself are drawing attention to it. And, if that were not enough, we have the administrative repression in all that has to do with the so-called "Ley gagza", which leaves at the disposal of agents of authority, at their free will, when they must punish certain comments or certain actions, restricting freedom of expression and restricting freedom of opinion, which is why, also, international organizations and the United Nations itself have called for their speedy repeal. By the way, gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen of the Unidad Podemos, they are already slow to repeal. Look, I come from Euskal Herria and it is true that in these years we have known, on the basis of these spider operations, hundreds of Twitter users arrested, most of them left-wing, for that double measuring rod I said before. We have also seen that many artists have not only been arrested, even convicted, but that several of them have had to go into exile. They say that they equate it to Francoism, but the worrying thing is that in a state that has a democracy, people have to go into exile. It is much more serious that this happens in what is called a democracy that happens in a dictatorial regime, where Ça va de soi, where it is expected that this can happen. But not only, as we said, puppeteers, rappers, but even graphic artists. They will remember Mr. García Adanero and Mr. Sayas the case of Mr. Abel Azcona, who had to go to exile in order not to be arrested for his works. The corporal. We will vote in favour, of course. We will support everything that will give more rights and that freedom of expression cannot be restricted or persecuted. In addition, in the process of amendments, we will make contributions, because we also believe that insults against Congress should be removed from that list of crimes. In some cases it was better written in the previous proposal, that of 2018. That is why, as I say, we will support the proposal and make some amendments as a contribution. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor Mr. Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u18	Thank you very much, President. On 11 March, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mrs Mijatovic, called on the Spanish State to reform the Criminal Code in order to avoid convictions for the exercise of freedom of expression, to strengthen the existing guarantees of this right and to facilitate the work of the Spanish courts in decision-making, in full conformity with article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. [[The Lord]] This claim to the Spanish State to co-honest with the doctrine advocated by the Council of Europe when it claims that the criminal protection of the institutions must at all costs avoid limiting the critical freedom of citizens. In the same vein, the UN Human Rights Committee expresses its concern about the existence of crimes that protect flags, symbols and institutions against political and ideological criticism. This is also the position of the European Court of Human Rights, which, we recall, is accumulating sentences against Spain. The European Court of Human Rights maintains that, in a democratic society, in the face of the protection of the community through its institutions, freedom of expression must prevail, because it helps to shape political debate and free citizen participation. This prevalence, ladies and gentlemen, protects those who express ideas or opinions against institutions or beliefs, even when this criticism is produced unjustly, improperly, offensively or offensively. For in a democratic society - he continues to say - a spirit of tolerance must prevail, especially when it comes to criticism in political matters, even with symbolic expressions, such as the burning of portraits or flags. But, ladies and gentlemen, this prevalence of freedom of expression can in no way mean any protection to anyone who instigates violence efficiently, directly or indirectly. That is, what has been called the doctrine of the clear or imminent risk of causing materially violent and harmful behavior. But even in these cases of lawful repression, of these violent and harmful behaviours must be demanded a due proportionality both of the type of sanction - it is not the same a fine as a deprivation of liberty or to prevent the active or passive exercise of political rights - and of the amount of the sanction. And the prevalence, ladies and gentlemen, of the freedom of expression which must also be given up when, as stated in article 20 of the Constitution - moreover, it is common sense - other fundamental rights are being violated, especially the right to honour, privacy, self-image and the protection of young people and children. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party, which we are now discussing, confronts freedom of expression with different types of criminal law, proposing, as appropriate, either the reform or the abolition of these. All of them - to be said - have in common that they are grouped under the same protected legal good, which is the defence of the Constitution, of Title XXI of Book II of the Criminal Code, which protects collective legal goods. That is, not so much to an individual or individual in his or her honour, feelings or image, but to the whole of society in his or her collective legal assets, such as the Crown, State institutions and autonomous communities, avoiding offenses against Spain, terrorism, advocacy of terrorism, those committed by officials against constitutional guarantees, etc. In short - I am finalizing, President - the legislative initiative presented to us addresses one of the key issues in a democratic state and not free of edges. The Basque Parliamentary Group, the Basque Nationalist Party, as it has done during debates on this same issue in the past, will vote in favour of its consideration in order to encourage a calm debate and a technical legal examination in depth of both the proposals that are being made and of others that could come out in line with it, without this implying that we should align ourselves with the proposals and terms of the proposal. Similarly, as our group in the Senate has recently stated, we believe that taking this proposal into consideration should not involve its immediate processing, as it would be desirable to await the bill with all its record that the Government has publicly committed on this same issue to bring together both initiatives in a debate with all the elements of the trial before it. Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of these conditions, we will give our support to the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u19	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u20	Thank you, President. We will vote in favour of a proposal that will really promote freedom of expression, but this is not what you are looking for and I will prove it to you. Today's agenda shows that there is an organized operation to demolish Spain of 78 and promote Spain of the Hasel - by the way, that it is in prison to sing... A little before it hit and a little before it reacted; this man sings in the free times -. Well, a Spain of otegis, puig montes and other creatures of the totalitarian free show filo that surrounds us. [[Rumors]] This is thanks to a nasty relativist wave that allows you to suppress the facts and impose propaganda, turn the murders of ETA into collateral damage by an invented nation that you, Lords of Podemos, have embellished, and that the Transition must turn it into a bad dream and that it must be overcome. Coordinated with you will bring the nationalists today a proposal that comes to say little less than 23-F shows that Spain is Francoist; but then we will go with that proposal, that I have some surprise to you too. But, of course, to achieve these objectives you need to discredit the fruits of the Transition, because it is in the organs that the Constitution proposes, that you create the Constitution, in which you set your sights to insult, to slander freely both the organs and their members; and I remarry you because I do not know where the desire of the Spaniards to insult the army, the judges or the king is. Look, 1978 Spain is a model of success that wants to be overthrown by the revisionism that replaces the book by the platter, the truth by the story and the individual freedom by the guarded thought, which is the project you have. You, as your ideology has become empty, you have to make straw men to fight against, artificial problems, and this is one of them. Let's see what you want to do, what verbs you want to implement for people, institutions, public officials. You want to injure and, according to the RAE, injure is to impute to someone a fact or quality that undermines their reputation or esteem. Calumniar: Accusation of a crime made knowingly of its falsehood. I'll give you two examples in case it's not clear. To insult is to call a woman police - I open quotes -: 'you are cocaine, bad mother, daughter of whore, with everything that we have fought women, with you everything is lost. They don't even want you your own mates' - close quotes. This is insulting. Who said that? Isa Serra, from Podemos. Let us look at an example of slander, which is the charge of a crime. Pablo Echenique called a rapist a man who had been murdered and that the Supreme Court said he was innocent. Echenique's defense held that this is freedom of expression. He's lost his mind. I don't think so, this is not freedom of expression. Anyway, it's normal that we may want to change the law, but I propose you a home remedy; you have problems because you are a failure, wash your mouth, do not come here with proposals to try to control your internal problems. However, they want to be able to insult, but how does Podemos fall when they are the object of the insults? Because Mr. Asens said they're filing civil lawsuits. Pablo Iglesias filed a complaint against the alleged police officers of a chat for threats and insults. A civil complaint, Mr. Asens? Mr. Asens, don't give me any rolls. [[Applauds]] You do not want freedom, you want your freedom to suppress that of others. You do not ask for freedom of criticism, criticism often very harshly against the king, against the judges, against the army, against this House against the organs you want, it can be found permanently, it can be done and it seems to me very good that it is done, very harsh criticisms; but when someone from the royal delinque family goes to jail, and, by the way, it is not pardoned. You guys want something else. They say that in Spain religions cannot be criticized. Have you stepped on a movie theater? Have you ever been to a bookstore? Have you seen how many critical books, how many works, and how many critical works and works of art are there with all this, and that's okay with me? It's just that you can. It's a lie, you're raising a problem that doesn't exist. Look, I quote ideas that taught me one of the best socialist MPs who have sat on that bench, JoséAndrés Torres Mora: freedom is not that I can make my whim, but that no one can submit to his; freedom is not that someone can slander me, insult me or insult me when he wants to, but that no one can slander me, insult me or insult me when he wants to. End of date. Because in his model the freedom of the slandered and insulted will be rolled over to give way to their libel. And finally, and most outrageously, they state in their statement of reasons that the crime of heightening terrorism can be eliminated because ETA no longer exists. That is, there are mutilated people, orphans, women and men who have been widowed, who have to see how they pay homage to the mutilators, to whom they have been mutilated, to the murderers of their parents, to the murderers of their children, to the murderers of their husbands or their wives, because Podemos likes it. You argue that the crime of the rise of terrorism can be removed with the main argument that ETA no longer exists, but at the same time a proposal for a law which proposes to criminalize the rise of Francoism is being processed here. I mean, you can exalt ETA because ETA no longer exists, but you can't exalt Franco because... have I missed something, gentlemen of Podemos? You, when you get out of here, from Congress, you think you see Franco in the eye? Do you, when you put a circle of these Podemos, see Franco among the public? [[Rumors]] What's more, now that I'm addressing you, does anyone listen to a voice that says next door: "Shut up! Red!Is that what you're talking about? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You don't need a law, you need it, if all this happens to you, it's an exorcism. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u21	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG considers it absolutely necessary to make progress in ensuring the effective exercise of the right to freedom of expression and, therefore, to amend a Penal Code which in different articles restricts its exercise with the aim, inter alia, of defending anachronistic institutions, such as the monarchy. It is absolutely necessary, because a State in which people exist in prison for exercising freedom of expression cannot be considered a truly democratic State, as can not be a regime that keeps political prisoners and exiles for defending a basic democratic right of nations, such as the right of self-determination, and for exercising it by placing ballot boxes. Go from here, therefore, all the support of the BNG to the claim of amnesty and freedom for all and independentists imprisoned and prosecuted. It is good to decriminalize the criticisms of the Crown, it seems to us an important advance, but it is no less true that this debate reminds us that what is really important, what really needs to be done, is to eliminate the corrupt Bourbons from political life, because the monarchy is incompatible with a truly democratic system and because progress in rights and freedoms requires processes of rupture that open way for new sovereign republics in our peoples. The BNG is going to vote in favour of this bill, but we would also like to recall that it is still in force, despite its Government's commitment to repeal, the law on flogging, which is equally harmful to the defence of social rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u23	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I start with two dates. The first: 'Censorship does not eliminate the struggle between truth and lies, it only turns the struggle of principles into a struggle between principles without power and power without principles'. This is from Carlos Marx in La Gaceta Renana of 1842. One that will solve them less around here, on the right: 'Censorship must come from society itself, never from power'. This is from a gentleman who took pictures last Sunday in Columbus. It is by Mario Vargas Llosa, in the ABC cultural supplement, in 2018. Those who oppose this bill should support it not because we agree on values, not because we agree on content, not even because we agree on what ideas are disgusting or on what ideas are not disgusting, they should support it by a minimum agreement that is based simply on the idea that any idea can be defended without fear of being persecuted for it, however disgusting it may seem to us, simply and plainly because thought does not offend. Because the opposite places us in a very dangerous terrain, which is where we set the limit. Where do we set the limit? In what it offends each one of you? That limit is extremely dangerous, it is a slide that can only end badly and that brings us to very absurd situations and those that you mentioned none has to do with threats, none has to do with incitement to violence. Three very simple examples: March 8, 2013, in Malaga, a feminist group is condemned for offending religious feelings for having pulled out the figure of a vagina in procession. Year 2015, a Catalan citizen is condemned for putting on Facebook a poster with the anthem and the king of Spain in the final of the King's Cup. The pitade, of course, happens, but this citizen is condemned for insulting the Crown and insulting Spain. Year 2016, tweeter Cassandra, twenty years old, is convicted of thirteen tweets in which she makes jokes about Carrero Blanco and his death - Carrero Blanco, the president of the government during the Franco dictatorship -. She was sentenced to one year in prison, but the National Court said that her tweets showed disrespect and that her tweets were contempt. Tweets like - I hope not delinquent with this - 'Spiderman versus Carrero Blanco', in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know here that if these tweets are a crime then half of Twitter actually has to be in jail. I hope you agree with me that this has neither feet nor head. The ideas - I finish now - are not strong when they are supported by prohibition, they are strong when they are supported by arguments. You are disgusted by some ideas, I am disgusted by others, in which we are not going to agree, let us simply agree that ideas are fought exclusively with ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u26	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Díaz, I remind you that the mouths of the policemen who were threatening Mr. Churches were not exercising freedom of expression, were threatening. Nor is it freedom of expression to prevent the freedom of others, as when you - from the People's Party, from the People's Party, from the whole right and the far right - start tearing up yellow bonds or stellar flags in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, at the origin of every democratic society we find the primary right to protest peacefully against what you do not like. Dissent, dissent is the germ of ideological freedom, of a free political opinion. According to Roberto Gargarella, the right to protest must lead citizens to express themselves peacefully against the public power without it being taken as a threat, disorder or a criminal challenge. The European Court of Human Rights, in its classic doctrine from the 1990s until now, affirms that political pluralism is strongly linked to the right to freedom of expression, of which the right to assembly and the right to demonstration are guarantees. Without an authentic public debate, without being able to criticize those who hold power, either transiently or those who pretend to hold it for centuries, be it the Church, the King or the Civil Guard, there is no democracy. These rights must be specially protected by the legislator; they must enjoy a wide space free of coercion, without any narrowness. This was the thesis of the Constitutional Court in the years two thousand. All this is constitutional doctrine of good, not what the discredited Spanish Constitutional Court has been doing lately. We believe that these should be the higher values of the legal system, not the unity of Spain, according to Mr Lesmes, or other principles that do not come to the fore. The unacceptable extension of the crimes of religious defamation, the crimes of insults, the indiscriminate application of hate crimes and the exaltation of terrorism, the persecution of tweeters, filmmakers, actors, puppeteers and rapists has led to a few setbacks in Europe for Spain. From here, a hug to friend Josep Arenas, Valtònyc, free in Europe, persecuted in the Spanish judicial autarchy. One of the most important setbacks received recently is the letter from Mrs Dunja Mijatovic to Mr Campo, Minister of the Government of Spain. In short, this State, this country, needs to live up to the human rights management required by Europe, which demands the basic principles of liberal democracy. Just this, meeting the basic principles of democracy, meeting the demands...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u27	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u28	Thank you, President. Good afternoon in the deputies and deputies. A few months ago, in November last year, our group brought to this House a proposal for a law precisely to decriminalize the crime of insulting the Crown and insulting Spain. As you will recall, it did not obtain sufficient support and its consideration was rejected with the votes of the extreme right, the extreme right and the PSOE. Today, the United Nations We can bring us this initiative to which, of course, we will support. But we are surprised that such an important issue does not come from the Government as a whole. We hope that the Socialist Party will support it on this occasion, correcting its vote against our proposed law which came to say basically the same thing. In Europe and in all the States of the European Union, the right to freedom of expression is a fundamental, indispensable and inherent right in any democratic society, collected together with the rest of the essential rights of individuals. In the Spanish State, the right to freedom of expression is enshrined in article 20.1 of the Constitution. This fundamental right is defined as the right to freely express and disseminate thoughts, ideas and opinions through word, writing or any other means of reproduction. But, as a result of the process of European integration, the Constitution is not above all, it does not crown the normative pyramid. European and Community legislation, which enjoys primacy over the legal system of the Member States, also in Spanish, upholds and recognises as fundamental the right to freedom of expression, both in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and in Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, prohibiting interference with it which may distort its content. As stated in the European Convention, ratified by Spain in 1979, an advanced and modern democracy must ensure and guarantee to its citizens the full exercise of the right to freedom of expression, as it is one of the basic pillars of the right to citizens' participation in public affairs, which, for us, the Republicans, is essential. The Council of Europe's very own Human Rights Commission has asked the Spanish State to introduce legal changes on the insults to the Crown and also defamation and insults to religious sentiments by considering that the criminal repression of these conduct does not - in the words of the convention - respond to the necessary measures in a democratic society because they generate a deterrent effect and hinder the democratic debate that must be plural. Let us not be fooled, the current crimes of insulting the Crown and insulting Spain have only one objective: the persecution of political dissent, which questions the regime of 78 and calls into question the privileges of those who hold them. The Spanish State restricts rights and freedoms to the coup d'état of the Criminal Code, which is actively applied against the media, journalists, tweeters and protestors. This is the reality, day by day in this low-intensity low-cost democracy. For this reason Spain has already received several convictions from the European Court of Human Rights, just remember at this moment the sentence - which we have already recalled many times - to the Spanish State of 2011 in the case of Otegi or in the year 2018 in the case of Stern Taulats and Roura Capellera. In the same vein, Amnesty International has repeatedly expressed its view that heads of State for being public figures should tolerate more criticism than citizens. In the fight against racial discrimination, Amnesty International also recalls that a comprehensive response from the authorities is still pending, as the United Nations rapporteur has pointed out. According to the rapporteur, Spain also does not have a strong anti-discrimination legislation that reflects the commitment of international obligations, and it is that international law expressly requires States to prohibit advocacy in addition to national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence, which is known as hate speech. In spite of this, it seems that the Spanish State is alien to all this Community law and is also alien to international treaties, which, I repeat, are binding. Without going any further - and I see that no one has shown it this afternoon in this rostrum - we have all been aware of the most reprehensible statements of the plenary of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has defended the crime of exaltation of the Franco dictatorship by relying on freedom of expression, an absolute perversion of the conceptualization of this right. It considers - and I quote it textually - that the apologia of Francoism constitutes the expression of ideas, which, although contrary to constitutional values, are protected by freedom of expression and that the right of demonstration cannot be subjected to controls of political opportunity or to trials. Oh, my God! In the Spanish State, hatred can be incited, Francoism can be exalted, but demonstrations can't be made demanding democratic law, such as the vote in a referendum on the future of a country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I understand that it is not normal for a person like Jordi Cuixart, president of Omnium Cultural, to be sentenced to nine years in prison precisely for defending that freedom of expression and demonstration. This initiative is a good start and we hope that it will be dealt with quickly, but it remains half way because, as usual, nothing is said, for example, of the crimes of rebellion and sedition or of the law bites even though we are in a political situation with more than 3000 reprisals for the general cause against independence to which the State must resolve. Our proposal already knows: amnesty and self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u29	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Sánchez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u30	Freedom of expression; we've been talking about freedom of expression all afternoon. Look, Mr. Asens, this has nothing to do with what you say, this has to do with what you do, what you say you're going to do, and what you do next - you and your partners and friends. You, right now, what you want is to protect yourself from your barbarities. No, I'm sorry, in your barbarity, breaking up the Penal Code. Firstly, if this were a quiet debate, we could talk about the desire for absolute freedom. I have the desire for absolute freedom, of course; even yours. But we could confront it with the fact that there are true savages in what is said and in what is done, what is important. I will go over the legal side, which I think we have talked about and we will have time here if your partners approve of going ahead with this process; the problem is that this is not a legal proposal, this is a political operation to move from what they say to action, to more action. In the end, if I had a quieter debate, I'd say this is like traffic. Does everyone have the right to go anywhere? Of course. The problem is that there are kamikazes. There are some who, instead of respecting others, put themselves in the opposite direction and put us all at risk, and that is what you do. There's kamikazes here. [[Applauds]] You don't stop mixing what you say with what you do. You are the ones who harass people for publicly expressing their religion.Of course, this is very easy when you know that others have to put the other cheek, precisely because of that religion. [[shows a photo]] It is you who enter the chapels shouting: You will burn as in 36. Precisely you here claim that regime, which burned down churches and convents. Then we'll talk about it. [[Applauds]] They are usually their expressions; this is their freedom of expression, in this case of their partners. Look, independentists, the next time we get one of these in Catalonia, at least it's Iberian. [[the speaker shows a newspaper clipping, which says: They throw a pig head at a VOX news tent]] I'm from Badajoz and I could teach them how to make a good bash; really, it's a shame to throw the food in times of scarcity. On the other hand, you, gentlemen of the PSOE, of the United Left, local friends, do these things, you go out with guillotines to the street I do not mind the Republican flag, you have the flags you want, but I do mind that you not only say that this is the application of what needs to be done to the Royal House, but even now the ministers say, for example: Our cuts come and will be with guillotines. [[showing another photo]] Or say, Philip, thou shalt not be king, and all the Bourbons to the sharks. This is what you not only say, but do. That's right, when they don't erase everything, right, Echenique? He'll tell us why he erases. [[Applauds]] Look at you, we don't burn a single official flag; we don't recreate and get excited when you kick a cop; we don't kick cops, as your employees, gentlemen of Podemos, do in the demonstrations or in the meetings of BOX, and, above all, we also have to endure that in this room there are some, disguised as deputies, police kickers. And we also have to endure the presence of those who in their day, for the sake of freedom of expression and shielding themselves from saying that they were the media, were the ones who did the dirty work to the ETA pointing to those who were going to be their victims. [[Applauds]] Let's see what you want. You want to be able to offend people for their religion to point them out; you want to offend the Crown to destroy it; you want to offend institutions to kick them out, and you want to burn symbols of Spain to burn Spain. We're clear. The problem is, why do you need this now? What barbarities have they prepared? Because I have already shown you that you did all kinds of things before this 'liberation'. This is ironic because you are also those of inclusive language, the things you can't say,'say''sweet' or 'dance'. You're the ones who tell us all day what we can't say. And now you go from paladins to, yes, what you would like to say. In the end, this debate is always about you because it is you who want to tell others what we have to say or what we don't have to say. It is you who bring words to deeds; words to stones. A priest told me recently: you can allow him to blaspheme himself with impunity at that meeting of cynics in which you have converted Congress, but remember that our work has repercussions for eternity. Well, it's his profession, he's a priest, he's worried about eternity. I, as a Member, am concerned not only with what you say, but with what you do in this life, with what you want to tell us and, above all, with what you want to do to us; especially because you have partners who are very used to sending people to eternal life. This would be painful if it weren't for the end of this series of love and luxury in which you are; you know, the last season we're always going to the biggest scandal, especially when the audience comes down, which is what's happening to you. You limit us to others, but you do not limit yourselves. You always ask for respect for your new creeds, your new religions, your new invented flags; others we have to shut up. The ironic thing is that in your proposal you say that the origin of all this regulation is frank. Here are the 1932 Penal Code, signed by an Alcalá-Zamora. [[showing a document]] Article 235: who publicly mocked any of the dogmas or ceremonies of any religion, publicly profane images, sacred vessels or any other objects intended for worship. Article 149: Any person who insults or threatens the head of State shall be liable to a higher penalty of imprisonment. Franchise menus! You, in the years 1932, 1933 and 1934 would have gone to jail for doing what you do. [[Applauds]] Moreover, you ask - this is the most terrible thing - to punish the officials by amending articles 536 bis and 538, while leaving - that is - free to your private censors, those of the T-shirts of The Sixth, of Newtral, those who have to tell us what we cannot say on networks. You can and say what you want, and above all you can put it on the rocks and throw them, but we can't answer. I could answer; I could go here and, if we were already in that app, take this Republican flag and sound to me the mucos, which I'm not going to do because we're not the same as you. [[showing a photo]] [[Applauds]] I'm on my way. I return to the simile of traffic: we must ensure that everyone can move wherever he wants, but we will have to put - if this were civilized we would not need, but there are real kamikazes - lines on the ground or'leave those that are already, which, by the way, do not hit us but at least remind us all where the line is. We know what they want; we know what they do; we know what they say. Control them a little bit in what they say, say it another way, have a little bit more grace; but while they are not controlled, there is the Penal Code. And above all, remember that as much as you want or say some things... [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand, saying: Freedom, freedom!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u31	Thank you so much. Your time is up, Mr. Sánchez del Real. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Elorza González has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u32	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that something has been mentioned here, but the Socialist Group and also the Government want to make it clear: that there is an important set of recommendations - the last are for the years 2018, 2019 and even 2020 - both of the United Nations Human Rights Council and of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as rulings of the Constitutional Court... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u33	One second, Mr. Elorza. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u34	..., I say this for providing objective data, which invite Spain, in this case its Government and the Legislative Chamber, to revise the Criminal Code, to analyse those aspects of the Criminal Code, in this case related to freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, which have become outdated, which are not defined according to the times because the current reality has changed, has changed the feeling of public opinion on certain offences and offences. Therefore, there is an important requirement that we must meet. It is not a matter of desire; it is not a question of considering a revision of the Penal Code from a tremendous or immobile attitude, nor forgetting that we are talking about issues that require special sensitivity, that require great caution, that require taking due account of the legal doctrine, that require expansion of consensus. It would be a barbarity, indeed - and today we are demonstrating it - to face a reform of the Criminal Code from exclusively trembling, emerging or partisan positions. And this is what is being heard here when it comes to adapting that Penal Code to a reality that has changed, because it is true that there are concepts in the Penal Code that do not correspond to the times, there are penalties of deprivation of liberty that should not exist for offences of opinion or expression; there are excessive penalties. But it is also true that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would not - and is not in fact - agree with some of the derogations, modifications, let's say, very substantial that the proponent, United We can, in this proposal of organic law; we talk about speech of hatred, we are talking about the exaltation of terrorism, humiliation of the victims of terrorism, insults to the Crown and other institutions, mocking religious confessions or outrage to Spain and to symbols. Therefore, an elementary sensitivity, a sense of prudence, an assessment of legal doctrine are important issues. And why do we have to address this revision of the Criminal Code? Because the Constitution itself asks us to do so. In the preamble there is a very correct expression that reminds us that the will of the Constitution must be to establish an advanced democratic society, and if we are advancing in rights and want to advance also in freedoms, one of those freedoms, freedom of opinion and expression, must move forward with new formulations. Of course, we move forward to say that it is not a question of depriving anyone, that it is not a question of giving impunity to anything, that the institutions, people, the honour of people, the symbols, already have their general defence framework and, therefore, that there will be no defence and no protection, what there will be, and it was announced in fact by the Government a few months ago when it announced its willingness to address a reform of the Criminal Code, is a characterization of crimes with proportionality, taking into account the reality of the risk that certain crimes of expression may mean with regard to the elevation or, rather, to the impulse, the promotion of acts of violence, in what may mean those expressions of attack on State security, or public order, or free coexistence. In that case, it is necessary to measure these real risks, the risks of possible seriousness of the proceedings, so that the penalties - many of them would have to be civil, administrative, fines, not jail sentences in some cases - have this proportionality character and achieve a balance between the freedom and security of society as a whole. Therefore, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is ready for this revision of the Criminal Code, like the Government, and that is why it is going to support the consideration of this United Nations proposal. We can make contributions, either from the group or, if necessary - I hope it will arrive in time - the Government's overall proposal to fundamentally address the debate on this reform of the Criminal Code from three premises. First, seek consensus. We must try, and today I ask the People's Party and its spokesman, in this case Edurne Uriarte, to go with another more constructive spirit to participate in this debate in order to reach agreements, consensus for the reform of the Criminal Code. It is very important that the left - we are a part of the left - lead the progressive forces in the reform of the Criminal Code, but it is even more important that this Criminal Code gives rise to a great consensus of democratic parties in this House. Secondly, there should be a dialogue with society. The amendment of a penal code of around ten or twelve articles, as intended, of this entity, in these matters, requires a dialogue with society, a listening and a lot of pedagogy of the final outcome of this parliamentary debate when it occurs. And, thirdly, as I have said repeatedly, to address the jurisprudence, legal doctrine and recommendations of international bodies. That is the readiness for dialogue and consensus of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government, which in part also represents. That is the will to strengthen Spanish democracy and to make progress on rights - examples are left in this House of new rights recently adopted here - and on freedoms, such as freedom of opinion and freedom of expression, which we all know urgently needs an analysis and revision of the Criminal Code. This is what this Socialist Parliamentary Group is inviting you to do with its best. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u35	Thank you so much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AN ORGANIZATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE PROTECTION OF VICTIM ORIGINAL PERSONS OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/000146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u36	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic body for improving the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u37	Thank you, President. There is no other way in which this intervention can be initiated that is not routinely condemned by the macho violence that is cruelly beating this country. [[Applauds]] My commitment and my affection on behalf of the Socialist Group for the families and friendships of murdered women and girls. There are 1097 women killed since 2007. It's Alicia, 35, murdered in Jaén; it's Rocío Raíz, 17, murdered in Seville; it's Katherine, 58, murdered in Madrid; it's Alla, 48, murdered in Girona and they're Olivia and Anna. Beatrice, we're with you and all the relatives of the murdered women and minors! [[Applauds]] We accompany you in your immense motherly pain and we pledge not to stop in this struggle, which is that of this parliamentary group, is that of this government. [[The applause continues]] It is true that we have done much as a society and as a legislative power. The 2004 Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence has received numerous recognitions at the national and international levels and we have a pact of State reached, not without effort, thanks to the commitment of the feminist movement and also of this group, which worked to consolidate and achieve a high consensus. We endowed it and started its development already with Pedro Sánchez in the Presidency of the Government. It is a political, institutional, social pact that needs now that we start working for its renewal; it is absolutely essential to do so in this context of violence. As I said, it is true that in this country we have done a lot of legislative work to combat gender-based violence, but we have to do more, much more, as a legislature and as a society. We are all responsible to the extent of our competences where we are; we can always do something more to combat the machismo that is embedded in our society, which is the essence, which is at the root of the murders that we have to regret. It is the responsibility of the whole country to stop the foot to machismo; it is necessary the complicity of men and women, because no society changes if we only do it by women. Our country needs men also to be active agents in building a more feminist society. We need that vast majority of men saying that this model of masculinity does not represent them; it is more, that it disgusts them. [[Applauds]] It is absolutely necessary and urgent. And this struggle is also the responsibility of the media, which are privileged speakers and create opinion and tendency. They are key to breaking stereotypes, myths and must be the window through which that phone number arrives to ask for help; they must be allies against this terrorism that kills a woman every five days. This struggle is also the responsibility of the judiciary, which has an obligation to ensure the rights of the victims, to protect them, to listen to them. We will never tire of saying that an abuser can never be a good father. It is the responsibility of the security forces, who have an obligation to protect them and who know well that they are in that performance by improving daily care and protection mechanisms. And, of course, it is our responsibility, of each and every one of the representative forces of citizenship, of each and every one of us who occupies a seat in this Chamber. From this rostrum has been said on too many occasions unmeasured barbarities, absolute follies, which, even being so and precisely for this reason, strengthen in their convictions those who do not want to see that we live in a patriarchal society based on relations of domination of men over women, those who want to maintain their privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain one rape is reported every five hours, there are almost four hundred complaints every day about degenerate violence; four hundred every day. I honestly wonder: can you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, who deny gender-based violence sleep peacefully and calmly? Can you really sleep? [[Applauds]] It is their machismo that speaks when in the Plenary Last Thursday, without going any further, they interrupt the third vice president, Yolanda Díaz, and it is their machismo that speaks also when they interrupt any woman in any space, but especially in this rostrum. Today we advocate a proposal for a law that is born out of the will and work of an association, Women's Foundation, whose task is worthy of any admiration. She appeared to her director, Marisa Soleto, a month ago in parliamentary office and received totally unfair vapulae, the accusations of the ultra right, of those who often accuse others of what only from their ranks show. By the way, greetings to Marisa Soleto and the other representatives of the Women's Foundation who are following us live from a conference room and thank you very much, because organizations like the Women's Foundation make this country better every day. [[applause]] Thank you for making the difficult existence of many women who suffer gender-based violence and that of their sons and daughters more manageable, many of whom have been orphaned in the most cruel way anyone can imagine. It is precisely to them that this proposal for a law is addressed. The Soledad Cazorla scholarship fund, which manages the Women's Foundation, is one of the expressions of that commendable task. It bears the name of the first prosecutor of the Chamber of Gender Violence for a decade, died prematurely. Her husband, Joaquín García Taboada, accompanies us today and is sure to feel, like his son Joaquín, very proud of his legacy. Thank you for being there and for the task that you carry out along with the foundation and from it. [[Applauds]] In 2019, we adopted, at the initiative of this parliamentary group, the Law on Improvement of the Orphanhood Situation, which improved the amount and conditions of access to pensions for orphans of gender-based violence. We know that some aspects of this law are improveable, especially with regard to its implementation, and we will probably have the opportunity to deal with them during the processing of this bill. Two years ago the adoption of this law was a milestone because it allows for the dignity of pensions and because it came to comply with one of the measures of the State Covenant against Gender Violence, whose axis around the protection of minors is one of the essential ones. There's a fact that's important and that we don't talk about enough. Behind many of the macho murders there is a flood of orphans and orphans, of boys and girls to whom the killer takes his mother in a traumatic way. More than 500 people, including more than 300 minors, have faced this difficult situation in the past eight years since 2013, when they are already being accounted for, and many more, of course, before that date. The spirit that supports the proposed law that we present today is the same as that of the law of 2019: to improve the life of these orphans as far as possible, to ensure that their life is not more difficult than it is already because it is complicated fiscal obstacles and procedures regarding procedures that from the Legislature, from here, we can facilitate, and we will do it, of course we will do it. Article 1 amends the Organic Law of the Judiciary; article 2 amends the Civil Prosecution Act, and there are also two proposals for tax reform, the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, which we know as capital gains, and the tax on onerous property transfers and documented legal acts. In short, we want to eliminate the obstacles these orphaned people encounter to assert their rights. We want to avoid repeated cases such as that of the sisters Calderón Pérez of Seville, daughters of Maria del Águila, murdered by her husband. These young people have not yet been able to take possession of the property they are given as compensation because they cannot face the taxes to which they are subject. On the other hand, amounts that are satisfied in money if they are exempt. We want to avoid other cases, such as that of Joshua Alonso, who in 2017 had to face a terrible bureaucratic odyssey after the murder of his mother, Sesé, in Redondela, Vigo. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is committed to the fight against gender-based violence. It is, in fact, our priority. They keep killing us from the most recalcitrant machismo and they do it to the echo of the negatist slogans of the ultra right. [[Applauds]] There is an urgent need for collective reflection to end those speeches that manipulate public opinion and place women who report violence under suspicion. These are speeches that, as Judge Lucia Avilés says, manipulate, distort, use misconceptions as opportunists and - I add - discourage complaints and weaken victims because they stand on the side of abusers. Look, placing yourself several metres away from the banner that condemns the Machist murders, as Congressman Ortega Smith does, is not worth supporting the victims; quite the contrary, it portrays that tolerance with the violent ones that encourages them to continue. Yes, gentlemen of VOX, in the face of violence against women there is no false midpoint to be placed on. If victims are not supported, they are collaborating with the abuser. [[Applauds]] That is why I ask the House, the whole House, to support this initiative, this proposal for a law, which is, without any cracks, next to those who suffer the most terrible consequences of gender-based violence. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u38	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, first of all, to the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. This proposal for an organic law addresses a matter that addresses the inexcusable commitment of society to orphans, that is to say, to children who, in a very cruel and adventurous way, enter fully into the spiral of the vulnerability behind the murder of their mother or father and need, both they and their guardians, to help in the face of impoverishment, exclusion and the risks that accompany their great family tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President of the Commission has recalled with emotion at the beginning of this session, Spain is experiencing a period of dismay as a consequence of the horrendous crimes that have occurred on these last dates, one of which, elasinated from the young Rocío Caía, has left an orphan of a few months of age, the seventh in 2021. Different figures have already been cited that statistically reflect the irrational cruelty of violence that, since 2003, when the data were officially accounted for, has left in the order of three hundred orphans. Indeed, the cruelty resulting from these situations obliges us to improve the protection mechanisms for minors, who remain in a serious situation of vulnerability and who therefore need social assistance and need such support immediately and continuously, both in order to cover their health care and their economic dependence and also to provide them with educational, training and university resources, as well as to make them beneficiaries - to them and to those who assume their parental authority, guardianship or care - including themselves in the preferential sector for housing assistance schemes, both State and autonomous. We are talking about broken lives, which require very individualized attention, not as members of a group of victims, but as defenceless people who should not be treated as a pack, but with very specific and personalized measures. In this matter we are going to tow events that, so once again we have seen and heard these last days and a moment ago, are being used politically. This is the case of the very President of the Government, with his veiled accusations against the opposition made last Friday about what he considers today trivialization of the specific laws and instruments to combat the scourge of gender violence and its variable known as vicarious violence. I, of course, rejected such an accusation, but that the measures are insufficient show that certain difficulties in accessing the orphan's pensions provided for in Law 3/2019, as has been pointed out by different entities and individuals. Furthermore, the development of axis 4 of the State Pact against Gender Violence and its sixteen measures aimed at improving the assistance, protection and accompaniment of the children and daughters of the victims, as well as measures aimed at preventing gender-based violence among young people and adolescents, present a balance sheet whose essential improvement depends on the agility in the updating of our legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, such a prolific and creative executive with the figure of the royal decree-law, even tore the Constitution, has not found an opportunity to address this priority issue. In fact, that we are here this afternoon debating at the request of the majority group of the House this step towards new legislative amendments is the most notorious proof that in our most recent legislation there had been gaps in the guarantee of protection. For example, it is worth recalling that in March 2017 the Socialist Group was also the promoter of a legislative extension related to orphan pensions for gender-based violence, from which they introduced amendments to the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, all because of the shortcomings resulting from the Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender-based Violence, a comprehensive law adopted in 2004. Another much more recent example, after the entry into force of Law 3/2019, was to realize that the requirement of absolute assimilable orphanhood was not contemplated in some cases, such as the non-concurrence of the homicide with the father of the child. There is also a case that the parent cannot assume the maintenance of minors or other circumstances that, because he or she is unable to care for them, result in the orphan being unprotected. All this was very rightly warned last year, and by unanimity of all political groups, by the Parliament of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, demanding from the Government of the State an active dissemination of the assistance of resources and access to the collection of pensions equivalent to orphanhood in the event of the murder of her mother, regardless of whether she was a contributor or not. The Ombudsman, in his separate part of the 2019 annual report, dedicated especially to children and adolescents, also echoed the complaints made by various associations of separated parents and private citizens, which exposed him to the discriminatory treatment resulting from the new regulation, since referring only to gender-based violence did not include benefits or aid for orphans in the same situation when the father died at the hands of the child's mother. And what does the government of Pedro Sánchez respond to such justified institutional warnings or complaints from other parliamentary areas? For the Government parapets in the bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, dry-wood bureaucracy to entangle the agility in the response that children victims of the tragedy need. Today, the Government requires measures that require the intervention of a highly specialized interpreter's firm to understand what they mean in order to reach the proper administrative door. It is not understood by those who have some expertise in deciphering administrative circles, and even less understood by families whose precariousness is intended to alleviate, but it is that, in addition to bureaucracy, the Government also paralyzes itself in democratic irreverence. In this proposal for a law, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you propose additions to the Judicial Power Act and amendments to the Civil Prosecution Act concerning the attribution of powers with regard to the liquidation procedure, either to the Trial Chamber or to courts of violence against women. How do you reconcile all this with a minister of equality who sulfates our justice system and openly disqualifies it? By the way, Mrs Guinart, the same minister whose group - you did not say so - abstained here in the adoption of the State Pact against Gender Violence. The current minister was then a signatory to an amendment to the whole which, fortunately, was able to try. In any case, and despite the Government, Mr President, the proposal for a law is an opportunity to take more and better steps in favour of orphans and I will therefore vote in favour of its consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Get out of the way. I will share with you something that is not new, that we repeat over and over again. A total of 525 orphans in eight and a half years - 300 minors and 215 children over the age of eighteen - have been orphaned as a result of crimes of macho violence and many more have experienced the direct and indirect consequences of this violence. The proposal for a law that is currently under discussion is based on parameters of justice, and we consider it acceptable and necessary. We share, like the feminist movement, that the daughters and children of women who suffer from extreme sexist violence are victims and that they must be provided with legal, economic and social tools for justice and reparation. We will not forget that the fact that today we are referring in this Chamber to them and to them as victims is thanks to the titanic struggle of the feminist movement for years and state and autonomous international regulations so that children have their place as victims also of macho violence. Step by step steps have been taken to improve the care needed by women victims of violence. The inclusion of the sons and daughters of these women as direct victims of gender-based violence is a much slower path and care processes have not yet been adapted to meet all the needs of these children. It is clear that further progress is needed and this law, like the recently adopted Children's Act, is in line with this. Bearing in mind that the situation of gender-based violence has an impact on the comprehensive development of boys and girls, administrations should do their utmost to protect children who have experienced these situations and provide them with specific attention by taking positive measures to support recovery while avoiding stigmatizing them because of the violence they have been subjected to. Everything that implies improvement in the face of childhood our group will support it, as in this case favoring the transfer of inheritance to the daughters and children who are victims of the violence. But we want to take this opportunity to denounce once again the situation of extreme macho violence that we have been experiencing over the past few weeks; chilling, unacceptable attacks and deaths that put us before the worrying mirror of everything that remains to be done. It has been confirmed what the experts on the subject predicted during the state of alarm. If during the confinement this crude reality remained in the shadow of the private and since there was greater control on the part of the male abusers towards what they considered their women - the expression was not so extreme, though bloody - after opening the doors and disappearing such strict control, the possible experience of women's freedom has exacerbated the violence of those male abusers. There are nineteen women killed in this state in what ranges from 2021, one death for macho violence - yes, macho - every three days since the end of the state of alarm and this last week almost one victim every day. This is unbearable. As of June, five have been the victims, pending confirmation of the cases of the two 21-year-olds and 17-year-olds allegedly murdered by their partners or ex-partners, and the murder of the two girls in Tenerife, a clear and terrible example of the use of children as an instrument to harm the mother, especially when she takes the course of her life and decides to end the relationship with her partner. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation, this increasingly serious macho violence, is not random, it is structural, because as much as some people are trying to deny its existence, we have been living under the heteropatriarchal model that undervalues us, discriminates us and attacks us for years, not to say millennia. Because yes, machismo is the one that kills us. And what's he doing in front of this? Steps are taken, but they are totally insufficient, because once again society and the feminist wave show the incapacity of governments and institutions and demand that more, much more be done. That is why we believe that this bill represents, as I have already acknowledged, a small step forward, but let us not forget that more extensive measures are needed because our aim must be for no creature to be orphaned by male-based violence and, therefore, no more murders. This is our priority, and it is also necessary to address prevention, for example by implementing procedures in social services for the detention of violence against children, or specialized care protocols for children at risk of violence against their mothers; the inclusion of professionals specializing in children and gender-based violence in teams working with children and women victims of gender-based violence, or campaigns against gender-based violence that take into account children and children at risk of violence against their mothers, as well as aimed at raising awareness of the citizenry of children who suffer from gender-based violence. There is also a need for education and training in respect and feminist values - yes, from young people, from school - so that we can build a free and respectful society, so that we can ensure that women do not systematically suffer discrimination or violence against us. We don't want to be brave, we want to be free. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u42	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal for a law brought to us today by the Socialist Party constitutes a necessary and logical complement to the provisions of the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on Measures for the Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, which has been the subject of several amendments and adaptations in 2007, 2015 and 2018, and recently, in June 2021, by the Organic Law 8/2021 of 4 June, on the comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence. We say what is logical and necessary from a partly critical position, as regards the legal construction of it, but we start from a clear and concise criterion that appears in the statement of reasons for this proposed law, and that in turn repeats what is stated in the statement of reasons of the Organic Law 1/2004, on Measures against Gender Violence. And it says: 'The public authorities cannot be alien to gender-based violence, which is one of the most flagrant fundamental attacks such as freedom, equality, life, security and non-discrimination proclaimed in our Constitution. In accordance with article 9.2 of the Constitution, these same public authorities have an obligation to take positive action to make these rights real and effective, removing obstacles that impede or hinder their fullness.' It is therefore this, and not another, the origin and fate of this proposal of law, because we start from the social and political conviction of the exceptionality and reality of gender-based violence, and if we were not concerned with its more absolute rejection and condemnation, there would be no specific reason to be this change. It is therefore an explicit legislative change to ensure that orphans, who are directly victims of gender-based violence against their mothers, are not further harmed throughout the subsequent process. The aim is to complete the protection of children orphaned by the death of their mothers as a result of violence against them. Protection that in the case of this proposed law has a very specific scope, which is that of reforming the procedure of liquidation of the matrimonial regime of the deceased mothers, facilitating access to inheritance by the orphans without the need for agreement of the killers of those. We believe that any action that removes the obstacles and problems added to these victims of gender-based violence is essential and positive. We've all been shaking for the last few weeks. I am not going to repeat what has already been said repeatedly, although not to say often enough, I am not going to go into vicarious violence either, because it is the most inhuman and execrable thing that can come out of a person's mind, but I say that we are not going to go into cases of murders of women by their partners and ex-pairs because a lot has already been said. Murders that on more than one occasion have left father and mother orphans, as is said in the preamble to this bill, because they lose the mother for murder and lose the father for murder. A real tragedy that can be a drama if measures are not subsequently taken to support, facilitate and remove obstacles, often legal and judicial, that do not help or benefit anyone, and even less the victims. The logical consequence of this reduction of obstacles is the attribution to the courts themselves of violence against women of competence to carry out the procedures for the liquidation of the matrimonial economic regime established by the aforementioned victims, concentrating on the same judicial body that is familiar with the criminal procedure this civil procedure. Undoubtedly, this measure can be questionable in the proper sense of the questionable word. That is to say, the political and also legal reasoning that defends the need to transfer these cases, in principle economic, to the courts of violence, that is, the argument of this proposal. However, surely also if the natural courts on more than one occasion were to function free of obstacles and with a positive attitude, this change might not have been necessary. But as expressed in the exhibition - and we have also heard from the different associations working in the area of care for women and orphans - the reality is quite different. Finally, it is proposed to exempt the tax from the tax on transfers of assets and the tax on the increase in the value of land of an urban nature, so that economic burdens that affect the achievement of the purpose in the acquisition of the goods are also eliminated, which is nothing other than the guarantee of judicially recognized compensation. We understand that anything that does not harm the victims is welcome. There is no need to stress what has already been said, and it would also be rather distasteful to try to seek a kind of profit from the beneficiaries in this amendment. Nothing further. I believe that we must have the greatest legal rigour and act with absolute transparency, doing positive discrimination - yes, positive discrimination - and following the spirit of the Law against Gender Violence, but without frivolizing. In any case, we believe that this matter needs to be improved legally and, therefore, at the stage of processing we will make the relevant and timely contributions, which we believe will be positive even for the law itself. Moreover, although the outlying territories of Euskadi are competent in fiscal matters, the modification of these taxes does not reach the taxes approved by the historical territories acting within the framework of their outlying tax power. Finally, once again, we see how equality and gender-based violence are awarded by the Socialist Group. Why is there a proposal for a law being, as you are, in the government? Who is the head of the ministry? I already know that it is legal and parliamentaryly correct that you bring a proposal for a law, it would be missing more, until that we have arrived, but do you think it is logical? One more chapter of his internal troubles. We shall vote in favour of this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u44	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that it is hard to address these issues after the news of the last few days. I go up to the sad rostrum trying to understand the incomprehensible. So the first thing I want to do is send all my love, the love of my party, of Citizens, to the victims of the last few days. All our love and support for Beatriz, the mother of Anna and Olivia; all our love and support for the family of the murdered woman in Seville, for her ex-partner, at only seventeen years old; all our love and support for Yaiza's father, murdered by her mother at four years old. As I said, I go up broke, full of impotence, and that is what it does to reaffirm my conviction that we must continue to work tirelessly so that these cases will not be repeated again. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be against all forms of violence, we must recognize the existence of macho violence, we must recognize that it exists, that it is a scourge, and that to combat it, we must all be together and committed. We must send a unanimous message to society, that no citizen will find the slightest shadow when he looks at his representatives. We are against all violence, we want to end it. Therefore, we focus on the importance of ending this scourge of macho violence. Ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to the macho violence, we must also put aside sectarianisms, because from my party, from Citizens, we have put forward a bill to properly implement the State Pact against Macho Violence in the Senate. We were specifically talking about the need to address vicarious violence, and the sectarianism of the Socialist Party led him to vote no, and to vote no to progress in the implementation of the state pact. Therefore, I also make a call to responsibility. It is intolerable that this is happening. We must leave pain and suffering out of politics, as we have seen that there are parties within the government willing to do politics with painful causes. Politics has to be done here. That is why I say again to the Socialist Party that you yourselves question and undermine your own speech when here you always vote against any initiative that involves an advance in addressing macho violence and the protection of minors only because of the political colour that presents it, which is Citizens. The law we are discussing now addresses measures to protect orphans who leave gender-based violence; a law that articulates a series of measures that we believe are in the right direction. These are measures that speed up procedures for determining inheritance, and include a range of tax exemptions that ensure that the child does not lose his or her assets or have to bear unnecessary tax burdens. And it is that today, ladies and gentlemen, these minors are suffering in the first person the consequences of the scourge of macho violence, and the families that host them must face a huge amount of bureaucratic obstacles in order to be able to access the rights they have recognized; barriers that, moreover, are increased depending on the autonomous community in which they live. As I was telling you, we believe that these are steps in the right direction, but there are still many on the way. We must continue to work to improve the situation of children who are victims of gender-based violence. In particular, we believe that it is urgent to extend the status of a victim of gender-based violence to the children of murdered women who are under their custody and custody. We want the right of comprehensive social assistance to be extended to minors, as recognized in that State pact. We also believe that housing resources must be increased at the disposal of women with children so that they can have immediate access to housing or accommodation when they are forced to leave the home they share with their aggressor. As I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, these measures are provided for in the State Pact against Gender Violence. With regard to the protection of minors, we also believe that progress must be made in a firm way and must be a priority of the Ministry of Equality. And I say that it is not a priority right now because we have not seen a law in this regard, we have not seen a legislative improvement in this regard. Now, despite all the discrepancies in other matters that we have, ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to do is to be firm in what is Citizens. Citizens are a party that protects equality, that protects freedom, that is consistent in a useful way with what we believe in and what we believe is that we must take a firm step forward in the protection of victims of sexist violence and in the protection of minors. That is why we are clearly going to vote in favour of this proposal, because we are consistent with our ideas and are not sectarians, but support what we see useful and which we see fit to improve our society. Minors who are victims of sexist violence see how their family environment is altered overnight, with harmful consequences in both the emotional and economic spheres. We, as public representatives, cannot look elsewhere and be insensitive to this kind of situation. Of course, Citizens will not, we will support this proposal and work on it to improve it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. After a few terrible days in which macho violence in its form of gender-based violence, vicarious violence, struck dramatically, all the political or legal actions that go in the direction of combating it and protecting the victims are absolutely necessary, although we believe that such actions may be insufficient or unambitious. They are also necessary when, as in this case, it is a question of protecting minors who, as we have just seen, are brutally directly or indirectly victims of male-based violence. That is why the reform that is being put forward seems to us to be timely because, on the one hand, it makes it easier for the heirs to urge the procedure for the settlement of profits and, on the other hand, it establishes that the courts of violence against women are also competent, and on the other hand, it addresses the question of the taxation of compensation received by the sons and daughters of murdered women when it comes to movable or immovable property, which is clearly not fair. However, what has been experienced these days also shows that more efforts and more means are needed to strengthen the fight against macho violence, and given that in this proposal new functions are attributed to the courts of Violence on Women I would like to recall that in Galicia there are only two, in Vigo and in A Coruña, and that in the investment agreement the creation of the courts of Santiago, Lugo and Ourense is included by proposal of the BNG. They fulfil that commitment because it is absolutely necessary. We shall vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u49	Let me begin my parliament by congratulating the public officials who have discovered a new puff of King Emeritus in Andorra. My sincere congratulations. A reflection for the government parties along the lines expressed by Mr Agirretxea. Of course, they have all the legitimacy to present what they consider appropriate, including proposals for legislation, but there is a simpler, faster mechanism to legislate, to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. That mechanism is called BOE. Royal decree-law, BOE and automatically comes into force. And so maybe we'll save ourselves the nonsense and the evils that we'll probably hear in a while. This is what the Valencian Government did two and a half years ago, in 2018, when in the law accompanying the budgets of the Generalitat to equate the victims of gender-based violence with the victims of terrorist violence, within the framework of the commitment signed in the Valencian Pact against Macho Violence. EUR 75 000 is what they will receive now, compared to the EUR 6 000 they received before, and this aid will be extended not only to their children, if any, or to those who are entitled or cared for, but also to their parents, mothers or other family members. Think about it, maybe these fulls were more agile and we could probably...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví, your time is up, thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u51	At the moment, thousands of women are experiencing the abuse of their partners, some of whom are terrified every time the news reports, like an evil drop on our consciences, of a new macho murder. Next to these women live children, young people who feel the helplessness of those who cannot change things, until the violence strikes the blow that changes everything from above and leaves them helpless. Amparo comes in foreplay, forwards. That's what we mothers do instinctively every time a danger stalks our children, so I can't think of a better word to define what this proposal offers to orphans of sexist violence: shelter, thinking of those mothers who know they are in danger and who deserve a state called welfare to do everything possible to keep them alive, but also to support those who want them most, their children, in case of fatality. If we ask ourselves what right the spouse who has widowed himself has over the property of his wife, we would say that none, once a final sentence has been handed down. But until then - even once this has happened - orphans are going to live a situation between legal helplessness and impossible bureaucracy. Therefore, in Junts we take into consideration a text that aims to establish a clear protocol in gender violence that begins by making the Violence against Women Court competent also in the liquidation of the property of the marriage; by bureaucratically facilitating that orphaned children cover as soon as possible the settlement of property or compensation determined by civil liability; by achieving that they are tax-free remuneration for orphans, other than taxation which prevents them from receiving such compensation; by maintaining the orphan's pension in cases where minors are adopted by a family, especially if the family does not have resources, because, otherwise, orphans and adopters are to be condemned to poverty; by avoiding the helplessness of those children of the monomarental family who cannot access the full performance of absolute orphanhood after the murder of their mother when the aggressor has not been the father, but another couple or ex-partner of the mother. And I am sure that in the debate phase we will address other points that will open up other beneficial avenues for orphans of sexist violence. One derives from the legal situation that prevents minors from holding mortgages. By being obliged to cancel these charges on the property inherited, the bank imposes a penalty on them for the advance payment of the mortgage. It would be good to propose that there should be protocols of good banking practice that do not penalize in these cases. As you can see, there are many good reasons why this House should defend itself; otherwise we will all be orphans of justice. We are aware that we are talking about orphans with a gender perspective over and over again, so it will be good to end a quote from African-American activist Jane Galvin-Lewis: 'You don't have to be anti-man to be pro-woman'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u52	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u53	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, good afternoon. This initiative will have a limited impact in Catalonia because our powers already regulate the proposals for improvement that the Socialist Group is presenting to us today. However, as a woman, as a mother, as a feminist and as a legislator, it is necessary to ensure the welfare of all our children. We'll watch over everyone and all of them so they never stop feeling the protection of their mothers. We will watch over them even when they have been murdered at the hands of their parents, at the hands of a society that must face a scourge: machismo; a machismo that has taken out nineteen lives this 2021 and left seven minor orphans. Now more than ever, when the extreme right reopens Francoist debates, boycotts moments of silence, expands its misogyny and endangers our lives and that of our children, we need to address the macho terrorism that plagues the Spanish State. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days we have seen once again the most extreme face of gender-based violence: vicarious violence. No doubt, an abuser will never be a good father. This premise must permeate all the powers and administrations of the State. Facilitating the procedures resulting from the loss of a mother is sensible, ensuring access to inheritance and compensation is necessary and legislating to strengthen a life free of violence for our children is unquestionable. We know that violence is learned, it is not an innate fact, and we know that the young witnesses of this violence have a great chance of perpetuating the behaviour of the aggressors. It is a vicious circle that it is time to break, although we are already late. We cannot allow the numbers of victims and orphans to continue to grow; it is not enough to repair, it is not enough to alleviate the damage. Ladies and gentlemen, today mothers do not want to see a partisan battle; today mothers want to see agreement, we want to see accountability, we want to see real institutional support; today mothers want solutions; today mothers want our children and daughters to be protected even when everything has been taken away from us, as much as even life has been taken away from us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u55	Good afternoon. There are some proper names that none of the 350 ladies in this House should forget or lose our minds, some only: Rocío, Ana, Olivia, Beatriz. They're just some of the most recent, but there's a lot, a lot more names, and there's also a lot of other victims of sexist violence that we don't even know the name of. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the causes that should move us as representatives without exception is the fight against sexist violence; being out of that conviction is not a democracy. That is why, with this deep democratic conviction, we are going to support the processing of this law brought by the Socialist Group today, which comes from civil society and which is part of the Fifth Annual Report of the Soledad Cazorla Scholarship Fund, a feminist woman who was the first prosecutor of the Chamber specialising in violence against women and who was very concerned about the child victims of gender-based violence. We see fit and need the content of this bill which aims to complement the current regulations on the reparation of orphans because of violence against women. Having said that, there are two aspects that we want to highlight and present here from the Podemos-En Comú Pode-Galicia in common. The first has to do with something that we have always said: sexist violence manifests itself beyond the realm of partner or ex-partner. This idea, which is internationally mandated, has been strongly spoken in the streets and has also been strongly corroborated in this House. And the situations of orphanhood due to the Machist violence are, therefore, more than those circumscribed to those in which the killer was a partner or ex-partner, as stated in Law 1/2004. The explanatory statement cites data from orphaned persons since 2013, more than 300, but these data refer only to violence in the context of couples or ex-partners, many orphaned persons are left out of the picture because of sex violence: the children of victims of sexual femicide, women murdered after being sexually assaulted or in contexts of trafficking or prostitution, among others. In such cases, there may also be no other parent figure than that of the murdered mother, and all of these victims are left out. This was already initiated by Law 3/2019 of 1 March on the improvement of the orphan status of the children of victims of gender-based violence and other forms of violence against women. This law has already been seen in the 12th Legislature. We must open every improvement in regulation in this area not only to cases involving violence under Law 1/2004, but to orphans for all forms of violence against women provided for in the Istanbul Convention. In this regard, the preliminary draft of the Organic Law on the Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, the law alone is, is progressing in the effective equalization of the children of victims of sexual feminicide in access to the orphan's benefit and pension. The Podemos Union and the Ministry of Equality know that this is the way not to be responding in a differentiated and unfair way to the victims of machist violence. The second aspect has to do with repair. The reparation is undoubtedly one of the objects of this proposition of law, because it is something that moves in the patrimony, in the material and also in the symbolic. And you will see, these performances work in both directions, also in reverse. I will say more clearly, making gestures of support to whom the law has condemned as an abuser is incompatible with the reparation of victims of sexist violence. [[Applauds]] Ovation of the Machist aggressors is incompatible with the reparation of the victims of Machist violence. [[Applauds]] To stigmatize women by reporting macho violence, vicarious violence is incompatible with the reparation of victims of macho violence. Frivolizing, joking with sexist violence is incompatible with the reparation of victims of sexist violence. Denying violence against women, denying machismo, denying that patriarchy remains a system that creates oppression for women is incompatible with reparation for victims of machista violence and is incompatible with social reparation, because we must repair every victim of such machista violence, from such violence against women because of being women. In addition, we must recover as a society. We must start to speak firmly about the culture of reparation; recognize survivors; recognize the laws that have made us move forward in democracy and towards equality; recognize, salute and approve the laws that continue to be defended by this Government so that we can achieve full citizenship for all people. This is what we must think, work and approve, so that it is in the Official State Gazette and that it is a reality in every town and every neighborhood. Culture of reparation, because this is done from the perspective of human rights; culture of reparation, because this is also done prevention, and culture of reparation, because this is how we will shape a more just society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u56	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all children here and we have all been vulnerable children dependent on the love and care of our parents. Can we even imagine what we would have suffered if we had lost them in the midst of that vulnerability? Can we even imagine helplessness, loneliness, uncertainty, fear? Can we even imagine the immense pain we would have felt if we had lost them in a violent and sudden way? Can you imagine that we would have had to go through the horror of losing our murdered mother at the hands of our father? Could we even put ourselves on the skin of creatures who have had to go through such a terrible experience? Surely not, because it is inhuman cruelty, as inhuman as having to go through the experience of losing your father at the hands of your own mother, exactly the same. [[Applauds]] That is why we, as legislators, have such a huge responsibility, so enormous for children who are orphaned by any circumstance and, of course, much more if the orphanhood occurs to them by such terrible circumstances. That is why it is so difficult for us to understand that you bring us a proposal for a law on a subject so sensitive and of such importance as a vulgar ideological measure, a vulgar ideological measure to combat gender-based violence, which is what you call what is nothing more than violence carried out vilely by some savages who do not deserve to call themselves men against their women. [[Applauds]] Regrettably, you do not pose this bill as an aid to all children who become orphans. You only use this law to impose your judgment, showing that you really care very little about orphaned children and that you only use them to put them at the service of your ideological interests. Definitely, ladies and gentlemen, this sectarianism of yours is turning you into extremely unfair legislators. Since 2013, more than 300 minors have been orphaned as a result of their parents'violent crimes against their mothers, and it is terrible, terrible and intolerable. But is it less painful for them to lose their father at the hands of their mother? Ladies and gentlemen, 22 men were killed by their women between 2016 and 2018 and 9 in 2019. Intimate domestic violence, you call it to differentiate it from gender violence in a ridiculous attempt to make it look less serious. [[Applauds]] But these parents also left orphans, ladies and gentlemen. Do you really believe that these orphans deserve less, that they suffer less, that they do not need the same help? Do children who have become orphans under other circumstances deserve less? Is it not also terrible for a child to lose his parents in a traffic accident or illness or suicide or violent acts of any other kind? Ladies and gentlemen, we do not remove or place a single coma on the way in which you describe in your bill what the most innocent victims of this barbarism have to suffer, nor a coma, but we do not understand why they discriminate so unfairly against the rest of the orphans in this country, and we are very concerned that they are not attentive to the difficulties they face, whatever the cause they acquire that condition. Of course, it is a horrible stigma that your father is a murderer, but also that your mother is a murderer, and even if there are fewer cases of women killing their partners, making a difference with their children is tremendously unfair, because in all cases there are psychological consequences, in all cases there can be traumas, economic difficulties, need for psychological care; in all cases, the way of life of these children can be changed and displacements to other nuclei or social services can occur; in all cases, also in all cases of orphanhood arising from other causes. Ladies and gentlemen, our duty as legislators is to seek the common good, to seek justice. Why do they only legislate for some? What kind of justice do you believe in? But do you know what is truly sad and truly worrying? That in this effort of yours to care only for the victims of violence against women, in that kind of sectarian overthrow in which you have fallen, you do not realize that you are abandoning the rest of the children and that you are condemning ostracism and forgetfulness in a cruel and unjust way the children who die at the hands of their mothers. Today there is a mother suffering hell for the death of her little ones at the hands of her father, and we are all with her in her pain, absolutely all, dismayed, horrified, in shock, unable to understand so much evil, but there is also a father suffering exactly the same hell for the same, for the death of his daughter, murdered by her mother, also for revenge. Do you believe that the suffering of Ana and Olivia's mother is greater than the suffering of Yaiza's father? That she loved them more? Aren't Ana, Olivia and Yaiza just as victims of evil and just as innocent? [[Applauds]] I am ashamed that as a society we have not reacted in the same way to a case exactly the same, I am ashamed that we have left this father alone in his pain, I am ashamed of the media for which this case has not deserved a review and the politicians for which it has not deserved a minute of silence. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the aberration to which you lead us as a society with the imposition of your gender ideology. If you were fair and even-handed, you would take into account that only 20% of the killing of children in our country has to do with the so-called gender-based violence and you were also concerned about the remaining 80% of the children killed in Spain, children killed primarily by their mothers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 70 per cent of the country's filicides are committed by women, 95 per cent of newborn killings are committed by women, and yet you continue to spend hundreds of millions of euros to prevent violence against women and leave just a few crumbs to prevent violence against children. For some reason you are still committed to making us believe that only male crime is a social problem, to making us believe that men are worse than women, when there are also bad women, women like Ana Julia Quezada, and when Medea's syndrome, which causes these two horrible cases for which all of Spain weeps today, is much more common in women than in men. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will only perpetuate the injustice and discrimination between orphans that have already begun with the Law on Improving the Orphanhood Situation of Victims of Gender Violence, because it will again apply only to orphans of gender violence. But we believe that our obligation as legislators is to alleviate the vulnerability of all orphans. We believe that our obligation is to protect all victims from violence without making distinctions, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to oppose this law, on the contrary, we are going to do everything in our power to ensure that the orphans of mothers murdered by their partners live safer and more protected, but we are also going to propose how many amendments we consider necessary for all orphan children in this country to be treated in the same way and for no one to be discriminated against or despised whatever the cause of their orphanhood. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Today the Socialist Party is presenting us with a proposal for a law to improve the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. So far, everything is normal, if not because the Socialist Party is in government and could have undertaken this reform two years ago; if not because we are faced with an initiative of the Socialist Party alone, which urges in an area of gender-based violence, competence of the Ministry of Equality, in the hands of Podemos. It does not surprise us, because of all the well-known struggles between Podemos and PSOE in the field of equality. And it is not that this struggle to see who of the two partners of the government comes sooner or better has made them redouble their work and efforts in this area, but has led to paralysis and inaction. Not a single law in a year and a half has been able to bring the Minister of Equality to this Congress. Those who try to bring them, they kill them before they arrive; those who support, they do not go forward, and those who should lead them, they bring them, as we see today, the Socialist Party. Sad role for what had to be a ministry and a feminist minister. For this reason, at a time when all the experts agree on the upswing of gender-based violence and in a few dark weeks that have us all dismayed, the Ministry of Equality has cut the funds of the State Pact for the larger municipalities or refused to invest in Chapter 1 and Chapter 6 as an exceptional situation. Or what about the UFAMs? Women, they're protected. For example, in the UFAM of the Balearic Islands there is now one agent for every one hundred and fifty women to protect. Is this a way of protecting women who not without many difficulties come to file a complaint? That is why of the two hundred and ninety measures contained in the state pact, in the words of the minister herself, seventy-five, 25 %, have been fulfilled in four years; a pact in which the minister does not believe, that is why she did not sign it; a pact which she is trying to replace with other strategies. But the People's Party is not going to allow us to stop implementing the pact that we all gave ourselves. That is why, after the last few weeks, we are surprised that the only initiative of the ministry has been to summon, three weeks ago, the parliamentary spokespersons and representatives of the observatory to put them to work, to ask them to tell the ministry what they need to do. The work is done, it's called a state covenant, and the one who has to do it and lead it is the ministry. If they don't want to, if they don't know or if they can't, let them leave it. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting today an initiative, or, which is the same, a focus on the Ministry of Equality to implement once and for all axis four of the State Pact against Gender Violence. The People's Party has demonstrated through its actions and laws its firm commitment to child victims of gender-based violence. In fact, if today these children are considered victims of gender-based violence, it is thanks to the People's Party. Since 2013, when, thanks to the People's Party, these children are beginning to be counted, we have 311 orphans of gender-based violence, seven in 2021. The conviction of the People's Party that this form of domestic violence, precisely where the most protected should be, also makes them victims, has led to the amendment of laws in order to do so, and we must move forward. That is why the People's Party presented a PNL in March in compliance with axis four. The amendment made to Law 3/2019 of 1 March involved the inclusion within the Social Security of an orphan's allowance for minors whose mother has died as a result of gender-based violence, since a convicted person for a final sentence for murder cannot acquire the status of beneficiary. However, it has been shown how the law leaves out, for example, orphans whose father is not the person convicted of murder, but another partner of the mother, not being able to access the full orphan benefit, or if her parent is not in a position to take care of and protect minors, or in cases where a family adopts the orphan. The Act itself provided in the second additional provision for the obligation to assess it within three months in the event of any need for adjustment. Apparently, it hasn't been done. According to the Women's Foundation itself, there are problems such as non-payment of arrears, insufficient information mechanisms, misadjustments in the calculation and confusion procedures in the recognition of pension and benefit. That is why we are missing in this proposal the correction of these situations which we hope will be able to introduce into the process of amendments. In this way, the cases described above could be included, as well as the lack of protection for orphans when their mother was not a social security contributor or did not meet the minimum requirements for access. Finally, with regard to the specific text proposed to us by the Socialist Party, we appreciate that, although we understand that it is a bill for victims of gender-based violence, in terms of access to inheritance, it includes all the heirs of the deceased person so that no orphan is unprotected, regardless of the cause that caused his or her orphanhood and of who the deceased parent is. We will therefore also propose, in the course of amendments, to extend the tax exemptions provided for in this law for victims of gender-based violence to other orphans who are under protection. We are aware of the specific consequences of gender-based violence on children and therefore no orphan in our country should be left in a vulnerable situation. We will always, as the People's Party has shown, place the best interests of the child, whatever the circumstances, at the centre of our political action. We will vote in favour of this consideration and we look forward to dialogue and generosity in accepting the amendments of my group, in accordance with the spirit of the State Pact against Gender Violence. With this I conclude, not without regreting the fact that I have a silent Ministry of Equality on the issues of concern to citizens, generating noise and controversy, and that, between one and the other, PSOE and Podemos, equality policies and the State Pact against Gender Violence have remained in the drawer of their discord. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u60	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u61	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia in Communo, which urges the Government to continue the campaigns carried out by the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the field of labour to ensure compliance with labour law in all areas, guarantee workers' rights and at the same time protect the majority of employers from unfair competition. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u62	Thank you, President. The current coalition government has a strong commitment to the quality of employment and working conditions in Spain. This is demonstrated by the Ministry of Labour and our vice-president, Yolanda Díaz, even in the toughest moments of the pandemic. All economic sectors with high temporality have the greatest degree of precariousness, and I say all without exception. Precarity has become a business of such a size that even there are companies that profit exclusively from this form of hiring, such as temporary work companies. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate is doing a job that I must say is excellent, checking and enforcing labour regulations in all sectors, in all without exception, also in agricultural campaigns, with a comprehensive approach and with clear objectives: correcting and demanding responsibilities in cases where the rights of workers are violated, especially in the most basic aspects of labour relations, which are decent work, wage guarantees and working time. Since May 2020 around 10 000 inspections have been initiated, of which 7137 have already been completed with the following results. A total of 3004 infringements have been detected in the completed inspections or dossiers. Of these offences, 874 are offences for irregular work by foreign persons. In addition, 847 ex officio discharges have been processed. These figures confront us with a clumsy reality, which has also been constantly denounced for many years by trade union and agricultural organizations, and which a decent country must face with determination. And I tell you more, a clear conclusion has been drawn from all these inspections: the vast majority of landowners and landowners of farms scrupulously comply with labour regulations, and it is especially they and they who must be protected from a situation that also affects them negatively, because they are suffering from constant unfair competition from a minority in the sector that is not representative and is not complying with the law. In addition, it must be understood that the social mechanisms of the common agricultural policy must be directed primarily at small and medium-sized farms, especially those of a family nature, which live by working the land day by day and which do so with enormous problems and with enormous difficulties; these must be the first objectives for the allocation of the funds of the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. In addition, another conclusion has to be drawn from this, and it also has to do with the prices of poverty that our farmers and our farmers charge for their productions, especially negative again for those family farms. They are the ones who, again, need more help to be able to hire workers, who also have more work to do or who have more work to do, even if they are able to live or survive themselves. For all this in the United Nations Group We have been working tirelessly with agricultural organizations for months to put an end to other abusive practices, such as sale at loss, with mechanisms such as cost indicators as a reference for contracts or advertising contracts so that they sell at fair prices and can survive decently and have better wages for their workers. That is exactly the same logic that applies to the work of labour inspectors who are currently working in the field to ensure that the working conditions of rural workers are respected. In the face of some barbarities that we are going to hear here today, I will never tire of pointing out that the quality of economic and labour conditions is not exclusive to some sectors and not to others. And I'm saying it clearly. I think it is time for us to finish - and I am going to work tirelessly on this - with the arguments that justify that the primary sector can have terrible conditions compared to other sectors, something which I have so many times, unfortunately, heard in this parliamentary seat and outside this parliamentary seat. This is because of a very basic and very dignified question: that the countryside deserves the same, exactly the same conditions of dignity as the banking sector, as the industrial sector or as any other economic sector, because the primary sector cannot be less than the rest. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, a field with decent working conditions and fair prices is important and essential for our country, but it is even more important for the land from which I come, for Andalusia, because in my land we are the most important contributors to the primary sector, not only from Spain, but from all of Europe. How Andalusian, today and here I am proud to defend the work of the Labour Inspectorate, but I am also proud to defend the Gadite industry, as yesterday, with the maintenance of Airbus Puerto Real or - what we come to talk about today - the decent working conditions in the field, and we do - listen well - with the same conviction with which Blas Infante already spoke in 1913 when he wrote the Ideal Andalusian. And I quote it: 'I have been stuck in consciousness since childhood the shadowy vision of a newspaperman'. Therefore, today more than ever - and with this I conclude, President - Andalusia, from this Confederal Parliamentary Group, defends dignity in the field and will continue to define it always. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u64	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today in this House an initiative that aims to improve labour inspections to ensure something that concerns us all: to ensure workers' labour rights. I would like to begin by making it clear that, despite the image they are trying to present in Spain so often the parties that govern and support the Government, our country is a modern democracy, with many pending and desirable improvements, which is why we will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal with the compromise that has been reached with other parties. Those who trample on workers' rights are not a generality, we have to make it very clear, and today in your speech I have to tell you that I have heard something much more sensible. It is a minority of workers that must be fought for so that they can have the same rights as others. But let us not generalize, because entrepreneurs in any sector and in our field get up every day thinking that they want the best for their activity and for their workers. On the subject, I would also like to recall some evidence, such as the health of the Spanish labour market, which is not what we would like. To the ravages that this crisis has caused in unemployment, in the closure of businesses and in the affiliations to Social Security, there are chronic problems, such as the very high rate of temporality. Ladies and gentlemen, we talk a lot about this rate of temporality without really knowing what we are talking about. We are talking about temporary contracts chained for years leading to the poverty of workers, because, ladies and gentlemen, from the government, even if the minimum inter-professional wage is raised, if we meet workers who only work four months, their purchasing power will remain lower, while if we achieve that they are more stable and quality jobs, we will actually make the workers live decently. Are we facing only a problem of lack of inspections or is it a problem that is suspected that in Spain, because yes, workers' rights are always being trampled on? No, ladies and gentlemen, we have the problem in the very design and functioning of our labour market. Why? Because it makes us overly dependent on mechanisms such as the Labour Inspectorate to control those recesses that the law leaves unresolved. This type of tools, as well as the judicialization of labour disputes, highlight a structural problem, and is that in Spain there is a lot of uncertainty about the reasons and causes that can justify a temporary contract, a contract change or a dismissal. In the agricultural sector this is even more serious, because there is the figure of the temporary worker who works only at some stages of the year. The consequence of this indefinitiveness is that, in order to mitigate its effects, there are not only unfair labour decisions for some workers, which in the end have to raise them, but also a significant expenditure of public resources which, if corrected, would bring greater security to businesses and workers and, moreover - and this is very important - uncertainty in terms of the relative cost of new recruitments could be eliminated, thus driving greater dynamism in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the main problem in the Spanish labour sector, excessive time, bloody youth unemployment and, above all, the lack of reforms. The Government and the parties that support it cannot take off their responsibility with a GNP, when what they are really promising is to repeal the Labour Reform Act. Do you really believe that that helps to give certitude to the workers? Let us be a little serious, let us really think about the workers and let us also think about the entrepreneurs, who are the ones who have to deal with this kind of eventualities and this type of recruitment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, do not turn every debate into a plebiscite between good and evil. And as in Citizens we take initiatives very seriously, I will tell you that it is true that sometimes - I insist that these are very specific cases - situations of abuse occur that directly attack the dignity of the human being. They're known to all and fortunately they're detected. They are serious, serious excesses and abuses on the part of some farms - as it has been possible to pass with the strawberry in Huelva or in greenhouses in Almería - but we cannot criminalise the whole sector. That is why, I insist, we must not assume that image that is sometimes taken - and the truth is that today I thank Mrs Franco for correcting it -, those words that we always say that it is a widespread abuse of the worker, when we know that our farmers are the first to want their workers to have a decent job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u65	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u66	Thank you very much, President. In the explanatory statement I found a significant data: of the 7000 visits that were carried out in 2018, 4000 files were opened, and in the data of the Ministry of Labour itself we see that in the last year there have been 2800 violations - 2800 violations! - and sanctions worth 17 million. We have found labour exploitation, slavery and sexual abuse, as in the case of strawberry. A finding as Valencian: in the Valencian countryside, Valencian is no longer spoken. Why? Because they only go to people who in many cases can be deprived of their labour rights. I think about it. When we always talked about corruption - basically, the corruption of the People's Party, Gürtel and all the puphos it had - there were profit-making companies, those that paid, and there were honest companies that were deprived in many cases of those contracts to which they legitimately were entitled and affected those companies and their workers. In the countryside it is the same: when someone disappoints, when someone is in an irregular situation, when someone does not pay them the right thing, when they do not respect their labour rights, not only disappoints the State, not only disappoints their workers, it is that they make an unfair competition. We will therefore vote in favour, because we believe that this is the way for companies to work and compete on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u67	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u68	Thank you, President. We are in favour of ensuring compliance with labour law. What we do not agree with is to stigmatise an entire sector. In May last year, various media outlets published an instruction from the Ministry of Labour calling on labour inspectors to detect during the agrarian campaign cases of labour exploitation and trafficking in human beings for the imposition of labour, forced services, slavery or slavery-like practices. These words caused great discomfort both among farmers and among farmers' associations in Catalonia by criminalising the sector. We believe that it is not the intention or purpose of this non-law proposal, but involuntarily they are being stigmatized by including exclusively the agricultural sector. You argue to continue with the campaign carried out by the Labour Inspectorate with the aim of ensuring compliance with labour regulations coinciding with the times of greater seasonal activity. The field sector is not the only sector where seasonal and temporary activity takes place. There are other sectors where seasonal and temporary activities are carried out where no non-legislative proposals have been submitted to discuss in Congress whether or not they comply with current labour regulations. In the explanatory statement for this non-law proposal you indicate that most landowners want to comply scrupulously with the regulations. I ask you to rectify; most of the landowners of the farms comply scrupulously with the regulations. In Lleida, the vast majority of agricultural entrepreneurs comply with the rules and are harmed by a vision that does not conform to reality. Let me illustrate to you with the following data: in 2018, of the 523 inspections carried out, only 2,6 % were recorded for minor faults and 0,7 % for serious faults. Inspections are becoming less and less positive; between 2015 and 2020 they have been reduced to 70 %. Agriculture is a basic sector to ensure access to food. During the COVID-19 pandemic it was recognized as a strategic and essential sector. It is a sector which, moreover, helps to set the population in the territory and creates opportunities. In Lleida there are more than 33,000 jobs. For all the above reasons, we will always agree to ensure compliance with labour standards, as it cannot be otherwise. However, we do not agree to focus the problem on a specific sector. We welcome the incorporation of our amendment in order to avoid such a focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u70	Too late for everyone. The Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can present to us today a non-legislative proposal that basically focuses on two issues; first, the intensification of the work of the Labour Inspectorate, both in the State and in the other administrations that, like the Generalitat, has its own competence and transferred, and it is true that there have been and we congratulate the minister for it. And secondly, the need to continue and increase labour inspections specifically in the field, noting that the agricultural sector - as my partner said earlier - is not a more fraudulent sector than the others; it is one more, because there is fraud everywhere. We therefore, of course, also accept that the whole sector should not be stigmatised. Now, let's go through with it. That there is no more fraud in the field than elsewhere does not mean that there can be no particularly difficult situations and particularly vulnerable people, and we are aware, as we have been told, for example, by the SAT union, which is very active in constantly reporting these cases of exploitation, very important cases. That they can be minority? Yes, but, beware!, because some cases are so blatantly perversity that, as we said, slavery, and it is not an adjective that in this case it is free. In addition, here is another reality that helps to exploit, which is that 34% of all contracts are misconceived illegal persons, which makes this exploitation easier, and that is a reality that, even if it is a minority compared to the rest, does not mean that it disappears. However, we have no problem, as we said, taking into account the different national realities and the different models of agrarian exploitation, in which we can focus part of the work of the Labour Inspectorate in the field, which is what it is right now. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to increase the inspection activity, more knowing that, because of the scale of the frauds, the Labour Inspectorate is financed alone by the sanctions itself. And not only in the countryside, but also on the coast and elsewhere. Labour inspectors are missing and, seeing the magnitude of the sanctions, they are paid alone. Then there's no excuse not to. Many of us will agree on this. But what would be useful is to be discussing how the activities of the field inspectors can be made more effective and fairer, and here are some ideas from the Republican Group that we collect from the different unions and groups that denounce these realities. Where there are markedly rural farms, the body can be specialized, for example, by motorizing them. A surprise-free inspection is much less useful, and here is a demand that we pick up from the SAT union and I think it is very relevant. Then there's one of the most important parts for us. Migrants without papers with campaign contracts of four to six months should be regularized. One cannot demand rooting and a one-year contract because this is an impossible condition for these groups. Today we have more than 600,000 people who are in an irregular situation, many of whom are called workers or temporary workers, who must be regulated, for us, urgently, permanently and unconditionally. [[Applauds]] And no longer just for humanitarian reasons - which above all - but also, even, for economic and necessity reasons. Sectoral conventions should be promoted and their implementation monitored. Many conventions do not exist or are not implemented today, and that is the other reality. In fact, in order for us to see the magnitude - which not because it is a minority is no longer less important - even the UN Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Philip Alston, took stock, in his visit to the Kingdom of Spain in 2019, and in his literal words he was amazed to see on the spot the situation of fruit collectors in certain places, who lived, he said, as animals. Meanwhile, large companies earn millions of euros and we have to act. This is not what the SAT says, but what the UN Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights says. Companies must be obliged to provide free accommodation for those working persons who move for long periods away from their habitual residence, and this requires action by the Labour Inspectorate, yes, but it also requires new comprehensive legislation and, apart from this, from the different administrations. Finally, one of the great scourges for workers in the sector is the abuse of recruitment by ETTs and multi-service companies, one of the great scourges of this society, where the majority of working conditions are created that are not in accordance with regulations and, in some cases, with human rights. We must put limits on this abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, the direction taken by the inspection is good, but the speed and intensity of this implementation is still insufficient. We need more inspectors, more commitment to field workers, more legislative changes and more coordination with the rest of the administrations. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. With all due respect to the freedom and capacity of the fourth parliamentary group of the Chamber and a co-participant of the blue bank to use its quota of initiatives as it sees fit, this non-law proposal is a colossal waste, because it is part of an evanescent political literature, without practical use for the Spaniards and, in particular, without practical use for those who work and live in the countryside, striving for heroes of everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, in rural Spain we have a productive model whose future is seriously threatened and the government of Pedro Sánchez is not up to its demands and challenges. United We can, one of the two political organizations that make up the Executive, contribute to spreading the climate of suspicion, spreading the doubts about the fulfilment of workers' rights to a great deal - ethereal recommendations that in a democratic state of law are completely unnecessary, because for that we have laws, administrations and public officials - and, finally, it also calls for the protection of entrepreneurs from unfair competition; that, yes, you point out that the majority of entrepreneurs, with which the fight against unfair competition seems to be based on criteria of distinction, when what is unbearable for all our producers, for economic activity and for employment in rural areas is today the unfair competition of third countries. However, of this serious problem, not a word. In this respect, I would like to stress that one of the main problems in the field is the invasion of the food chain with similar products of non-Community origin, of worse quality, produced under conditions that have nothing to do with European standards, with much lower costs due to the loss of workers' rights, starting with wages and their poor working conditions, and that in many cases they lack the health and food security guarantees required in Spain, which is also a fraud against all consumers. However, these products arrive in Spain and reach the market with the same conditions as the national ones, but at much cheaper prices, which is asphyxiating for our producers and a colossal varapalo for our workers. Being critical with the Ministry of Agriculture, for its passive and condescending role in the negotiations for the new common agricultural policy and even more critical if it can be due to its submission and that of the entire Government to the imposition of the Green Agenda - to which they are dragging to agribusiness and fishing, which has aroused distrust in many sectors - we do not know the work in this regard of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, whose holder is precisely from the orbit of the group that raises this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just heard, the issue before us has a second propaganda variant to highlight the task of the third vice-president and minister of labour and social economy in relation to the work of the State Labour and Social Security Inspection Agency under this Ministry. In this regard, it should be recalled that the inspections were intensified in the agricultural field following the extension of the COVID-19 pandemic and in order to detect possible cases of labour exploitation and even slavery. However, Mrs Díaz Pérez did not need to come to the Government of Spain in order for the ITSS to fulfil its obligations in the detection of infringements and the collection of records. In our country, inspections have been carried out for decades with Governments of all signs and in relation to all economic sectors. What was never done was the blatant self-bombing exercise that disseminates the results of inspections, the imposition of sanctions and the regularization of workers, as if these measures and results were unprecedented in the history of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, all farms and livestock cannot be criminalized. Unfortunately, the existence of underemployment also affects other areas, not only the countryside, and the fight against labour abuse is a task that we are obliged to do yesterday, today and tomorrow, mandated not by Minister Díaz, but by the Spanish Constitution, which in its article 40 - and among other things - calls on the public authorities to ensure safety and hygiene at work, to ensure the necessary rest through the limitation of working hours, periodic paid holidays and the promotion of appropriate centres. Therefore, this parliamentary initiative does not call for anything new to the Government. It is a bell tower exercise, which causes nothing but noise and a lot of anger among the farmers you claim to be defending. Therefore, Mr President, I shall vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Many times for decisions to be made in this House, for us in this House to be sensitive to suffering, it is important that there be people and collectives who denounce and do a job of persecuting real aberrations, and that is what the Andalusian Workers' Union has done for years. The exceptions have been discussed here and I will not deny that they are exceptions, but they are a few. They are exceptions that have names and that land in localities surely of very honest people but where very delectable practices are given. We could talk about Almonte, El Rocío, Palos de la Frontera, La Chaparrilla in Lucena del Puerto in Huelva, Somonte in Almería, Seville. We could talk about how precarious and semi-slavery practices have been allowed in the Andalusian countryside for a long time. And no, ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking about either Ohio or Virginia or the nineteenth century or the slave states of the present United States of America. I am talking about legislation that, despite the fact that most agricultural industrialists are doing well, is allowing other people to exploit human beings. That is the reality with which we should begin to end today. That is why we see this initiative in this way and not in another way. It is true that it cannot be criminalized, but it is absurd for us to hold on only to the fact that certain sectors cannot be criminalized in order, at the same time, to do nothing with others who live with those who cannot be criminalized; that is, to allow some to do so well and others to exploit people. In short, it is that: precariousness, exploitation and semi-slavery. And with whom? For, with the most vulnerable, with all those people who lack papers, with all those people who are in an irregular situation; people who are seen and subjected to working conditions that I would not want any of you for any of your relatives or relatives. That is the reality in which they have to live badly and to which deaf ears have often been made so as not to harm the countryside, even though it was harming the camp itself looking elsewhere. They are hard and precarious jobs in those we said were essential sectors. Do you remember the essential sectors of the first months of the pandemic? There were also the field workers. No one looked at whether they had papers or not. They were asked to go to work and they did not even look at the working conditions in which they were doing it or the conditions of detachment and exploitation in which they had to live. I believe that it is not only a need for more inspectors to get rid of these practices, but it is something that we owe to all those who have broken their backs - this time it can be said in a very graphic way - for food to come to our home and for all of us to take those hard times in the best possible way. Moreover, this fact reveals a very obvious fact, that there are two accounts. Some people think migrants are the culprits of everything. Some people think that migrants are the ones who come to steal from us, those who come to rape our daughters, those who come to live from help and from paguitas. But in reality, what is not meant is that hundreds of thousands of migrant people are working in the field doing the jobs you would not want to do; and they are doing it by reminding you and everyone and everyone that if there is something in this state it is migrant memory, because at some point in the history of this state many of us and of us or of our ancestors had to go out looking for what they were not able to get here. We are glad that it goes beyond inspections in the field, because it brings us more into the debate. It is a reality that we observe for solidarity, but that we may not live with the same intensity as the comrades of the Andalusian nation. We believe that more inspectors are needed, that more means are needed, that more scope is needed in decisions and, above all, that more legal coverage is needed to enable inspectors who detect irregularities and want to punish them to do so. Because so far the 2012 labour reform allowed the role of inspectors to be manipulated and limited by the capabilities and needs of large companies. We are therefore pleased that the radio coverage of complaints to be carried out by inspections is extended. We believe that attention should be paid to the role of women in the labour market, because there is still the glass ceiling and the gender gap and because we see - as is pointed out in different ways - that many employers are using overtime to compensate men for rising in front of women. We also believe that the temporaryity and the fraud that is being caused by it must be put an end to what temporary work companies are to a large extent a part of. And we also believe that we should look at the industrial sector, because it is not normal that many of the Basque companies - and could talk about PCBs, Tubacex, Petronor or any other - are seeing how among the people who fire are always women who have reduced their hours because they have done something that this society pushes them and tells them that they have to do, that is to take care of the care and co-responsibility in the care of our children. I'll finish with a question. We will support for internationalist solidarity, as we said at the beginning, what has to do with the workers of the camp; for internationalist solidarity and because probably many of the Basques and Basques of the left of our country have recorded what the Recidivists said: Let my voice go up to the mountain / let my voice go down to the ravine / until the workers take over the fields. So be it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I read this kind of non-legislative proposition that the government is urged from the government party to do something that the government should have proposed, I am not going to say that my hair is being used as scarves, but the truth is that I do put myself in prevention. That's for starters. Second. It is a non-law proposal and it is true that a non-law proposal is a declaration of intentions, but it is a declaration of intentions in which, of course, more would have to be done, because I have heard many more reasons to vote in favour of this non-law proposal put forward by the groups that have intervened than those put forward by the proposer himself. It is true that we are alluding to a reality that is there and that it is a non-law proposal not to act in the workplace anymore, not to act in favour of certain groups, but to act possibly in the most vulnerable situation that may exist at this time. In principle, apart from the transactional that we have mentioned, it is dedicated to the people working in the countryside and, look!, we know that of 1 800 000 foreigners there are, about 280,000 are discharged into the agricultural system and are therefore those who have been able to be subjected to these conditions of precariousness. I therefore believe that the measures that could have been proposed - or should have been proposed in a non-legislative proposal - and that should commit the Government to doing something that it has not done is what is missing from this non-legislative proposal. We are talking about a precarious sector, we are talking about a sector with temporary work, but we are also talking about a sector for which there have been solutions in different places. The original contract has been applied to prevent fraud and exploitation. It has also been determined what form of housing they can occupy and not the indignities to which they have been subjected on many occasions. It is also necessary to monitor what types of contracts are made and not allow the high fictitiousness that occurs in the procurement and that is not settled until the completion of the work, work or service, but of the peonada to which they are subjected, which certainly does not seem to be too adequate to avoid those conditions of exploitation in which many live. With some exception, I believe that we have all understood that this is a situation in which it is a matter of preventing and channelling, through the work of the inspector, a certain situation which is the most vulnerable to exploitation of those which may exist at the moment. I have also seen that mention is made of a number of actions of the Labour Inspectorate - Labour Inspectorate which, by the way, is in many cases transferred and therefore requires coordination with the Autonomous Communities - which, being important, is not so much in relation to the margin of exploitation or the really exploited collective to which it is referring. In addition, there is another issue that has also been mentioned and that is that the lack of inspection in this sense comes in another area that I believe is relevant, that of competitiveness, that of companies that do meet those that are non-compliant and act in a position of competitive advantage. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not these situations that have been exposed in the non-legislative proposal. We were then given a transaction in which an extension is made not only to this issue, but also to other specific areas and also to temporary work enterprises. We are going to study it, but in principle I am going to make a recommendation - and not just to the proposing group, but to the other one that is part of the government - that to urge the government to implement something that it has been able to implement and that it has had to implement in order to avoid what they are proposing to us is not an acceptable mechanism in this Parliament. We do not like in principle the non-law proposal as it is. We understand all the reasons and participate in all the explanations that have been given, but, in principle, we do not like them. Unless the transactional brings us some degree of certainty, we may abstain, but we will think about it from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u78	With venial, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a non-legislative proposal that affects the extraordinary inspections of farmers, in criminalizing the Spanish agricultural sector, posing a presumption of guilt in the workplace of an entire strategic sector for Spain. It is a sector with a fundamental social dimension for our economy, but communism wants to blame it without any proof, benefiting the depopulation and the large economic groups that take over the fertile soils that are being abandoned. We can contribute to the abandonment of the countryside, probably because there is hardly anyone voting for them anymore, and it coincides in this with important foreign economic powers, as is the case of the United Kingdom, which last year made a report in the BBC where the Spanish agricultural entrepreneur was put under suspicion relating him to alleged illegal labour practices in Almeria. It is the same United Kingdom that signs trade agreements with the Amarroquia autorquia, where socio-occupational rights are virtually non-existent and where, incidentally, super-intensive conventional farms are being promoted in the olive grove or in the fruit and vegetable sector, productions that compete directly with Spanish producers in Almeria. What a coincidence! This BBC report was shared on social media by Teresa Rodríguez, spokesperson for Podemos in Andalusia at the time, directly accusing Almeria farmers of exploitation and slavery. Also until recently, the deputy of Podemos María Márquez Guerrero criminalized the agricultural entrepreneurs of the strawberry last year in a general way accusing them of slavery, violation of labor rights and tax fraud. The communist minister of Podemos Yolanda Díaz uses the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate for extraordinary campaigns exclusively against the agricultural sector, feeding the sector's despicableness and attacking the Spanish countryside. The last of this ministry is to send thousands of letters to the farmers, where it explains to the entrepreneurs of the field that they must transform the temporary contracts into indefinite, disregarding the fact that in the agricultural sector the temporary labor in the collection of the harvests is key in different sectors such as fruit, vegetables or wine. In fact, agricultural employment is marked by the seasonality of the campaigns, the strong dependence of temporary workers, the long tradition and rooting out of the unique formulas and arrangements of recruitment that contemplates collective bargaining of the sector or the difficulties to meet labour needs in the different agricultural tasks. The eventual worker is the backbone of agricultural employment. Most contracts in the field are possible because they are campaign contracts that do not become fixed discontinuous in the regulation of the collective agreement in force. The Government shows with these measures its contempt and ignorance for the agricultural sector and its specific regime. [[Applauds]] This parliamentary group does not advocate that the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate do not comply with their obligation, but we reject extraordinary and persecutory campaigns of this nature, solely and exclusively against the agricultural sector, sectarian truffles and prejudices against agricultural owners. Let me make it clear in this Chamber that there is no slavery in Spain. [[Applauds]] Instead, we do not ensure this in third countries that are flooding the European market for uncontrolled agricultural products, sinking our prices and competing unfairly with our producers. Why don't you denounce the lack of labour and social rights in Islamic countries instead of attacking the national fabric? Why do they not protect Europe's borders and our farmers from unfair competition? [[Applauds]] If there were particular irregularities in the workplace, they would be punished, but this constant attack on an entire sector in general is indecent. The obsession of totalitarian revolutionaries against the rural world and small landowners is not new, and is that the rural world is the antithesis of your communism. In VOX we will vote against this misconception and will always oppose your defiances against the Spanish countryside. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, put on the floor.-Pause.-A cleaning-up worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u79	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today with this GNP does not aim to improve the working conditions of temporary workers. Its only objective is to continue to do nothing, to continue demonizing, to continue to discredit the farmers of this country. They want a field where there are only daisies and plants to be happy, they don't believe in the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is the Government that is causing the greatest job insecurity in the Spanish countryside with its action and its omission! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, when there is more precarious work in the field of our country, it is with the Social-Communist Government. It's very easy to understand. How do they expect our agricultural producers to improve working conditions in the field if they increase their production costs, raise their electricity bill by 50%, suffocate them with taxes, reduce their sales capacity under the Chain Act or increase their labour costs? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos with the support of the PSOE, if you really want to improve working conditions in the field, correct - remember that only when you correct - and continue the good policy put in place by the popular governments of lowering taxes, reducing production costs and making regulation more flexible. The countryside only goes well when it governs the People's Party and our farmers and herders know it. [[Applauds]] And something very simple to understand: to the few who fail to comply with the law, apply, but without scarecrows and without evil press headlines of Minister Díaz demonizing and stigmatizing a responsible sector such as that of the countryside. Our farmers, our farmers, our producers in the primary sector are honest people, they are honest people, they are hardworking people who outdo each other every day to keep on doing their best, creating jobs and making agri-food products reach home in our country and also the rest of the world. [[applause]] It is Spain's first exporting sector. Far from no one to the Spanish countryside, we must applaud him. But ladies and gentlemen, if in any agricultural company in this country there is more work and effort capacity than in the entire Parliamentary Group of Podemos! Can we talk about labor rights? The same party whose secretary of organization, Mr. Echenique, was convicted of not releasing his assistant? Or the same party you've had to return a lawyer you irregularly fired? I said, and I maintain, that the aim of Podemos with this GNP, and with socialist complicity, is to discredit the Spanish countryside; yes, to discredit the countryside, our farmers, our farmers. In February 2020, the new government was launched, in the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law of the food chain, it was already said that there was a lack of security and guarantee in the agricultural sector. Do you know the impact this had on exports and the damage that was done to the Spanish countryside? But there is more, it is that Podemos has said that meat consumption must be banned on Mondays. But there is more, it is that Teresa Rodriguez, of your ideological rope, came to ask that you not buy Andalusian fruits and vegetables because in my land, Andalusia, the vast majority of entrepreneurs in the countryside exploit the temporalists. Curiously, it's the same speech as Bildu. As an Andalusian, it makes me nauseous to listen to a Member of Parliament from Bildu, who does not condemn terrorism, accusing farmers and farmers in my land, Andalusia, of exploiters. Look at you, Mr Bildu spokesman, human rights lessons from you, none, absolutely none. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to improve the conditions of temporary workers seeking employment, why was Spain the last country to regulate their movements and movements during the pandemic, once Europe made them possible? Why, when they passed the royal decree, did they adopt it late and wrong, failing to meet the objectives and deadlines, with the corresponding consequences for the temporalists? The People's Party was the only one to table amendments, and some of them took advantage. We wonder, in the face of such attacks on the countryside, where is the Minister Planas? The more the countryside is lacking, the more cowardly the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. We show our support for the countryside, our support for farmers and farmers, our support for agricultural organizations and we will show it again with a popular government presided over by Pablo Casado. Ladies and gentlemen, don't bite your hand, it gives us food: our farmers and livestock. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u81	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr González Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. For many years now, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate has had among its objectives the fight against job insecurity and the irregular work of foreign citizens intensified in recent years. The purpose of the proceedings is to detect both possible administrative violations in the social order and possible conduct constituting an offence against the rights of workers, as envisaged in the drafting of the new Strategic Plan 2021-2023, in order to adapt the Labour Inspectorate to the current needs of the labour market. As in other sectors of high temporality, the Labour Inspectorate reinforces this objective in the work of the field because of the singularity they present, both because of the temporality, since they occur at certain times of the year - mainly now in spring-summer - and because of their location, focusing on the provinces where agricultural campaigns have the greatest labour impact. The shortness of the agricultural campaigns and the diversity of employers make it necessary to hire many workers for a very short period of time, or a few weeks, or very few days; this particularity is manifested differently according to the type of campaign and the territory in which it is produced. There are high labour needs on these dates, in June, July and August, for bone fruit, pupita fruit, garlic, melon, watermelon or harvest already from mid-August. In short, many agricultural campaigns with high needs. From the role of the Labour Inspectorate in certain agricultural campaigns and from the inspection experience of the past year it can be concluded - I insist, it can be concluded - that irregular practices are minority, as they recognize it can infer from the results of the Labour Inspectorate itself. That is, as could be expected, the vast majority of agricultural employers are, logically, committed to strict compliance with labour legislation and a clear willingness to do things right. It is true that some - a few, very few - do not respect labour rights. They cause much pain and shame and attack a state that guarantees rights and freedoms, such as Spain, and the media resonance is capital. Non-compliances must be prosecuted for a number of reasons. One, by constitutional mandate, which obliges the public authorities to protect workers' rights. Two, because of the imperative ethical and political of the rule of law to safeguard the dignity of people in the face of aggression, abuse and discrimination in the world of work. Three, for compliance with social security regulations. And, four, also and very important - I insist, very important - for the protection of the farmer himself, the entrepreneur himself. And it is that any breach causes two things: on the one hand, unfair competition between entrepreneurs, between farmers, and, on the other, it can cause a negative image in the hiring environment that damages their reputation. It should be remembered that the agri-food sector has increased exports in recent years by more than €57 billion, 5% more than in the last year. Spain is the fourth largest agri-food exporter in the European Union and the eighth largest in the world. Any agri-food product exports not only the quality of the brand Spain but also the dignity and legality as values of the social responsibility of our agri-food sector, contributing to the reputation of our products and, therefore, to the reputation of our country. [[applause]] The brand Spain in general, and in particular the one referring to the high quality of our agri-food products, marks the difference with international competition. Therefore, respect for workers' rights is also and must be a hallmark of our agriculture. The Government's commitment to justice, equality and solidarity is to move towards an efficient and fair labour market that dispels practices of other times, many years ago. Since I have 30 seconds left, I would like to take advantage of all of you, all of you, all of you, the whole House, all of you, as we are talking about agriculture and farmers on the occasion of this GNP, so that we can welcome the agreement reached by the European Union and the United States for the suspension of tariffs over the next five years, which affects olive oil, table olives, citrus fruits and cheese, among many others. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u83	Thank you so much. Mrs Franco Carmona, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u84	No, no, We're preparing a transactional, which we'll send you soon.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u85	Okay. Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the parliamentary group on the declassification of information of the 23-F state budget. [[File number 162/000559]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u86	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the declassification of information from the coup d'état of 23-F. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in law there is an extensive and graphic theory of the validity of the evidence known as the doctrine of the fruit of the poisoned tree. Many of you are jurists of recognized prestige and you will no doubt know that this theory refers to the fact that any evidence obtained by unlawful means cannot be considered valid in court or, in other words, that any evidence that directly or indirectly and by any link is flawed must be declared null and void. Well, in this state - and allow me the metaphor - there is a poisoned tree, the official account of the Transition, and in the eyes of any minimally critical observer the fruits of that account must be considered null, they must be seen as gross deceptions. Also with regard to the events of 23 February 1981. If not, why do you keep it a secret? Having classified the documentation about the 23-F means hiding the truth about the case and denying citizens access to the truth, to history. What's hidden in that documentation that's so important that it needs to be hidden? Why are you hiding? Who's he protecting? Let each one draw his or her well-deserved conclusions. Today my group brings to the House's debate a very simple, very clear proposal that will enable us to clarify who is most concerned about the truth and who is most concerned about protecting the privileges inherited from the last century. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to debate a non-legislative proposal to declassify and publicise all written, audio or video documents that will allow us to know exactly the facts linked to the 23-F coup d'état. What rational and democratic reasons could there be to oppose this? I wish the bench of the extreme right or the extreme right could give me some, but I'm afraid we all know in advance what they're going to vote for and why. We want to make it clear, for no one to have the slightest doubt, that no state lie serves to close wounds. Today, after the 40th anniversary of 23-F, we come here to try to prove definitively the falsehood of one of the most repeated state lies in recent decades, and it is that 23-F was a matter of four ultra-conservative military personnel who, without complicity from any political, social, economic, ecclesiastical and military structure, alone and on their own initiative, decided to try to take over Congress. You'll forgive me, but there's no one to believe this. And if what I'm saying seems foolish to you, declassify the documents and let's check it out. That account of the model transition to democracy is becoming less and less credible; that of sleeping fascist and rising up democrat, so, only intuitively, it sounds like a lie. In fact, when one turns out to be head of state by direct appointment of the dictator, at the outset he would not have the ideal candidate profile to lead a democracy. And of course, someone with that history is tempted to wear a coat of heroism and want to hang the medal of being the savior who stopped the coup d'état of 23-F, at least it would chirre a little. And if what I'm saying seems foolish to you, declassify the documents and let's check it out. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an insult to the truth. The false sweet story built around the events of 23 February 1981 is only endured by the Official Secrets of the State Act, a pre-constitutional and totally opaque law. But every passing day there is a new crack in that containment wall, a new crack in the form of journalistic and historiographical research or in the form of declassification of official reports from third States. However, the Kingdom of Spain stands firm in its unsustainable lie. That's enough. At this point no one who does not live from it can believe that General Alfonso Armada, whose pardon, by the way, did not raise many suspicions on the right, who was the leader of the coup d'état, will not count on the complicity and participation of much of the Francoist economic, political, judicial and military elites who retained their power after the transition. [[applause]] No one can believe that the State - supposedly - has evidence to prosecute more than three thousand people for holding a referendum of independence in Catalonia and that, instead, for an armed eruption - and I repeat, armed - in the Courts there is hardly any evidence against thirty people. No one believes that. I insist that if what I'm saying seems foolish to you, declassify the documents and let's check it out. Finally, I would like to say that this is not an initiative to get a headline. This is a non-legislative proposal that we bring to debate because we believe that it can be adopted and we want it to be adopted. In this House we are several groups not suspected of being part of the regime of 78. For example, my party could not run for the 77 elections with its own acronyms, because it was illegal. You will understand that you do not feel like me the Spanish Constitution to which these elections gave rise or that I feel part of the Lampedusian narrative on which it is based, that of changing everything so that everything remains the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today we have the opportunity to take an important step towards truth and justice. Let's go with us. Let's do it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u88	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Díaz Gómez spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u89	Thank you, President. Esquerra, Bildu and the two branches of Convergence bring here a very interesting proposal to clarify the coup of 23-F. That's what they say. May you present this you may have two intentions. One is scientific intent. As good polytologists you are interested in the impulse that leads to the animus 'golpandi' and, of course, the 23-F is to coupology what the Renaissance to art. Although there are other stellar moments of coup to which I will refer. Therefore, if what you want to see is the evolution of the homo 'golpandis', I teach it to you, it is simple. [[Shows a poster, with three photographs, reading: Homo Golpensis]] What brings companies, Tejero and Puigdemont together? Animus 'knocking' or nationalism. That's it, the investigation's over here. If they're interested in the scientific spirit, it's clear. Another issue is that they really want to shed light on the history of Spain, and here comes our amendment. If your intention is sincere, we have tabled an amendment for you to also work together to clarify a little bit some gloomy episodes that we have in the history of Spain. How can proponents of this non-law proposal cooperate? How can you shed light on the Republican Left of Catalonia? For example, tell us those gloomy episodes in which a faction of his party meets with the Italians of Mussolini. Tell us about it. That affected the history of Spain. Or tell us what the Badia brothers, of the Republican Left, talked about with the Nazis. Nor would it be wrong for them to tell us anything about the gloomy moment of the death penalty that Company signed. I bring you two, but there are hundreds within reach of everyone on social networks. [[samples]] For example, tell us why he shot a deaf religious for teaching Latin or if there is any role in Esquerra that explains why Companys shot the nationalist mayor of Lérida, Joan Rovira i Roure, for celebrating a Reyes ride. It's all perfectly documented. Bring and clarify everyone, in general, the story of gloomy episodes, because I say that clarifying this can also do us all good. Finally, gentlemen of Esquerra, I will tell you that it is not necessary to be alone in the 1930s to clarify gloomy episodes of the history of Spain. Tell us about Carod-Rovira's conversations with ETA in 2004, bring me the papers where he said they were attacked anywhere except in Catalonia. Bring me those papers. This is where our amendment is going. If you bring this and clarify it to us, I vote in favour of your non-law proposal. More stuff. The convergents. I think you can bring things too. You say you want to find Francoist elements in 23-F. Well, there you can help a lot, too, and concretely. Of the 219 Franco mayors who also presented themselves in democracy in Catalonia, one was presented by Esquerra Republicana, but I understand that it would be the branch of Ramón Franco, who was also from Esquerra, the brother of the dictator who later bombarded Barcelona; three were presented by the PSC; ten by the Popular Alliance; twenty-two by the UCD; eighty-eight as independent, and -attentive!-, ninety-five Franco mayors presented themselves by Convergence i Unió. I mean, tell us how this was, bring me the papers, bring me what part of the program or how you took ninety-five candidates directly from the franchise in your ranks, and I will vote in favour. I know that Catalan nationalism has had its flirtations with dictatorships, from promoting Primo de Rivera's coup to prominent nationalist promenbras that financed Franco, but tell us, because there are many things to be clarified. I have left for the end Bildu, who also signs this non-law proposal, because you are the darkest of all and the most able to help us clarify some things. There are 379 unsolved ETA crimes, and the President of Bildu is a terrorist. Let Otegui tell us everything he knows about ETA and we will vote in favour of this burst of light that you ask for in your non-law proposal. Gentlemen of the nationalist parties that sign this non-law proposal, if they want us to know the darkest stages of Spanish history, they have it easy: tell us their lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u91	Dear Vice-President, dear friends and friends, democracy is not based on revenge, it does not want to know history with a desire for revenge, but it is based on forgiveness, conciliation and agreement. It's like the air you need to breathe democracy. But he also needs - he cannot live from memory - the truth, he needs to know the truth and he really needs to have access to the knowledge of historical truth, because if we don't have the truth anything serves us. Here we see his lordships often calling anyone a coup and talking about beatings of anything. We just saw an exercise from the fellow Citizens in which there were hundreds of things that were blows. False, false. Democracy must be based on the truth. The coup d'état - coup d'état, as is known all over the world - is a military uprising against civil power. Saying it's something else is simply lying. There are other kinds of illegalities. Many of those that have been mentioned are all kinds of illegalities, but calling it illegality, criminality and a crime coup d'état is simply perverting language. We didn't get anything out of the lie. We need truth and we need to know the truth, and to know the truth we need to know our history. Do we have enough knowledge of that story? Do we know enough about the 23-F coup d'état? Some may say yes. I was talking to a socialist colleague who told me that there was practically nothing left to know in the closets; perhaps, I am not saying no, but as long as we have official secrecy legislation that is not comparable to that of the rest of the democratic countries in our environment, there will always be suspicion. Thus, there is a very simple way of nullifying all the arguments against the fact that we do not know enough about that coup d'état. What happened in that coup d'état? Something very curious happened. All the coups d'état in this country, as mentioned by the comrade of Citizens, the coup d'état of Primo de Rivera, that of General Franco, that of General Armada, have all been given by the right. But curiously, the last of these coups was not against a left-wing government, but against a right-wing government, a strange thing. And why was it? Let's find out, because from there we're going to have consequences... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u92	One moment, please. Your Honor, one second. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u93	Let's find out what happened, because it's a very important thing. It was a coup d'état that was given to a right-wing government to warn it that it could not be ruled and could not be ruled in that way. That is, to say: From now on it is over that there is a right that recognizes the legitimacy of its political rivals of the left and nationalists; from now on only the uniformist right, the right that is only admitted to it as the legitimate representative of the people, and the others are enemies of the people. That is why we need to know what happened on 23-F, because we still live the consequences of what happened then; because we still have rights that do not admit the legitimacy of political rivals or want to negotiate with them or reach agreements with them. That is the great problem that democracy has in this country. That is why it is so important to know in depth what happened at that time. We need transparency. Democracy requires transparency, it requires running curtains, it requires raising carpets, it requires putting light and tachographs, it requires that we do everything to get to know the historical truth, so that we have access to what really happened. Why? What are the objectives of knowledge? Well, basically, two. The first is to allow the new generations of Spaniards tomorrow to understand that one can be right-wing without the need to hate anyone, without the need to delegitimize anyone, admitting the legitimacy of those who are political rivals and negotiating and agreeing with them. That, which is against what was the coup d'état of 23-F, is very important for the future, for concord and for democracy in this country. On the other hand, it is also very important that we know at the bottom of the letter and follow in every detail what happened on 23-F because it will allow us to understand a strange paradox, what is next. Let us ask any foreign person how it is possible that as many ladies and gentlemen as they are sitting here have no problem in pardoning the person who pulled the tanks out into the street to repress the population violently and have trouble in pardoning a legitimate government that called for a referendum, a popular consultation without the conditions or the requirements of legitimacy, but who did not give any coup d'état; because perverting and deceiving is creating a future of falsehood, a future without democracy. Democracy requires and requires us to know what happened and requires and demands... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u94	Mr. Uriarte, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u95	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group is submitting an amendment to this non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to promote the necessary changes in the Official Secrets Act to declassify and publicize written, audio or video documents that will allow accurate knowledge of the facts associated with the 23-F coup d'état, in accordance with the criteria set out in the new legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the Official Secrets Act of 1968, partially amended in 1978, presents a major inadequacy to the present times, not only because it is pre-constitutional but because it does not meet the needs of a modern democracy such as the Spanish one for the defence and security of the State, as well as the changes that have taken place in the digital society and in the multilateral political context in which our State, our country, operates. The Socialist Group has therefore expressed its support for the reform of the Official Secrets Act in the past legislatures and in the present whenever it has been brought to this House. The Government is therefore drafting a new Official Secrets Act to respond to these demands. Thus, since September 2018, the Ministry of Defence has opened its archives so that they can be studied and known. The coup d'état of 23 February 1981 is one of the most studied events of our recent democratic stage. Those who sink their ideological roots in Francoism wanted to truncate the young Spanish democracy were judged and the political and judicial truth was clarified. However, forty years have passed and citizens have the right to know everything that happened and the whole context of what happened in February 1981 and in the previous months with regard to the most critical event since 1978. A full democracy like ours is obliged to know its recent and less recent past in order not to repeat it, as is the case with the 23-F. Many academics place the failed coup d'état as the element that shapes the end of the transition in prolongation until the 1982 elections. The transparency and rigour of information on these facts is therefore so important. Eliminating shadow zones so that nothing remains in the dark will help generations to come to keep alerts, be alert to the elements that may put democracy at risk at any time. Because there are many ways to attack democracy, to devalue it, to try to undermine institutions for anti-democratic purposes. Those who defend the Constitution of the 78 most interest must demonstrate in the access to information with transparency and to information classified in conditions similar to that of our neighbours. It therefore draws attention to the fact that the People's Party has never expressed its support for reforming the Official Secrets Act. That is why it draws attention to the People's Party's defence of the Constitution, but not the reform of the Official Secrets Act. It is also noteworthy that the PP defends the Constitution and then uses the flag to zaherir more than half of the Spaniards, as happened a few days ago in Piazza Colon. [[Applauds]] Or it draws attention that the PP wants to defend the Constitution and targets the head of state in the political dispute no matter how much he puts at risk the neutrality to which the Crown is constitutionally owed. Or that the PP says it defends the Constitution and stands as a communicator of judgments, of what is and is not constitutional, and therefore does not want to renew the Constitutional Court or the General Council of the Judiciary. All this shows that the People's Party has a problem at the origin with the Constitution, and that is that only 50% of the former People's Alliance voted for the Constitution. In this missing minute I would like to refer to an issue raised by the spokesman for Esquerra. He said the 78's regime is a Lampedusian scumbag. I will ask you, respecting all opinions, not to fail to the truth, please, and above all, and what is worse, not to fail to remember hundreds of thousands of Spaniards and tens of thousands of socialists who were forced into exile, who suffered long years of imprisonment and concentration camps and who were taken their lives by shooting or hunger. Those lives deserve our respect. [[Applauds]] Those lives didn't run away to make a change for nothing to change. Democracy was not given to us. Workers, students and lawyers of Atocha died in the streets of Madrid and other cities of Spain for democracy, not for a Lampedusian cambalache. We have no moral authority to tell Ramón Rubial and Marcelino Camacho that they made a scambalache, because they are examples like no other of defence of the Transition and democracy. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u96	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u97	Thank you, President. Today we present a collective initiative of the CUP, of Bildu, of Esquerra, of Junts per Catalunya, of the Democratic Party and of the BNG to declassify the roles of the 23-F. Certainly, the adoption of such an initiative is good news and it is good news because, as you will know, the relationship between memory and democracy is close. That's why Francoism played with oblivion, and that's why the laws that prevent Francoism from being judged are a pact of silence, such as the Amnesty Act of 1977. Please note that in January of the same year a ruling of the Constitutional Court refused to admit an appeal filed by the Workers'Commissions for the investigation of torture to its founders and the appeal alleged that the Amnesty Act was sufficient and therefore that torture could not be investigated. Declassifying the 23-F is good news, but it does not help to put an end to the frenzy that is still pulsating over the low funds of this Spain that you so much want. The Professor of Constitutional Law, Pérez Royo, speaks of the Spanish Transition as the Bourbon Restoration in a democratic way. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the end of Francoism is to repeal the Amnesty Act of 1977. That historical memory associations have had to go to Argentina so that a judge can investigate deaths and murders. To put an end to Francoism is to remove it from the high judiciary and to clarify the responsibilities of Spanish judges with the tortures of Francoism. You will know that the tortures of Francoism were not as in Chile or as in Argentina the thing of the military; in Spain it was the judges, the same judges in the high judiciary who from night to day went from being Francoists to being judges of the famous Spanish democracy. This is to put an end to Francoism. To put an end to the franchise is to get it out of the boards of directors of the big companies of IBEX. That was the formula with which many Francoist ministers were recycled. And to end the Francoism is also to question the story that the monarchy saved democracy on 23 February. The PSOE spoke of transparency. This is not an office, let's say, of the Administration. We need responsibilities, not just information. We need those responsible on 23 February to be judged on the responsibility of the monarchy for the transfer of Francoism to democracy, and we need judges responsible, even if half are no longer, for the torture and deaths that are still beating in the covets of their beloved Spain. [[Applauds]] Because ending Francoism goes beyond making a television series like Tell Me, rewriting that story of the happy Transition. To end Francoism is to question the factual powers that still rule in the Spanish state. Ending Francoism implies justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, because the accounts of his beloved Spain still weep the dead, are full of dead; dead who need someone to name them, name them and pass through the court for their political responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u98	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Group, Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u99	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you, President. In the first point of the afternoon we talked about articles of the Criminal Code that came from Francoism and now we are also talking about another Francoist law. It seems, as Gramsci said, that the old does not finish dying and the new has not just been born. That is why we see too many vestiges in the laws so that this can be approved for a full democratic state. That is why the Spanish State is the only Western country in which official secrets can be eternal. In this country researchers and historians look forward to the declassification of documents from the British Government or the U.S. Government in order to gain access to information about what happened here, which here is forbidden to reveal. They will tell me that all states keep secrets, of course, but no serious, modern and democratic country allows them to be so forever as it is thanks to this Francoist law that democracy has not changed, the Law on Official Secrets. This Congress has for years been blocking or avoiding the reform of this Francoist law, which covers with a cloak the Civil War, the fight against ETA and also prevents shed light on the 23-F. There have been quite a few previous proposals; I think the last one was last year and I would say that it is paralyzed right now. The Government said that a commission would be set up to draft a legislative text that would approve the law to that of the countries in the environment and that would meet the parameters of the international organizations to which it belongs. We continue to wait, and there is one issue that should not be forgotten. The Council of Europe in its principles on national security and the right to information expressly states that there is a prevailing public interest in the dissemination of information on serious human rights violations or widespread violations of international law and that such information cannot be classified for reasons of national security under any circumstances. We could talk about the LAG, we could talk about the Zabala case - we should take it into account - but today it's time to talk about the 23-F and its secrets. Forty years have passed and one story has been told to us year after year. The story is this: the transition to water, the economy was wrecked, terrorism and the insatiable peripheral nationalisms endangered the unity of Spain and a few nostalgics of Franco decided to liquidate the incipient democracy, but they did not lologge because Juan Carlos de Borbón confronted them and imposed respect for the rule of law; we already have the balanced and balanced hero, the king. It is a story that seeks to identify with this interpretation of history and in the background legitimize the transition model and its consequence, that is, the current constitutional regime. Thus in this ritual repetition year after year has been created the collective myth, the myth of the modelling Transition and more exactly the myth of the involutionist coup that the king prepared. So it can be said that yes, the events of 1981 were a thread, because the official version turned the Bourbon designated by Franco to lead the post-Franchism into a democratic paladin. It is true that there have been testimonies and documents that have flourished, but most of the time as a result of grudges and revenges in the world of Spanish secret services; all those documents, all that information has confirmed the analysis of those who defined that from the first moment as a self-attack. The question is that today the mantle of silence persists; forty years later the obstinacy persists in concealing from the citizens the reality of those facts. It is extremely worrying because it shows the will to continue to resort to the myth, and what is much worse, every year it reminds us of the resistance to face a true rupture with Francoism. We shall vote in favour of this declassification. Ladies and gentlemen, where there are secrets, there is no control and there is no democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u100	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u101	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I do not see much tension in this Chamber with the subject that it is, which means that this GNP has very little, if any, chance of moving forward. The first thing I think about is that next week is going to be a year, a year, since the proposed law of the Basque Nationalist Group was taken into consideration to change the Francoist law of 1968 of official secrets. It has already been a year and the amendment deadlines are being extended over and over again. That is why I was surprised to hear the Socialist representative face, yes, quite rightly, that the PP has never wanted to amend the Official Secrets Act, but, well, until the opposite is demonstrated, here, at the present time, the majority that the representatives of the Government have in the Bureau - well, representatives of the same political group as those in the Government - again and again extend the deadlines. Which means they won't have much will either. However, I think I should be hopeful that if this does not come out today, it will come out very soon, because, according to the Argentine media, an important news has happened that has not been given much air here, and it is that the President of the Spanish Government, on a recent visit, has signed an agreement with the Argentine President to declassify or to provide the classified roles of the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the cables, in order to be able to clarify what happened in the Argentine dictatorship. And I say that if it is possible to declassify roles to clarify the Argentine dictatorship, which seems to me very commendable, logically, the coherent thing would be that here too, to begin with, it would be done by adopting a new law and that, periodically, they would declassify themselves. But it can also be done in a timely manner, because, even if it says the proposal of no written law by the presenters: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government of the Spanish State to make the necessary legislative changes to declassify and publicize the written documents, sound from 23-F, there is no need to modify anything in the law in order for this to come to light. This is a smooth, simple and simple decision of the Council of Ministers; point. We do not need to vote here on a change of law. If there was a desire to clarify not only the Argentine dictatorship, but also the coup d'état of 23-F or other points around those dates, the Spanish Government could, plainly and plainly, declassify that documentation or declassify all the documentation for that period. I hope that one day there will be a law acceptable to those in northern Europe and that it will be a statute of deadlines. But do you know where we're gonna have the problem when we finally discuss it? We will have it, precisely, in the transitional provisions, in those of: well, okay, we disqualify thirty years, thirty-five years or forty years, but, wait, on the 23-F we will give it a moratorium, or this other, well, when this circumstance occurs, or we will pull back with the years. You will see how the problem we are not going to have in how the law has to be drafted, how it has to work, but with the transitional ones. Anyway, we're talking here about lifting the 40th anniversary of Francoism. There are many things that should have been raised as well. By the way, we've been given 40 years by some of the signatories! What a forty-year-old! Like to claim some things here now! You have had gloomy stages - said the citizen representative to the signatory groups - and need to be clarified. And I compared it to this one, to the 23-F. Is 23-F a gloomy stage? No, man, no; if 23-F is the glory of Spain, it is the best of Spain, it is the victory of democracy, it is what the monarchy needs now, at such complicated times, when a new account has appeared in Switzerland. What happened to the king's role? If everything went so well, everything was so wonderful and everything was so right, that's what the monarchy would need now, that those papers were opened and that they were given light to shine their performance, their role and everything that happened. It's over, President...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u102	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mr. Esteban. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: It's just that I'm finishing up]] Yes, but your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u103	Thank you, President. Six sovereignist forces present this GNP because we not only want to know; we believe that society has the right to know and we want justice to be done. Today we knew that the corrupt Bourbon has an account in Andorra, another further evidence also that corruption in the Head of State is widespread. In spite of this, the main political forces in this House are committed to the failure to investigate; they seem to have found in concealment the only formula to try to save an anachronistic and corrupt monarchy. In these same keys one can understand the obscurantism about the actual scope of the coup d'état of 23-F and especially the role of Juan Carlos de Borbón because it is clear that no one in this House believes the sweetened story that with his televised intervention at one o'clock in the morning, seven hours later, saved democracy. On the contrary, throughout these years the signs, information and data that place Juan Carlos de Borbón behind the coup plot grew. Don't you think so? Declassify...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Your time's up. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth will make you free. John 8, 32. That was a coup d'état, really, with tanks. Mr. Gil Lazarus, do you remember the tanks? That was a coup d'état, the tanks for Valencia. Forty years have passed, we are already carved and can already tell us the truth, do not tell us that the children come from Paris or that the Kings are the parents. We want to know, for example, the role of that king, who now knows that he has deceived, deceived and lied, and who have sold us as the one who saved Spain. Do not tell us over and over again the same story of that wonderful Transition. If everything was so wonderful, if the king had a decisive role, we want to know, we want to know the role of the king, we want to know who were involved. This country has grown bigger, this country needs clarity and in this country, as Jesus Christ said, the truth will make us truly free. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] I have no face, I have and I tell the truth.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u106	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I think it wasn't you, Mr. Baldoví, the face thing, it wasn't you, I think it was me. Mr Boadella Esteve, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. On 23 February it was a coup d'état, as other speakers here in the rostrum have already said. People with machine guns come in here, and I assure you that it was no rapporteur of a law or any Member presenting a proposal or any draft, they entered and carried out a vote transcendent for this state; they entered and shot the Chamber, they kidnapped the deputies, they took the tanks out on the street, they entered the radio and public television and they broadcast military marches on the radio. That was a coup d'état and not October 1, 2017, and I have to remind you because from time to time you still come out with this song. The 23-F was a coup d'état, not October 1, 2017. You have blown up democracy, this democracy that you now say is a full democracy. So full is that today it seems that he does not dare to declassify those papers. It turns out that forty years later this full democracy does not dare to declassify all that documentation. I'm gonna make you a little confession. I have read the book of President Rajoy of A Better Spain. I recommend it. Some might learn something. He points out that the answer of October 1 was a success of the rule of law: disobedience, sentences, challenges, the law in the courts... It says: the rule of law did not fail. The 23-F rule of law failed, through here came the Civil Guard with the machine guns. Or maybe it didn't fail and that's why we can't know the truth. In your hands, in your fingers, in the vote you make today, you will say whether this is a full democracy or not, whether you can look in the mirror and analyze your past or whether, on the other hand, you still have to remain in silence and in classified roles. Gentlemen, the 23-F papers must be declassified and declassified now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Group is going to vote against this non-legislative proposal and, as Mrs Telechea invited us to explain the reasons, I will explain them to you. It's basically for two reasons. First, because we are not prepared to endorse with our vote the true intention underlying this initiative, which is once again to attack the exemplary work of the Spanish democratic transition, which is once again to question the great historic pact of national reconciliation, democracy and freedom that the Spanish signed in the 1978 Constitution. [[Applauds]] It was enough to listen to your ladies and gentlemen from this rostrum to confirm what I am saying from the perspective of my group, and of course it was not necessary either to listen to it because it was enough to read that pamphlet which you have introduced in the proposal as a statement of reasons for having the matter sufficiently clear. And secondly, we are not going to vote in favour of this initiative because we are not going to become accomplices to an enormous defachation, to the defachation that this initiative entails. I point out, apart from the fact that this initiative is signed by Bildu, that is, by a political force headed by a terrorist who was a member of the terrorist organization ETA and who is now trying to talk about democracy and give us lessons in ethics. [[applause]] But yes, the defachability that implies that you come here, Mrs Telechea, you and some of your adventure partners to try to lecture on the coup of February 23, when you are the authors of the coup of October 2017 in Catalonia, when you still remain in the sense of that coup and announce that you are willing to give us, if you allow it, that you will, without a doubt, be allowed the weakness of a president without scruples who has cheated on the Spaniards, because he said that he would never rule with Podemos and govern with Podemos; because he said that he will never agree with Esquerra and Bildu and is handed over to them; because he said that you would never be granted to the couplists, the pardons and those pardons are about to be granted; pardons that are a real insult to the separation of powers, to the rule of law, to justice, to the equality of all Spaniards before the law, to national dignity and, especially, to that great part of Catalan society, to be held to be separat. [[applause]] So don't come with monstroses. [[Applauds]] The Spaniards know everything we need to know, everything that is true of February 23rd. Now, what the Spaniards don't know and we demand to know are all the facts that compete in the coup that you have given and continue to give. That is, we do not know and want to know whether, for example, you had any support or contact with any foreign power or how much public money you stole from the Catalans to finance that coup or whether the CDRs were willing to give a qualitative coup and become a terrorist gang. The Spaniards do know that, because of their blackmail and pressure, Sánchez will grant some pardons, but what we do not know either, and we demand to know, is if after those pardons he will continue the wheel of the submission of Sánchez and his Government to his claims. That is, if Sanchez is going to sit down and negotiate personally with Junqueras; or if Sanchez is going to accept a referendum of self-determination, disguise him as they disguise him, call him what they call him; or if Sanchez is willing to have the reform of the sedition crime serve so that Puigdemont can return without going through prison; or if Sánchez is willing to sell the historic conceptual unity of Spain to become an idiotic entelequia called a nation of nations. That's what we demand to know. And that's why we're going to vote that no, with a very high head, on behalf of millions of tired Spaniards, loyal Spaniards, patriots, democrats, Spanish without labels that they want today, through this rostrum and my voice, to leave them a very clear message: Spain, neither shut up nor give up. Spain, don't shut up or give up. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u110	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Callejas Cano has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party is and will be in favour of transparency and knowledge. Proof of this is that the People's Party Government chaired by Mariano Rajoy launched the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance. But the People's Group is also committed to responsibility and, if I may, to maximum responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something very serious and we cannot contaminate it with a partisan ephemeride. We are talking about the secrets of the Spanish State, the most sensitive information, which affects national security and relations with other countries. With deep respect for the freedom of those Members who have signed this non-legislative proposal, which we are now debating, I must say on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party that this initiative seems to us to be a real misunderstanding for three reasons. First, because this issue is not a priority right now for the citizens who are seeing us. It is not on 23 February 1981 that they care, but on 23 June, 23 July or 23 August, but on 2021, here and now; whether they will be able to maintain their jobs, whether the self-employed will be able to open the blind tomorrow, whether the population will be able to be vaccinated, with what vaccine mark and with what guarantees, or whether the families will be able to pay for the receipt of the light at the end of the month. That's what the Spaniards care about today. Second. This non-legislative proposal is a lack of respect for this Parliament, since Esquerra Republicana wants to jump to the toaster the proposed law to reform the Official Secrets Act that has launched the PNV and that is in the process of amending the article. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, if you want improvements, please submit amendments, bring ideas, dialogue. In short, they respect the rules of play of the General Courts and even more so when you voted in favour of taking this bill into consideration on 23 June 2020. What happened to them? Have you stopped supporting the PNV? And the third reason this initiative is a waste of money is because it's chaos. Many of those who have spoken here have hidden it, but of the six signatories of this non-legislative proposal, a week ago two parliamentary groups, the Plural Group and EH Bildu, got rid of this initiative and left the Republican Left alone and the MP of the CUP Joint Group. If you have not reached a consensus among yourselves, how do you intend to get it from the rest of the House? Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group believes that it is necessary to have a new law on official secrets or a law on the protection of classified information, as we proposed to be called in one of the twenty-five amendments that we tabled in the 2018 process to adapt it to the international terminology. I would like the spokesman for the Socialist Group to know that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled 25 amendments. That is, we are in favour of amending the law. And since we are a party of government, we want to commit ourselves to a calm, sensible debate that must address the level of classification and also that there is no automatic declassification, but that we take into account exceptions by the nature of the matter, the actors involved or the countries at stake, but also regulate the competent bodies and procedures, modernise and centralize data custody and its digitization, preserve the principle of reciprocity between countries and something very important, take into account the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights. Finally, something very dangerous in this GNP: doubts have been raised about the performance of the Royal House. I must say that the Crown was and is the one who has done the most to safeguard our democracy and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u112	Thank you so much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Telechea and Mrs Lozano, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u113	Yes, President, we accept the amendment tabled by the Socialist and United Group We can.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u114	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, as the President has reported on the Board of Spokesmen, that today we have a long plenary session; it is expected to conclude at around 11 p.m. There will be a total of some 90 speeches that we will be holding throughout the plenary. If each and every one of these ninety interventions apply a few seconds more than they have planned, we are talking about that instead of eleven o'clock at night we could go out around eleven and a half at night, so we are going to remain strict with the fulfillment of times.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u115	We are now discussing the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group into the unconstitutionality of the laws passed by the Basque and Navarra Parliaments. For the defence of the motion, the author of the initiative, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u116	Thank you, President. Today we are bringing to this House an initiative that calls for something quite logical and deeply democratic: that the Spanish Government respect the laws that the Basque and Navarro parliaments pass by majority without resorting to their suspension through the Constitutional Court. And I say that it is logical because they are representatives of our citizens, our parliaments, who, with the legitimacy that the votes have conferred on them, approve these laws, and I say that it is deeply democratic because it is the existing majorities in these parliaments that propose, debate and approve the public policies to be developed, the majorities dictated by Basque citizenship, legitimate and democratic majorities. Here, in this Congress, we are used to hearing that this government is not legitimate, that it is not democratic, that the majorities that allowed it are not acceptable, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, are revolting, and rightly so, every time you listen to these arguments and accuse the right-wings of denying the legitimacy of any government that is not led by them, just as we do all the people in this House who respect the word and the decision of the citizenry with their votes. They demand respect for their Government and the progressive majorities that exist in this House and yes, we too, but they do not care to lack that same respect and deny legitimacy when the majorities of our parliaments and the decisions they make do not like them. Your Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is legitimate and its decisions, endorsed by the majority of this House, are also legitimate, of course. So why aren't those of other parliaments? Why do you, despite the right, ask us for support to move forward, but do not allow us to move forward? The answer - as I told Minister Iceta last week - cannot be other than the guardianship and control that this state, the government has the color it has, exercises and wants to exercise over Basque citizenship and its institutions. This is the underlying conflict and this is the solution: real bilateral relationship of equal to equal, respect and recognition; a dialogue solution. One example is the issue of Navarre's pensions. Perhaps someone has the temptation to set it as a positive example; Minister Iceta was about to do so at last week's inquiry, but basically what that agreement says, that allusion to the agreement, is that Nafarroa, Navarra, will not be able to supplement his pensions, just study the situation, directly attacking the fiscal capacity that Navarra has and by which these pensions are today supplemented. By the way, I bring this issue - that of decent pensions - because thanks to the push of the forces of change of Navarre the protection and dignity of pensions is greater in Navarre than in the rest of the State, so they cannot sell as a positive thing to prevent the exercise of their own competences and abilities because it is not, and once in a while they fall into centralistic tics. The last example is the Catalonia Rentals Act. We are talking about progressive social and economic laws, and this being the most progressive government in history, how is it understood that they are trying to curb these advances in Basque society? As I know that someone will appeal to the figure of the arbitrator in this matter, he advanced me and pointed out to them that the Constitutional Court will never be a neutral arbitrator. It is a bilateral relationship with respect as a basis for what must be established, and for those who do not know it reported that the motion we bring here today is part of an agreement of the Basque Parliament in 2018, agreement that was approved by PNV, Euskal Herria Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. At that time, Rajoy ruled and all these parties denounced the Government's interference through resources and called for an end to interference. Is this government going to behave like Rajoy's? Are they going to act the same as the right one did? It is time to open ways of dialogue and agreement that respect our institutions and, ultimately, the will of Basque society to expand social, economic, civil, linguistic or cultural rights. It is time to respect that Euskal Herria, his society and his institutions want to build a future based on more rights, more freedoms and better living conditions. Today we do not ask them to give us permission to take steps to improve the lives of Basques and Basques, but to respect our social achievements from now on and, in any case, take our steps as an example so that in this State the social and working majority can also benefit from them. Instead of stifling, appealing, blocking and nullifying social improvements, let us make them possible here too. This is our demand and at the same time our offer, as I said at the beginning deeply logical and democratic. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u117	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u118	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by making some clarifications to address this issue with some rigour and not with populist proclamations or ideas. When we talk in this case of unconstitutionality, of conflicts between various levels of competition, the first thing to say is that it is common practice in any composite State, whether a federal State such as the German State, or a regional State such as the Italian State, that we encounter competitive conflicts. In most of these States it is generally constitutional justice that resolves these conflicts. That being said, it is true that in the Spanish State there are certain, I would say, defects of origin in the Constitution itself. Why? Because it designed a competitive division between the state and the rather complicated autonomous communities, it is the so-called list system, where there are too many difficulties to clarify some concepts: what is an exclusive, competitive competition, what are the bases, etc. [[The lady]] In addition, there is a certain lack of confidence in this issue, and that is true, which from the outset has been affected by the Constitution's constitution towards political autonomy and autonomous communities. There was a certain exercise there, it is true, of wanting to safeguard that political autonomy of the autonomous communities. Moreover, we have a deficit - we have seen it in the pandemic - of the existence of modern bodies of collaboration and cooperation designed for dialogue and co-governance. Nor has the Constitutional Court and some Governments collaborated to improve this system; on the contrary, the Constitutional Court has not been an exemplary body for the decisions taken, on many occasions through a partisan ideology. On the other hand, it must also be said that some Governments have used - or, I would say, abused - these unconstitutional remedies more by pursuing political ends that pursue the defence of the Constitution, the legal order or the general interest. A very clear example, in which I am not going to stop because it is not going to give me time, is the appeal of unconstitutionality made by the Government to the Statute of Catalonia and the consequent judgment of the Constitutional Court, which I believe was a bomb on the same line of flotation as the State of Spanish autonomies. Likewise, and I also want to highlight it, no public power, no autonomous community - be it Basque, Navarra, Andalusian - can regulate those issues on which it has no competence. No one can skip the regulatory framework because respect for that framework is the only guarantee that citizenship has in the face of arbitrariness and abuse. Respect for that rule of law is a basic issue in any democratic State, because here there is an important question, when is an action that does not respect that framework of coexistence that citizens have been granted democratically acceptable? Who decides? That's where we got into some pretty dangerous terrain. Therefore, it is not so much a matter of not resorting to the Constitutional Court state laws or autonomous laws - that is a guarantee that we must always have minority forces and opposition in any parliamentary body - but that this instrument is well used, especially when lauding the Government, because those rules can be suspended. The aim must always be to protect the general interest, the rights of citizens and not other party interests. With a look at the future, our amendment has two very basic ideas to start with, let us say, that new stage. First, to bet on dialogue by ratifying the commitment to seek agreements that avoid such recourse to the courts, to also try agreements once the lawsuit has been filed and would also insist on reviewing those remedies, those that affect the quality of life of the citizens of those territories, and I am referring to the Rents Act. Secondly, a serious commitment is needed for self-government, for the full development of autonomous statutes - in this case Basque - and for the promotion of cooperation and dialogue between the central Government and the Governments of Euskadi and Navarre on a bilateral basis. Eskerrik asko. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u120	Thank you, President. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. He presents EH-Bildu a motion in which he speaks - I open quotes - that in more than forty years the sovereignty and self-government of our Basque and Navarra institutions has been systematically attacked. Forty years, they say, in which Basque society has been denied its social, cultural, political and economic rights. I, Your Honor, deny you the greatest. First of all, you know that today Euskadi is - we are - a reference for many autonomous communities in all those rights. You sometimes have a permanently victimistic speech, that false Basque mythology that Madrid denies us progress in rights. We have the highest standards in self-government. [[The Lord]] He speaks in his motion of guardianship by successive Spanish governments and political control. He says that legitimate representatives of Basque society are denied the ability to determine public policies. Public policies such as those currently being developed by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia and the Socialist Councillors, or those to which the Basque Socialist Party contributed under very difficult circumstances? Two examples, Osakidetza and the Basque public school, developed by Fernando Buesa and José Ramón Recalde. [[Applauds]] Look, the lehendakari Patxi López, Odón Elorza, Daniel Senderos, myself, the Basque socialists and the Basque socialists also represent Basque citizenship and we are convinced that Euskadi is an autonomous community within a rule of law; competitively it has all the guarantees. The rule of law does not prevent plurinationality or self-government or the best service to the interests of Euskadi, Navarra or any autonomous community; on the contrary, it strengthens legal guarantees. Moreover, always with socialist governments and, of course, with President Pedro Sánchez the transfers - I remind him of the last one in prison matters - and co-governance have been present; seventeen conferences of presidents in the last year and a half, compared to those convened by Mariano Rajoy in seven years. In addition, the quota, which is the largest bilateral relationship between the Government and the Autonomous Government and endorsed by the Courts. Mrs Aizpurua, if - as you say in the motion - there were interferences in the powers attributed to the Basque and Navarra chambers, I understand that those chambers would go to court. I believe, Your Honor, that you have confused the subject of the motion. Some data: with the government of President Zapatero six appeals were submitted to Basque and Navarra laws; with the government of Mariano Rajoy, twenty-four appeals; with President Pedro Sánchez, four appeals. Since President Pedro Sánchez came to the government more than two thirds of the discrepancies have ended in agreement and not in resources. This parliamentary group is, of course, in favour of dialogue, agreements, consensus, and we also advocate for trying agreements once the demands have been made, and that is our amendment. Yesterday, Minister Iceta signed a new agreement to avoid resorting to the Constitutional Court of Navarra's Foral Law on General Budgets, and appeals have already been withdrawn: Basque law against police abuse or universal health ship. But if the issues are not resolved through the agreement, the Government does have an obligation to appeal, always proportionally; as do the autonomous communities. If the legal services of the Government of Spain or the Council of State consider that the legislation violates the competence framework - which can be reviewed, but which is what it is - the political, legal and moral obligation of the Government if no agreement is reached is to appeal; if not, it would be committing an offence. And, of course, there is no legal coverage for a government to withdraw what is already in court proceedings. I ask you, Mrs Aizpurua, to distinguish between the subjects and the times; to distinguish between a PP government that prioritizes the judicial process and this government that does not hide in the robes; among those who preferred to bring in an endless amount of resources and this government that works for the agreements, and the data support it. It distinguishes between a government that did not and did not let it do so and that does not now hold its shoulder and this progressive, federalist government that is committed to dialogue, collaboration and shared governance. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u121	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said once again: over the past 40 years, the right to the Basque Autonomous Community, Basque citizenship and the citizenship of Navarre has been denied. As you well know, the only rights denied to Basque, Navarra and Spanish citizens as a whole were those that made the ages killing all those who did not think like you. [[Applauds]] Those were the rights that have been denied and that cannot be recovered because these people cannot return. Those are the rights. From there, you voted as president of Sánchez and the first collegiate decision made by the government of President Sánchez was to appeal a Navarra law. The first decision. Therefore, less wolves and having it placed as a condition. You supported Mrs Chivite as President of Navarre, what have you done about a foreign law appealed by the Government of Spain? Nothing, kneeling before Sanchez and saying yes to everything. So, less wolves with self-government. You don't want self-government, you want sovereignty that's not the same. Sovereignty resides in the whole of the Spanish people; in Navarre we want foral self-government, of course; with loyalty to Spain, of course; without anyone wanting to include us in another autonomous community. We have self-government, as you well know; we have our tax system, our economic agreement and all laws, including those which establish the first additional provision of the Constitution. You want to force us, to talk to Madrid, to pass through Vitoria, and that never, we will not allow the majority of shipwrecks, because they can vote and will not do so. Therefore, less come here to talk about self-government because for you the objective is, first, that Navarra joins the Basque Autonomous Community and, second, from there do the same thing that you did in Catalonia. Obviously, with the Navarro people they will not count for that, therefore, less wolves with self-government because in sight they are still handed over to the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u123	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u124	Thank you, President. I don't have much time. We support the motion, but I shall take the opportunity to speak only on one issue on which I would like to concentrate and address myself in particular in the middle of the Chamber that forms the Spanish Government. It is very serious that the Spanish Government has decided today to resort to the Catalan rental law. He threatened to suspend and now it seems that only resorting is better; it is also a mistake to defend it as a change to better. It is very serious that this law has been used because it is a social law, because it is a law that already proved to work - it has been in force for eight months and rents have already fallen - and because it is a law that responds to a majority of Parliament and a social majority. But, in addition, this decision by today's Council of Ministers disassembles two of its favourite arguments to attack independence. The first, that we always end up agreeing with the right and that every progressive option in Catalonia passes through the PSC-PSOE. Don't make me laugh. This independenceist majority in Parliament, together with In Comú Pomera, is the one that has responded to the housing movement by approving this law, and it is you, lords of the PSOE and of Unidad Podemos, who have brought it to the Constitutional. And the second argument that disassembles is that we only care about symbolic issues and not real problems, which flags don't feed. Look, flags don't feed, but the Constitution doesn't pay rent either. That is to say, it is a question that is at the root of the problem of the rental bubble and yet you have prioritized a certain interpretation of the Constitution by which this should be repealed. Either this interpretation of the Constitution, or they are so against the regulation of rents that they will not only include it in its law, but try to ensure that no parliament can include it in its laws. You are prioritizing is a certain interpretation of the Constitution by resorting to the Rents Act, and it is a remedy that should be withdrawn. If they do not, they will not be facing just the Catalan housing movement, they will not be facing just the parliamentary majority that made this law, they will be facing the alliance of both and the alliance of this Law with a broad sector of Catalan society, 4000 entities supported this law. We are going to defend this law... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u125	Your time is up, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u126	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Nationalist Party has been denouncing since the dawn of this democratic time, with its institutional and social presence in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Navarra Forum, the lack of respect for Basque and Navarra self-government, which results in the full - even today - non-development of its basic institutional rules and the very high level of competition that the exercise of its self-government entails when public policies of differential content are manifested, even in matters classified as exclusive, although we have also closed agreements. Now Bildu joins. We do not know what could have been, even if it were supposed to be, if Bildu's sensitivity in Basque and Navarra societies had not been so many years of confrontation, and even more serious things, and had been incorporated much earlier, as most Basque and Navarra society demanded, to a impulse of life, to the construction and defense of self-government and of Basque and Navarra institutions. In any case, we welcome it and welcome the change. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the characteristics of the autonomous state is its high conflictivity, unmatched if we compare it with the model used as an inspiration, Germany, and without the face of thinning. Its causes are varied and structural, for example, the counter-conception of political actors, from unitaries and centralists to sovereignists, such as ours, through decentralizing visions of different scope; also, the lack of guarantees for the prevention of competitive conflicts that for Euskadi must be based on national recognition, bilaterality and the pact, and down to something more everyday, on the very conception that is based on the central powers of the State. On the one hand, they are a decisive determinant of the material scope of the policies of the autonomous communities, and on the other hand, by not having established general or specific parameters of the Constitutional Court to determine and narrow down the scope of the basics, the State legislature enjoys the freedom to shape its criteria, without hindrance, by progressively absorbing all the regulations and arriving, increasingly, at the stage of implementation. All this enhanced by European integration, by the various economic crises and now, on the occasion of the COVID pandemic, with all kinds of health, economic and social measures, even with the same architecture and management of the Recovery and Resilience Funds, as we have seen these days. Thus, in determining the basics in each subject, but also in each subject, the State can go through the entire normative cycle: law, decree, order. It may include all kinds of provisions: substantive, organizational and procedural. It can even be projected on execution, as I told you, more and more widely. It is not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that the bases so often articulated find our rejection both because they narrow our legislative space and because they prevent the adoption of their own public policies. The bases thus understood and practiced make the autonomic legislator a weak legislator, whose normative products are transformed into useless matter and with only competence to regulate the most nimous aspects of each matter, as I have almost literally quoted Professor Caamaño, former Minister of Justice. All the contrary to the political autonomy, which is not administrative, which proclaims the Constitution and the historical rights that are protected and respected in the additional provision and in the updated Basque Statute and the Navarro enhancement. In short, it is not just a matter of dialogue as the minister proposed after laying the foundations, but of building these in a different way. As long as it does not change, conflictivity will not diminish and the Spanish territorial model will continue to be recognized as an autonomous jurisdictional state. We will support the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u127	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u128	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bildu Parliamentary Group is bringing us here today a motion, which is the umpteenth nationalist initiative to take advantage of and take away the obvious weakness of the government, but its stated intention to remain in the Moncloa at the cost of concessions of all kinds to the nationalists who support it. We do not know whether they consider it or not on this occasion, but, in any case, it is difficult to hear the arguments of the socialists here today when with the other hand they are making even worse concessions to the nationalists who support them. It seems that it should not cause too much debate between any democrat, that is, that the Constitutional Court can arbitrate the powers of the administrations in order to avoid mismatches between them, the same as a complex and decentralized system such as Spanish, is brought to debate here. This matter has already been brought by the Basque Parliamentary Group recently and we also recall in its day that the Constitutional Court has that power recognized in the Constitution, that of determining whether the rules, laws or drafts of statutory reform are in conformity with the Constitution. The Constitution, nationalists, is not an imposition, it is the guarantee of the rights and freedoms that we all enjoy; the imposition is what is outside the Constitution, such as what happened in Catalonia in 2017. That is why only when nationalist discourses have been normalized can it be understood as a repression that demands the norms to conform to the Constitution. Here separatism has not only Podemos as an ally, but also the Socialist Party on this issue, because despite what the spokesman for the Socialist Group has said, I fully remember the President of the Generalitat Montilla leading a demonstration against a ruling of the Constitutional Court. Don't forget that and don't contradict your arguments. What is behind this motion is the challenge of the constitutional system and its democratic functioning, thus trying to confront the courts and the popular will, with the sole aim of feeding the discourse of the nationalist aggravation. It is a classic for what I see - although I know more about Catalonia - also in the Basque Country that the territories governed by nationalist forces legislate by invading competences on sensitive matters in order to be able to blame the State and the Constitutional Court for wanting to stop projects that improve the lives of citizens; they legislate sensitive matters on which they cannot legislate to encourage aggression, it is their only will. You really know that those laws, as they cannot be otherwise, by invading a jurisdiction that is reserved for the State, will be declared unconstitutional, but that gives you the same. Some of the things Bildu tells us in his motion: that the interposition of resources of unconstitutionality and conflict is a re-centralizing position. To re-centralize would be for the State to assume powers that correspond to a community, but when the court decides that an autonomous community has no competence to re-centralize or remove anything from the community, it is that the community did not have it. He also said that in recent years more than thirty Navarra and Basque laws had been appealed by the Government. By the way, you always speak on behalf of the Basque Country and Navarra and then complain about the invasion of competences, there are more Basques and Basques and Navarras and Navarras than you. What they also forget to mention is that in the same period the Basque and Navarro governments have also challenged more than thirty laws. What is this? This can be done and what the state doesn't? These resources used by their Governments are less important to them, because what they seek is not to defend democracy or, much less, the rule of law. I repeat this: the arbitrator, the Constitutional Court, is not ideological or a plebiscite between the State and autonomy, but a necessary system for clarifying competences. Our competition regime is complex, and in Citizens we believe that it needs to be improved and that we need to clarify who is responsible for what to reduce that litigation that we believe is avoidable. On the premise of what you seek with this motion, we can do nothing but vote against it, because this is nothing but an ideological pamphlet against the functioning of our democratic institutions and our own Constitution. To give them reason, they already have the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u130	I believe that the People's Party, to a great extent, and the Socialist Party, to a lesser extent, have always suffered from a persistent disorder, and forgive the daring to invent the word, I believe they have'recurrence' incontinence. The State's remedies, conflicts and challenges against the autonomous communities amount from 1980 to 2018, nothing more and nothing less than 1214 cases, 226 conflicts, 381 appeals and 607 challenges; this morning, against a just law, a progressive law and a law that protects the weakest. There have been challenges, conflicts and remedies in all autonomous communities. There are liberals who come up here and are very liberal, but they do not accept things that they would accept, for example, in the United States. And I set the example of Valencian civil law. We were an autonomous community that for more than 500 years had a civil right, and by just right of conquest was taken from us. What would be normal in the United States, that is, to legislate on the matrimonial economic regime, the separation of Valencian property or the regime of Castilian profits, the family custody relations or the law of de facto unions...You will tell me what harm we do with this and what little liberals are some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u131	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u132	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion under discussion states that in the last ten years more than thirty laws passed by the Basque and Navarro parliaments have been appealed by the Spanish Government to the Constitutional Court. We have counted in the last twelve years up to fifty-two laws passed by the Parliament of Catalonia that have been challenged by the Government, always with suspension of effects; once every three months, a genuine mutilation of the political autonomy of Catalonia. This includes the Law on the Management of Commercial Equipment and the Law on People's Consultation, Prohibition of Bulls, Reception of Immigrants, Commercial Hours, Decree-Law against Energy Poverty, Law on the Catalan Tax Agency, Effective Equality between Women and Men, Prohibition of Fracking, Large Areas, Civil Code of Catalonia, Law on Climate Change or Territorial Planning. As you can see, this is a strategic option of the state of total deactivation of Catalonia's autonomy. You, who are proclaimed constitutionalists, are violating the territorial constitution. Against its Constitution, they are preventing the people of Catalonia from having the same legal configuration of their own, and there will still be some who are surprised that independence is a majority in Catalan society. In addition, in many cases these are innovative laws that the State will eventually assume, from the ban on bulls' lifesavers to more social laws such as the recent Housing Rental Cost Containment Act. This law is a social measure that counted on the vote of Junts, Esquerra, Comunes and the CUP, and with the opposite vote of Spanishism, the block of 155, including, of course, the vote of the PSC. It is a law that has been effective and that has managed to reduce the price of rents by up to 4% in areas where they were fired. As has already been said, the Council of Ministers of the most progressive government in history will appeal to the Constitutional Court for the Catalan Rent Act, but they have become generous in the metropolis and for the time being will not activate the suspension. We are not going to applaud these crumbs that exceptionally give us now. Moreover, if you consider the law to be unconstitutional - and you must consider it because you are going to appeal - why not force the suspension if you can? If we are now suspended for political reasons, who tells us that when other laws are suspended, they do not do so for political reasons as well? We are fed up with this paternalistic and colonial deal. In conclusion, we believe that the reform of the regulation of article 161.2 should be opened, which allows the Government to suspend autonomous laws. This regulation represents a serious imbalance between legislative powers, an unacceptable political protection. For all these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of Bildu's motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u133	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u134	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the comrades of Euskal Herria Bildu bring us a proposal with which we feel very identified. This is a very basic, very simple initiative; a proposal that can be considered minimal and that should be easy to approve by any Government that creates that of the decentralized State. The text proposed by Bildu's compañeras only asks one thing: that the Government respect its own rules, that it does not invade the competences of the rest of the administrations. Since Catalonia, unfortunately, we have also suffered on too many occasions this judicialized anxiety denounced by Bildu's companions. Since the adoption of the Statute of Catalonia in 2006, more than forty Catalan laws have been challenged before the Constitutional Court, all of which have already been annulled or suspended. It's unusual, but let's do a review because I've heard a lot of things lately here. First, the Public Sector Tax, Administrative and Financial Measures Act, which includes the prohibition of fracking and the construction of large commercial areas outside cities; a law of immense environmental impact, essential for the protection of the territory. If we had enjoyed more laws like this, today we would not be paying the Beaver's bill to Mr Florentino Pérez, for example. Second, the Law on Effective Equality between Women and Men, adopted by the vast majority of the Parliament of Catalonia. It was intended to regulate the mechanisms and resources necessary to give effect to the right to equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sex. Third, decree-law of commercial schedules establishing a regulatory framework that allowed small traders to continue to earn their living, despite the preponderance of large shopping centers and giants such as Amazon or AliExpress. Fourth, a decree-law amending the consumer code, a law that guarantees the protection of the most vulnerable against the abusive recruitment of large service providers. Fifthly, the battery of taxes to finance social policies - I have heard many things this afternoon - with the tax on large bank deposits, the tax on nuclear power plants, the tax on Internet operators or one of the most flagrant with the housing emergency we are suffering today, the tax on empty floors. All of this I say only by way of example in these few five minutes that I have, but there are so many more. Of course, we cannot forget the flagrant injustice of the Government's recently announced appeal against the rental price law, which has already been said here. And look, there is also the Catalan Reception Law, it has also been said here today. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself a question. What do all these legislative initiatives led by the Constitutional Court have in common at the request of the major parties of the State? Are these progressive or reactionary laws? Do these laws that I have just referred to strengthen rights or are they to protect privileges? Do they allow social progress or are they regressive? I think the answer is quite clear. All these laws represent significant progress and are the vivid reflection of the consensus of a society, the Catalan, that wants a more just future, and it is in that thirst for justice that we can find the true reason of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to challenge one after another all the great legislative initiatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, because after a supposed legal technical reason hides the political motivation to protect the interests of the most privileged, because what is being done is to put social conquests, but not because they are Catalan, but because they run counter to the interests of IBEX 35 and also the Bernabéu stage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u135	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, that we are here today debating a motion by the ETA party reflects what many Spaniards think: it is the greatest evidence of the moral degeneration that has been achieved in this House. The terrorist party Otegui filed a motion complaining that illegal decisions in the Basque Country or Navarre were appealed to the Constitutional Court. Let's put in the background the reasons why these five protera are here today in Congress, so that many Spaniards can know where this churnish spirit that represents this motion comes from. The Socialist Party agreed with ETA on the road map that included the legalization of Bildu; of course, the legalization of ETA with different acronyms than those of Batasuna. To this end, it was necessary the collaboration of the Constitutional Court, politicized in the service of the PSOE, which, by amending the plan to the Supreme Court and fraudulently, did a favor to the Socialist Party and allowed the legalization of Bildu, despite the irrefutable evidence with which the Supreme Court illegalized you. And if you have taken advantage of that negotiation, because it goes very well with the Socialist Party. They have achieved and continue to obtain from their government partners the legalization of their party, power in institutions, release of murderers, rapprochement of prisoners, speeding up the transfer of powers from prisons to the Basque Country so that the 'picks nuts' of the PNV can go and release them gradually, under some pretext, as they already did with Bolinaga. Now these protera come to say textually in this motion that it has been forty years in which Basque society has been denied its progress in social, economic, political, cultural or linguistic rights. Representatives of Etraras, how immoral there is in your argument! In forty years, the only people who have been denied their social, economic or cultural rights in Basque society have been the nearly 1,000 victims of ETA who have been deprived of their most rights, which is life. [[Applauds]] Also to the thousands of Basques who have had to leave their land, their family or their business because your friends, the terrorists, prevented them - and they are still being prevented today - from exercising any political, economic or social rights in freedom. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have achieved something as unworthy as this being a normalization, that these protera are here in total normality and speak with you in total naturality. These individuals also represent the murderers of men, women and children, and that is outrageous. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this attitude can only be justified because some share the project with the enemies of Spain; others because they want us to ignore the damage that has been done to thousands of Spaniards. A party that is sitting here as ETA commissioners will be able to gain the blood-stained legitimacy they grant it, as a result of the Socialist Party's negotiation with the ETA terrorist band, but they will never have the recognition or bleaching of VOX. From VOX we tell you that any protest that comes from the protera of Bildu, for the victims and for Spain, on our behalf, we will always tell you: no. [[Applauds]] As I have time left, President, and there has been allusion today to the Columbus demonstration in which VOX was present, I must say to the Socialist Party gentlemen and to the rest of their partners, that I always prefer the photo of Columbus to the photo with those who represent ETA's assassins. [[shows a photograph]] Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u137	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group, Euskal Herria Bildu, presents a motion for urgent questioning concerning remedies of unconstitutionality against the laws of the Basque and Navarro Parliament. The interpellation was presented last week and was based on up to thirty laws appealed in the last ten years. A period of ten years is sufficient not to consider it urgent, even more so if, instead of ten years, as the questioner, Mrs Aizpurua, said, was based on forty years of repeated non-compliance. In addition, the motion states that many of the contested laws were nullified in whole or in part. This means that the Constitutional Court found reasons for unconstitutionality in these laws. It is what the rule of law and the balance of power has, which guarantees our harmonious and peaceful coexistence, which we have wanted to give ourselves within the margins of the laws in the exercise of our sovereignty. And it is that this is another mantra that you repeat and reflect in the statement of reasons to see if this becomes true. National sovereignty, as stated in article 1.2 of the Constitution, resides in the Spanish people, from which the powers of the State emanate. Sovereignty is not compartmentalized, ladies and gentlemen. Basque sovereignty does not exist, nor does there exist Murcian sovereignty or Mandega sovereignty. Sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, of which you are a part, and it is appropriate not to play semantically with these concepts that support our coexistence. Sovereignty is one thing and autonomy is another, which emanates precisely from that sovereignty. The Basques of the South of the Pyrenees and the Navarros for the same reason, no more or less, we will never cease to be Spanish, because, smoothly and plainly, it is what we are. We are necessary historical collaborators, together with Castilians, Manchegos, Catalans, Gallegos, Andalucians and the rest of the peoples of Spain, of the construction of this national project recognized and identified by all the nations of the world like Spain. You say you are bound to this state when you are actually and are part of its configuration and constitution, as well as the reality that conforms to our present day. The children of the Basque democratic diaspora, those who were expelled from our land and from our universe of affections for not sharing the nationalist idea of confrontation and insolidity with the rest of Spain, we will never accept the legitimacy of the process by which one day you, the Basque independenceists, determined that only your racist and xenophobic vision and hatred of everything that meant Spain was genuinely Basque and embarked on a path of imposition, extortion, blackmail, isolation, expulsion and murder, of which today you have not expressed sincere or credible repentance. On the contrary, as is well known, you strive in worship to a schizophrenic narrative that seeks to make that time of barbarism and unwise an environment of heroic acts. What is true is that as long as you persist in wanting to make us believe that this sectarian and self-centered vision of the national reality in which you are installed is irrevocable, the energies of the nation are consumed in the daily debate on harmony between the different communities of Spain and, unfortunately, you are an obstacle to the collective progress of our nation, to which you are an inseparable part. I encourage you to move away from exclusive identity dreams and to be prepared to tie your shoulder together with the rest of the Spaniards to continue doing what we Basques and shipwrecks have done throughout history: to bring the best of ourselves so that this nation, Spain of all, can progress towards the future in the way that its children deserve. And to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the United Nations, may we, who support the Government, encourage you not to contribute to perpetuating this mechanism of semantic and rhetorical subterfuges, according to which everything is valid, everything is possible and the nation is a discussed and questionable concept. This statement is incompatible with our Constitution and it is important not to permanently undermine the basic principles of agreement on which our coexistence is established and consolidated, not that of the 350 deputies and the 265 senators, but that of the 47 million Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u140	No, we don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u141	All right, thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Government's Disposition to Be Indulged THE COURT SUPPLEMENTS TO SEDITION PENSION PENSION AND OTHER SERIOUS DELIVERS, AND TO REFORM CERTAIN CRIMINAL TYPES OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, ALL AS POLITICAL PAYMENT TO THEIR SECESSIONIST COMPANIES. [[File number 173/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u142	We continue with the motion resulting from the urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's willingness to pardon those sentenced by the Supreme Court to sedition sentences and other serious crimes, as well as to reform certain criminal types of the Criminal Code, all as a political payment to its secessionist partners. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. With her coming. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party we once again call on the President of the Government not to pardon those who have committed crimes and who have been sentenced by the Supreme Court to imprisonment for sedition and other serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, it was an abject blow against our Constitution and national unity; it was a hard blow to our coexistence, trying to sow discord among friends, families and institutions in Catalonia; it was something that cannot be repeated. Thousands of companies have left Catalonia, a wonderful Spanish land that does not deserve to be a political scene of affronts and follies. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the announcement by the President of the Government to grant pardon has caused dismay throughout our country. It's a step back and it's a seed of rupturism. No one understands the President of the Government, who recently maintained that this pardon could never be produced; he said so and has listened to it all over Spain. The whole society sees with indignation the turn that President Sánchez has given to his own arguments, for someone who turns on his morale as a sail as his political interest blows is not someone to be trusted. I think President Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, is very lonely and very wrong. Only the power holds it, but what power, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? because a permanence in power in exchange for this decision is a morally powerless element that will fade away long before what can be thought; because, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Government wants to hold his power in those who are suffocated by prevaricating and abject purposes; because what they intend to do is to end everything, with our Constitution, with the principles that integrate it and with the agreement that inspires it; because they intend to ruin a nation for which we have so much struggled and, with rubble, to build a vantageist and illegal chimera. That is how humiliating this situation is, and so many socialists who have long defended the law in our country and have not changed its principles despite power see. This situation is opprobious, but the pardon itself is a genuine reproach, because it is not only amoral, lacking in the purest ethics and exemplaryness, but also, ladies and gentlemen, it is out of the law. It is an arbitrary fact in itself, it is a betrayal of the Spanish people made without any modesty. This will be a pardon for fraud of law, because it is a reel of votes for principles, of political support for ethical and moral ruin, of votes for legality; yes, ladies and gentlemen, legality, because the report of the Supreme Court is conclusive, and if its echo does not reverberate on the walls of Moncloa, we have a serious problem with our country with the Government. The Supreme Court says that the message conveyed by the convicts is very expressive of a willingness to recidivize in the attack on the pillars of democratic coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, recidivism. Just as clearly is the report of the prosecutor's office, which states that seeking to sustain the public utility of this initiative of grace is not the most recommended when it is intended to break the basic regulatory framework of democratic coexistence. It's very clear, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, the references in these reports of the Office of the Prosecutor and the Supreme Court to the consideration of pardons that they would have if they were granted make it clear that this intention of the Government is arbitrary, since it would grant pardon to those who are benefiting from it, because it needs political support through the right of grace, and that is illegal and immoral. The pardon is prohibited in law and we demand that the Government rectify its intentions and abandon this affront to justice. We also demand that the Government abandon its intention to reform certain criminal types of the Criminal Code as a political payment to its separatist partners. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unheard of and unacceptable. Spain no longer supports Mr Sánchez's political payments, the rapprochement of terrorists by the votes of Bildu or these humiliating pardons by the votes of the separatists. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that is good enough. Those who delinquent and repeat that they will do so again should not be treated with half inks or rebates of the Penal Code, nor are there valid pardons. There's law, there's the Constitution and there's justice, ladies and gentlemen. These criminals want to look like they're not, they play with populist dreams, they change the story of their crimes and then they move on to the victimism that we all know. In this matter, the condemned and those who support them have wanted to offer an international image of Spain as a state without law, without justice, in an infamous paradox where the offender pretends to be exonerated on the basis of the contempt of the judge and, to this end, they have tried political moves in international institutions from unreal and biased perspectives, such as that promoted by the Latvian socialist deputy, author of a report before the Council of Europe whose sole objective, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is to insult Spain and undermine our democracy and our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this petty game has to be over as soon as possible, and it is essential that the Government begin to deploy its full diplomatic capacity so that decision-making in the Council of Europe bodies is done from an informed, real and non-trending perspective as hitherto. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we defend Spain, defend the Constitution, defend the law and defend the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, not these pardons, but Spain. From the People's Party we will repeat loud and clear the times that are necessary that we cannot negotiate in a prison with criminals that which we all voted forty years ago in a model transition in the world. [[Applauds]] That you cannot sell the unity and equality of the Spaniards for a handful of votes to continue in the Moncloa. That the right of grace cannot be used for political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not all right to remain in power, it is a fraud to pardon the report against the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office. And it's not about revenge or revenge, as the President of the Government recently said here, it's about complying with the law, ladies and gentlemen. Something so simple, something that reflects article 9 of our Constitution. It's a basic principle. Everyone can think as they please, but there is no law for one and no law for another. The law is the same for all and we are all subject to the law, and when we all say, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, of course we include the Government and its governing partners. We're all subject to the law. Conditions for pardon are not given either for justice or for fairness or for general interest, and those who say that they would do so again can never be pardoned. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, not to pardons, yes to Spain, yes to the Constitution and yes to the law. That is what the People's Party will always be clear about and defends. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. The People's Party is presenting a motion for urgent questioning. I said right, the People's Party. What did the People's Party do when there was a coup d'état in Catalonia? Apply a 155-pack to run out within a few days and call elections that gave more strength to separatism, instead of making a real intervention by the autonomous community in accordance with the Constitution. What did the People's Party do when some of us, as the only popular accusation, sit on the bench to the thugs? He was dedicated to other things, but he did absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. The complaints filed by this party were those that sat on the bench; then came the complaints of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office at the Supreme Court, the National Court, the High Courts of Justice, in six courts in Catalonia. Where was the People's Party? In other things. Now, yes, he's picking up signatures all over Spain. I wonder if he tells the people from whom he collects signatures that have no legitimacy whatsoever, not even to appeal the possible pardon to the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court. I don't think so. And it is good that you now present these motions, of course, and we are going to support the motion, and we have also tabled an amendment to reform the Criminal Code and it is not a necessary requirement to constitute a crime of rebellion if there is force, violence, and it is not necessary for there to be a crime of sedition, tumult or illicit force. The reality is that the Supreme Court ruling of 14 October 2019 sentenced twelve of the leading coup leaders for sedition, embezzlement and disobedience, and up to thirteen years in prison. The report of the Supreme Court, the report of the Office of the Prosecutor, makes it very clear: there are no reasons for justice, fairness or public utility. It has thus been corroborated by the judgments and judgments of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission and even Amnesty International. They say these reports that there is no slightest glimpse of repentance in the condemned, none, and that there is also a clear will for recidivism, because they say they will do it again. Moreover, it adds something important that we have often denounced from here with the prison powers of the Generality of Catalonia: that there is, that there has been an attempt to collect the condemned, the prisoners, turning them into a collective - reminds us of those of the ETA - the collective of political prisoners. But this party asks the House and asks the Government: if it dares to grant such pardons, what is the real reason? If there are no reasons for justice, if there are no reasons for equity, if there are no reasons for public benefit, what is the real reason if these pardons are granted? Pay a price for blackmail. That's the only reality. The price of the self-indulgence of those who are the supporters of this Government, of those who are maintaining them in Moncloa, are the pacts to insult them and also to reform the Penal Code to reduce the penalties of sedition and rebellion, perhaps so that when Puigdemont and the other escaped cowards do not have any choice but to surrender or be arrested by the courts, they can benefit from the most favourable criminal law. I remember talking about this with my colleague, the national deputy Pedro Fernández, when we were on the stand wearing the robe and accusing them. We said: You'll see how in the end, if they can't stop it - as they haven't - in the courts, despite twisting their wrists at the last moment to the State Attorney's Office and trying it to the Attorney General's Office, they'll do it by the false door of pardons. They are not pardons, they are insults, not to the 130,000 Spaniards who protested last Sunday in Colón, but to the millions of Spaniards who believe in the rule of law, who refuse to accept the government's blackmails. From here, from this rostrum, we tell the government and its partners: let's go back to iron. We'll do it again. We will re-sit them on the bench and those who try to re-take a coup d'état against Spain will re-enter prison. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u146	Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that our Constitution provides for the possibility of pardons and also provides, in article 25, that sentences of deprivation of liberty shall be aimed at re-education and social reintegration. In this case, the objective does not seem to have been achieved at the moment. However, since the time of Beccaría, the role of punishment does not include punishment as in previous stages, but one of its functions is the prevention of crime and preventing offenders from committing it again; also the potential protection of other victims. I do not want to set examples so that there are no misunderstandings, but that everyone chooses the one that seems most appropriate to him. Here it is no longer a question of being in favour of pardon as an institution, not even in favour of some cases yes and no others, it is a question of complying with the law, of complying with the law of pardon. They will invoke public utility and we will be able to discuss rejection or social support - and here there will be a great disparity between the Spanish regions - and whether it is for or against agreement, we can even discuss whether the crime of sedition needs more precision in order to adapt it to these times, but with rigour and knowing that something similar happens in most advanced democracies. But what seems to be behind all this is the partisan use of these pardons for the benefit of the Government, and as long as this doubt does not disappear - for sure - it will never cease to be thought that this is an illegal act. It is true that Mr Junqueras' letter changes things, but here nine individual pardons are being processed, and I suppose something will have to be said by the rest of those affected in the processing. Of course, if they go out of jail to repeat, social utility becomes the opposite, and that seems to be what emerges from the statements of the forgiving and their environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u149	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. One of the biggest blows to our democracy took place in Catalonia on 1 October, and today the Spanish Government is complicit in that coup. It does so by protecting the coups in the face of democracy, impunity in the face of justice and the creeping interest in the equality of all Spaniards before the law. There is nothing more democratic than the law and no Government can use the law at its service to pay a price for the transfer of blackmail. The greatness of a democracy is precisely the equality of all before the law. The opposite is called absolutism, it is called totalitarianism and it is called dictatorship, which is towards what it seems that some in this House want to take our country. There is nothing less democratic than a government that wants to unite all the powers of the state around the figure of the president. At a time when the President of the Government wants to deliver justice, justice is being blinded, and democracy is no longer a democracy and citizens are no longer free and we are no longer equal. Unfortunately, today we have a government in Spain that, instead of defending Spain against independence, joins independence against Spain, and it calls it magnanimity, and justice calls it revenge, claudication calls it concordia and law calls it revenge. And so the equality of all Spaniards before the law is destroyed, the rule of law is destroyed, democracy is destroyed in itself and Spain is sold by fascicles, which is the path Mr Sánchez is taking. And, in addition, they dare to criticize the Spaniards who go out proud on Sunday to defend freedom, the rule of law and the Constitution in our country. And they criticize it because they believe that the street is theirs, that democracy belongs to them and that people have to shut up before their blackmail and their cynicism, the cynicism of having said that they were going to bring Puigdemont to judge him - judge him, for what?, to pardon him later?-; before cynicism to say that he was not going to compromise with independence, and to be partners even of Bildu; before cynicism to say that he was not going to rule with Podemos, and today he is ruling; before cynicism of constant lying, of permanent deception and of incessant mockery. We are very proud to defend freedom, to defend the rule of law and to defend the Constitution. What would embarrass me would be to be part of a government that relies on partners like you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u150	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, how about Sunday? Heat, right? There, face the sun. Look, according to the chronicles, the play went wrong for them. I've read that there were fewer people than they anticipated, who booed their leader. In the same way, her most ultra split was strengthened and above all the president of the Community of Madrid has put the head of state in an eggplant, in case she had few inside her house. He has been told that he either disobeys the Constitution or will become an accomplice to an alleged plot. I see that at this stage you are going to become Republicans, gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, I've heard with interest how I was trying to simulate that anger over that immorality, that illegality, but it just takes a bit of a review of the past, the application of pardons in the Spanish state so that that simulation that they want to make this a total crisis doesn't hold. Let's see, if it was by number of pardons, who's the one who's most pardoned in this state? You, the People's Party. Moreover, if we speak of controversial pardons, who has pardoned the greatest number of corrupts, 227 convicted of corruption? The People's Party, and in this case, I guess it wasn't a payment to your corrupt partners, was it? But you have also pardoned terrorists, state terrorists, have pardoned torturers, have pardoned kamikazes, have even pardoned people who were serving sentences for sexual offences. Those I think are controversial pardons, which can generate a real crisis. But not to you, to you seems the worst that has happened in the state that there is someone who has put ballot boxes, ballot boxes to vote. Do you know what's going on? That the scandalous is not pardons, the scandalous is that there is a whole government in prison. That's outrageous. [[Applauds]] Then, in that fiction they represent, they speak of repentance. What do these gentlemen have to regret? I applaud them and am proud of them for being true democrats and defenders of freedom. But if we talked about repentance, I told you before, did the members of the LAG who pardoned you repent? No, they were haughty and proud of it. Do you know who the Goli was, a torturer known in Intxaurrondo who was pardoned by a government? The point is, he wasn't pardoned once, no, he was pardoned twice, twice. Was there any regrets? No, no, Did you guys ever regret it? No, no, Here we see what weighs on them. And, by the way, here are the 23F shots. Mr Alfonso Armada, the king's guardian - before he spoke of 23-F - was pardoned, it is true that by another government. Did you ever regret it? Did you tear your clothes? No, no, What happens is that the data reflects that you are simulating what comes to be a state crisis when the data, I say, show that you have a lot to shut up. Look, we, if Catalan political prisoners and political prisoners go out on the street, we'll be happy, and we'll be just as happy if they go out with a pardon or if they run away, it doesn't matter, because these people didn't have to be tried or convicted and, much less, never go to prison. Never. The shame is that, but it is that, moreover, at this time you come to say that the internationalization of the conflict must be stopped. But what world do you live in? Having political prisoners in a Member State of the European Union does not look well, but no one sees it well: the Council of Europe does not see it well, but neither does the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Group see it well and, for the same reason, they have not handed over to any of the exiles either the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany or Switzerland, because it is not understood. I don't know what failure you're talking about. His weakness is that, speaking of illegalities, through Operation Catalonia, through the operation of October 1st, violently suppressing a plebiscite and, later, having political prisoners, what they have done is ridiculous, ridiculous international. And I end by saying that we will be glad if these people are pardoned, but that the conflict is still there, unresolved, and that repression is still going on. With this, I hope that there will be negotiations and dialogue in good faith and, above all, that repression will be stopped and that those who never had to be in jail will be released. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u152	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u153	Thank you very much, President. He proposed that the People's Parliamentary Group should move that the Government should not pardon Catalan political leaders or amend the Criminal Code in the criminal types of sedition and rebellion. Your ladies and gentlemen already know the position of the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue, we have repeated it countless times in and out of this House, but since the People's Party insists, we will repeat it again, since for the PNV, while respecting the decisions of the Supreme Court, in Catalonia there was neither rebellion nor sedition nor coup d'état. We are facing a constitutional crisis around the national question answered by the State with emergency measures. We are facing a political conflict around different national senses of belonging. We are faced with a political conflict embodied in that it has been treated as a mere matter of public order. For the Basque Nationalist Party, it is now up to us to bet on a new time of dialogue and negotiation, which ends the time of intransigence and repression. For the Basque Nationalist Party it is now time to seek solutions, it is time for politics, it is time for the exercise of the right of grace and the legislative initiative of the Government to amend the Penal Code. Certainly, we believe that they will not solve the so-called Catalan process, but they will remove obstacles. We therefore consider it of general interest to remove obstacles, such as imprisoned political leaders, to address a political issue by political channels. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of pardon is not an arbitrary privilege, but a constitutional prerogative of the Government, of all governments in our political and legal environment. The Constitution recognizes a time for the judiciary and a time for politics, as is the criminal policy, and, within it, the right of grace as a matter of constitutional reservation of government to temper precisely the jeus puniendi in attention to circumstances of material justice, equity or public utility, for, among other purposes, as pointed out by the Supreme Court, smoothing international conflicts and resolving serious public problems affecting internal coexistence. On the other hand, and for the same reasons of substance, we consider it opportune and necessary politically to reform certain offences which protect as protected legal property, either public order or the same Constitution, including the one of sedition and rebellion. On 23 March, he pointed this out to this House, both to respond to the reality of our time, to harmonize with the countries in our environment and, as the Minister pointed out last week, to facilitate legal and police cooperation. There are inconsistencies and paradoxes, especially in that of sedition, because although it does not require violence or intimidation, it carries far higher penalties and has a confusing wording that makes it think more of a type prepared to protect the Constitution than to protect public order. I'll finish it, President. It was said here last week: justice must be blind, the interests of a society, no. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, restoring coexistence is a surrender, a humiliation, your thesis is: to more dialogue, more confrontation. On the contrary, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, of the Basque Nationalist Party, political programmes are not prohibited, they are confronted; they are not resolved with the Police, with the Penal Code, with the Criminal Prosecution Act or with the General Prison Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you continue to propose judicial and prison measures for what is not known to be dealt with or solved, and you are also committed to not deflaming it. We will not support your motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u154	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u155	Thank you, President. Good night, everyone. We are here to discuss the motion put forward by the People's Party in relation to the pardons of convicted, convicted prisoners who struck against democracy, who struck against coexistence in Spain and Catalonia. The pity is that we have no doubt that the pardon will be granted, we only have the doubt of when the pardon will be granted. The penalty is that the Government of Spain falls into this indignity of crossing a fundamental red line that involves respect for the separation of powers, respect for the rule of law. The penalty is that the Government of Spain enters the path of the aggravation, by the consolidation of a Spain of privileges that aggravates some, those who fulfill, and rewards others, those who commit crimes. Having not yet granted pardons, we are already talking about a table of shame and we are already thinking about the following concession to the rationalists: Iceta and Illa are already talking about a referendum. What's next? What will come next regarding the statements of people like Pere Aragonès, who, in relation to those who do not share the pardons, says: even if you know, we will have independence? That is what will come next: independence, the referendum. They prepare us for that; they prepare us for that with the pardons, with the table, with the referendum of self-determination, and it is absolutely insulting, it is absolutely humiliating, because the nationalists, the separatists are absolutely insatiable, absolutely insatiable in their goal of achieving the rupture of the political and social coexistence of our country. The worst is not to reward those who broke up together, who separate families and friends, who made so many entrepreneurs flee Catalonia; the worst is to give them reason, to legitimize themselves; the worst is to disregard the message of 3 October of the head of state, of the king of Spain, who filled us with hope to those we believe in the Constitution. The worst is that they will go out on the street to celebrate it to humiliate us all again, to humiliate the Catalans who lived in silence subjugated by the unique thought until my party, Citizens, was born in 2006 to give them a voice. Again that anguish that we experienced in 2007 with the referendum of 1 October, all the people we believe in living together, in peace and in the rule of law. They forgive politicians who have not asked for forgiveness, who do not recognize the authority of the Spanish State, who do not recognize the authority of the Constitutional Court, who do not repent and who say that they will do so again, when the Second Chamber of the Supreme says in its report, in the pardon file, that pardon is not another remedy to combat the sentence; when the street is clearly expressed in the demonstration of Barcelona and that of Columbus; when even the socialist voters, for the most part, do not agree with pardon. And the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court tells us that repentance is a legal requirement. And the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court tells us that pardon must be based on reasons of justice, equity and public utility. And there is no justice when it comes to bringing people out of prison who attack the Constitution and live together through serious crimes. And there is no equity, because only these imprisoned politicians are elected and not other prisoners who committed lighter crimes. And there is no public utility, what there is is an offence and a public humiliation of the nation; what there is a private utility of the President of the Government, who to keep in power is able to pay the highest price, to put on his knees a whole nation. But they even insult us; they even insult us. The President of the Government, who said that he was betting on the full enforcement of the sentences and that he ruled out the pardon, said that we are vindictive. The Vice-President of the Government says that we are addressing coexistence and Catalonia. The Minister of Justice says that the rule of law provides for pardons. But so much the rule of law is to grant them as to deny them. And that is why, because they do not meet the requirements of the law, I promise you that we will bring an administrative appeal and that they will return to prison; they will return to the prison from which they should never have been released. Today I look at the socialist bench and recognize people whom I respect who believe in the rule of law and who are going to have to eat this frog, and I say to them: raise your voice, because if I were sitting there, within five minutes of seeing the pardons I would leave my record and leave the Socialist Party so that I could look people in the face. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u156	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u157	Thank you, President. This motion of inquiry, the interpellation, the collection of signatures, all this gesticulation that the People's Party is doing has only two objectives: a first objective, which is to wear down the government, and it cares the same thing about pardons, that vaccines, that the state of alarm, that Morocco. We'll see if they're successful or not. I don't think they're going to be very successful. And the other goal is simply to cover their flank of the far right, and in that I tell you that they are not successful, because VOX is always going to surpass them: 'two more hard eggs','more wood'. They have seen Mr Ortega Smith's speech, so I believe that they are making an attempt that is not going to serve them at all and that it is not, of course, going to solve any situation in Catalonia either. All those who have come up here to cry out against pardons, can you explain to me where they were in December 1988, when General Armada was pardoned for attempted coup d'état? Twenty-six years in prison! Where were you? Were they picking up signatures? Were they presenting contentious-administrative resources? Were they crying from this rostrum? No, no, Where were you when Mr. Barrionuevo and Mr. Vera were pardoned, sentenced to ten and twelve years for kidnapping? Were they picking up signatures? Were they filing appeals? Were they crying from this rostrum? Be honest, be honest with you and your political forces with yourselves. Tonight, when they go to sleep, prisoners and prisoners will go to sleep in their cell, but think that any of them have more dignity and political integrity than any of us here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u159	Thank you, President, for today's speech. I took the words of esteemed Gonzalo Boye, lawyer of the many Honourable President Carles Puigdemont, also persecuted for doing his job and doing it alongside an independentist, the only one who is planting us face unaccounted for. We are told by the admired Gonzalo Boye that Spain does not realize that the worst part of everything that is happening will be left to her, you will be left to yourself, and this worst part is the accumulated hatred of a society that still does not assume that the problem is not the Catalans, we are not independenceists; the problem is the lack of democratic culture. It has been pointed out that the tree of democracy in Spain had no roots. Gonzalo also says that when he heard, his father said to him: you can't keep hating, you have to educate your daughters and you can't do it with this feeling. I invite all of you to endorse this sentence. This feeling of hatred they have is rotting them, rotting everything they do and everything they touch. Don't do it for yourselves, do it for those who come after you. Those who believe or explain that the conflict is on the way to being resolved are that they have not at all understood what the real problem is, and those who believe or explain that acting well will treat us a little better, lie. Without the struggle from exile that has forced international pressures, without their determination to plant a State led by hatred and revenge on its own, there would never have been talk of pardons here. The rain continues and continues at the end. Dream Catalonia free! Freedom of political prisoners, exiles and reprisals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u160	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u161	I'm happy to participate in this ultra-right group therapy. You have spoken of blackmail, revenge, being paid, beatings, repentance, humiliation, forgiveness, knees... With this they have some kind of affiliation or phobia. I understand that Tejero repented a lot, so he continues to make paellas in Valencia every 23 February. A couple of comments for Mr Rojas and Mr Bal, especially for Mr Bal. You will never - understand me - be as savage in this as VOX, ever, and in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, have gone from thirty-six deputies, to win, doped as media as ever, but to win the elections in Catalonia to fit in a van, to be six. Is there really no one in there who says: hey, shut up!, we're going to change a little bit, because we're going to end up hanging in an elevator? Change the speech a little bit, because you will never equal it, you have the copyright, so stick to other things, that I believe that in this country there really is a political space for you if you forget other things. Year 2000. The year 2000 was a special year, convulsed. In that year the world was not over, as the Mayas said, there was a lunar eclipse; Schumacher won Formula 1 worlds; Carlos Santana played on the radio; Zapatero was elected secretary general of the PSOE; Bush won the elections in the United States by a handful of votes, and you, lords of the People's Party, won the elections in Spain by an absolute majority. It was a good time, it was Aznar's time, standing on the table with Bush. Then the wedding would come in El Escorial, which is only missing to impute to the waiters, but it was a year in which something happened that wasn't published much but was important, and maybe they remember it because it was historical. Do you remember what happened on December 1, 2000? Do you remember? Don't you? They should. That year is historic because that year, on 1 December 2000, the Council of Ministers, the Government of the People's Party, Mr Acebes concretely, in a single Council of Ministers, pardoned 1328 people, 1328 in a single day, some of them convicted of prevarication and embezzlement. Do you know how many of those pardons were worth astounding, were worth interventions like the ones we heard today? Zero; zero: these because they had stolen. [[makes the sign of zero with thumb fingers and index]] Of course, they were yours, and then it was worth it. I'm gonna tell you a story this minute that I have left. On 1 December 2003, a man driving a car at 180 kilometres per hour on the AP-7 had a first accident, fled, was about to kill the occupants of the car with which he crashed, turned around, became an even more dangerous kamikaze at 180 kilometres per hour, crashed with another car and killed a 25-year-old boy; killed him. He was sentenced to thirteen years in prison. Do you know what happened to him? He was pardoned. Do you know how long he was in jail? Ten months. Do you know how much you paid a fine? Only 4000 euros. Do you know who he was? I tell you: Ramón Jorge Ríos Salgado, a director of the Opel, cousin of the Councillor of Sanidad de Cospedal, friend of one of the lawyers of the firm of the son of Gallardón - by the way, the one who pardoned him - and the lawyer who drew up the report of his pardon was the brother of a secretary of state of yours. Please, please, just shut up a little... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u163	Thank you, President. Alfonso Armada, a soldier convicted of participating in the 23-F coup d'état, pardoned; José Barrionuevo and Rafael Vera, minister and secretary of state convicted of kidnapping, pardoned; Javier Gómez de Liaño, magistrate convicted of prevarication, pardoned; José Ramón Ramírez and Ángel Sáez, commander and medical captain convicted of falsifying the identity of thirty soldiers killed in the YAK-42 accident, pardoned. It could thus continue to reach the 10,582 pardons that have been applied in Spain since 1996. Of all those, the People's Party has not said a word. Moreover, if you ever regain power again, you will again apply pardons to your criminals, to the prisoners with the designation of origin of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is why you are not against the pardons; what happens to you is that you have renounced Catalonia because in the last elections, in the polls, you put them in their place and, for that reason, you have decided to parapet in Madrid de Ayuso, which is at the moment the true epicenter of the territorial conflict that Spain has. After a very hard pandemic, the Catalans and the Catalans know that we are facing a change of stage. Winds of change are breathed in Catalonia and that bothers them because they need chryspation to survive. Mr Casado has not stopped saying these weeks that pardons to independent prisoners harm democracy. Mr Casado is wrong, what harms democracy is that Mrs Cospedal is accused; what harms democracy is that a minister of the People's Party used the Ministry of the Interior to spy on his political opponents; what harms democracy is that his party reforms its seat with black money from box B; what harms democracy is that the same week that Machism has shown its most cruel and inhumane face, you showed up in Columbus alongside the negators of that macho violence. [[Applauds]] That, gentlemen of the People's Party, is what harms democracy, and there are not enough flags in Columbus that can cover up the corruption of Genoa. The pardons are not an assignment to anyone, they are part of the solution that we have always defended from En Comú Pomero y União We can, often alone, and they are, above all, the first step necessary to found a new territorial pact after you made it jump through the air with the rulings of the Statue and its extractive policy of Madrid of the elites; a territorial pact that includes Catalonia and its demands, but also the Valencia Country, the Basque Country or the emptied Spain. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today this motion will be rejected, because most of the Spaniards were not in Columbus on Sunday. Most of the Spaniards are represented in this House, which today is going to say no to their burning land policy, because in Spain, right now, there are two projects. One, the one that walks between Columbus and Genoa, that is, between the centralist Madrid of the elites and corruption. And two, the multi-national entrepreneurial, green and feminist project, which represents the block of governance. The first one's already failed. He did it on Sunday and he's been doing it for over a decade, because what you're doing is nothing new. Repeat the same script point by point: signatures against Catalonia and photo of Columbus bis. Let's learn the saying: The second parts were never good. And if the first photo of Columbus served to bury Citizens and leave Mr. Married in the political grape, this Sunday they have taken a step further and almost take the king ahead. I, as a Republican, have to thank Mrs Ayuso for her contribution to the cause. So make it look at you, because your idea of Spain is so narrow that in the coming weeks, when pardons are signed, I hope we will hear someone from your party calling Philip VI a traitor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u164	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Rojas, in just over three pages of your motion there is no solution to the open territorial crisis with Catalonia, not just one. And we already know what the People's Party has done in recent years: to collect signatures against the statute - now against pardons - and to deny the political and social reality of Catalonia. And when they ruled they did nothing - nothing - and looked away. And what was the result? For independence has increased as never before, Catalan society has become polarized as never before, and the distance between Catalonia and the rest of our country has increased as never before. By the way, Mr Rojas, there were two illegal referendums and a unilateral declaration of independence with Rajoy as president, with Mr Married in the executive of the PP and with you as deputy in this House. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, if what you have done has not worked - it has made the situation worse - and what you are proposing today is nothing new, why do you not leave this Government to start a new path, a path of understanding, a path that is nothing other than that of dialogue from the law and from gestures to facilitate that dialogue and a possible agreement? Honestly, we thought they had learned, that they had taken note. Shortly before the Catalan elections we heard Mr Casado say in an interview on a Catalan radio that he did not like the management that Rajoy did on 1 October and that he wanted to be part of Catalonia's solution and not of the problem. Collecting signatures is the solution? To go hand in hand to Columbus to manifest with the extreme right is part of the solution? No, it's not the solution, and you know it and the leaders of the People's Party, who left Mr. Married alone last Sunday, just that he didn't dare move on from Genoa Street, alone. [[Applauds]] Well, it's true that there was a leader who accompanied him. Mrs. Ayuso accompanied him and we are still waiting for Mr. Married to have the courage to ask him to withdraw by asking the king to breach his constitutional obligation. [[Applauds]] I hope you have the courage to ask him to withdraw, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I do not know whether you are aware of the drift in which you are. I don't know if they're conscious. They question and question the head of the state, block the institutions of this country, such as the General Council of the Judiciary, and confront some territories - and their citizens - with others. And you call yourselves patriots? Well, and I forget that when they come to the government they use institutions to hide their corruption, the patriots. [[Applauds]] If they had made the same effort to set up Kitchen to solve the country's territorial crisis, we would certainly not be in this debate today. [[Applauds]] I want to use the rostrum and this debate to address the citizens who may be listening to me. I want to tell you that we understand that you may be concerned, that we understand that you have doubts about the process of dialogue and reunion that we are starting, but I ask you to trust them, trust them, because whenever this country has had a challenge or difficulty that the Socialists have been facing there. [[Applauds]] We have always been there trying to solve the problems of our country, trying to solve the problems since dialogue and agreement, and always respecting the laws and our constitutional framework. We said yes to the Statute of Catalonia in 2006 because it was done from dialogue and with the law, and we said no to a referendum of self-determination in Catalonia because it was simply illegal. Convinced we support the implementation of 155 because there had been an attack on our coexistence framework and we now say yes to dialogue so that that coexistence can be regained. [[Applauds]] I shall finish now, and I want to do so by addressing my fellow Members on the bench, my fellow Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Look, comrades, the territorial crisis is a challenge, a challenge that has become a problem that we need to solve, and we have to do it courageously, with the same courage with which we made laws like that of euthanasia, with the same courage with which we faced the end of terrorism, with the same courage with which we have faced this pandemic. [[Applauds]] Because, comrades and comrades, the challenges are only faced with courage. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u166	Mr. Sicilia, your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rojas García, do you accept your group's amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u167	Mr. President, come on. The proposal will remain on its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u168	Okay, thank you very much. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE AN EFFECTIVE, SAFE AND EQUALIITATIVE VACCUNATION FOR ALL SPAIN BEFORE THE SUMMER. [[File number 173/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u169	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to ensure effective, safe and equal vaccination for all Spaniards before the summer. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u170	Thank you very much. Good evening or evening, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we've had an empirical demonstration that separatism virus produces meninges inflammation. [[Laughter and applause]] But I'm going to take care of another virus. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are tabling today is based on the principle of prudence and on several facts that I am going to list, although I am not going to extend because discipline and patience are virtues and I am not going to abuse. The principle of prudence must make us prepared for a resurgence of the epidemic. We must make new provisions for vaccines and diversify them. Facts. The purchase of vaccines by the European Union has been catastrophic. Tosca negotiates with AstraZeneca, almost monopoly now with Pfizer. Ladies and gentlemen, especially socialist and leftist ladies and gentlemen, full vaccination is not to have put a dose, but to have put the full schedule - i.e. two doses, except in the case of Janssen - and, moreover, according to the fact sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, there are six days left for the summer and there are only 27.5 % completely vaccinated. It's today's data. The Indian variant is already being transmitted between us and is wreaking havoc in the United Kingdom. You know that. Therefore, precautions should be taken. In addition, it attacks more people who have not been vaccinated and then those who have received only one dose. Ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind that from AstraZeneca there are millions and millions of Spaniards who have received only one dose. Second fact. It is unquestionable that China has infected the world and must compensate the world for it. [[Applauds]] As of today, six days before the tourist season, 57.5% of those over 50 years of age have not completed their vaccination and from 60 to 69 years of age 73.3%. Group immunity is essential for Spanish health and tourism, which accounts for 16% of GDP. Comparing the rate of vaccination of Spain with Germany is tricky, because the Spanish Government has a debt to the Spanish, since there are the same cases of infected and mortality with double the population; it has a vaccination debt. The Government has confused the Spanish with the AstraZeneca issue. The subliminal message given to the Spaniards is: Pfizer good, Modern less good, AstraZeneca bad, Janssen less bad. In addition, the Government has failed to comply with the law, as it has recommended vaccination guidelines that are outside the specification. There are 4,953,535 Spaniards waiting for their second dose of AstraZeneca and they are confused. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and here come the proposals, we need the following actions that can be done. Firstly, direct purchase of vaccines through private public collaboration. Secondly, to be excluded from the future early purchasing arrangements of the European Union. It can be done in the case of Novavax and Valneva, when authorised by the European Medicines Agency. In the case of the other vaccines, since it is an administrative agreement, it is necessary to exchange notes verbales between the Spanish Government and the European Union in order to get out of those agreements which may harm us with those vaccines which, either for secondary effects, or because there has not been enough supply, do not interest us or, on the contrary, those which are of strategic interest to us. Another question. What can we do to prevent future pandemics? If we want to prevent it, it is essential to monitor China. Communist China infected the world. Two hypotheses are currently being handled. One hypothesis is that of zoonosis and the second hypothesis, which has emerged from the Institute of Virology of Wuhan, gains ground. Maybe yesterday Joe Biden told Mr. Sanchez in twenty-nine seconds. [[Applauds]] What's the basis of this? It is based on the fact that in autumn 2019 several workers were infected with atypical pneumonia and were Wuhan workers. In addition, SARS CoV 2 is not found in bats. It has improper characteristics of a virus that has naturally mutated. It is known that Wuhan's laboratory designed a Frankenstein virus between a bat virus and SARS CoV 1 and that this virus was designed to infect human cells. These viruses are called hyperfunctional and their research was banned in the United States between 2014 and 2017, but China continued to investigate. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we propose the following: to support Spanish researchers who are making vaccines; to increase the safety of their laboratories - by the way, in Spain there is no biosecurity laboratory 4 and we need to encourage this - to publish the research that the government agencies have financed from Spanish researchers who have been related to the Communist Chinese government; to promote international initiatives to make an embargo on the transfer of viral technology in order to prevent this technology from being used to make potentially pathogenic viruses worldwide, and to intervene in international bodies to make a moratorium on research into these chemical viruses that have functional gain. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to buy vaccines now and we need to act to prevent more pandemics in the world, and for that China must pay. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Steegmann, for your time. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Velasco Morillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u172	Thank you very much, President. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. The VOX Parliamentary Group is presenting us with a motion referring to the COVID-19 vaccination process. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment to include aspects which the Government is not considering and which are of the utmost importance to my group and to the Spaniards; and that is why we are now in the vaccination process, with 27.4% of the population with a complete pattern and 45.8% of the population with a dose of vaccine. The concern is even greater in the coverage of age groups: between 60 and 69 years of age we have only 26.7% of the full pattern, 42% in people between 50 and 59 years of age and 95.7% between 70 and 79 years of age. The vaccination sequence is somewhat inconsistent, and this afternoon the Public Health Commission has approved vaccination between 12 and 39 years. In short, a vaccination in which the Government gives the impression that it is vaccinating the minister and what it is doing is generating real chaos. All countries of the European Union defined among their immunization deployment targets those focused on reducing the number of deaths to protect health personnel, reducing pressure on health systems and reducing the number of people hospitalized and in need of intensive care. I would like to remind you that in Spain more than 132 000 healthcare professionals have been infected, 80,579 people have died according to the data of the Ministry of Health - which are many more and the data we do not know yet - that we have 3251 people hospitalized and that 899 are in the uci. These data indicate that we are still in a pandemic and responsibility remains in the hands of the Government, no matter how much they want to delegate on the basis of alleged co-governance. Ladies and gentlemen, vaccines are the hope for all Spaniards, but we have found ourselves without a real vaccination plan and the autonomous communities have had to reorganise their vaccination plans without the help of the government. There are seven different vaccination strategies against COVID in Spain and not a single sign of co-governance from this government, which we have seen how you wash your hands or impose decisions without consensus that the courts have pushed back. And I've never seen it before, the highest health authority tells citizens to vacate with one vaccine and citizens choose another. The Government has generated an alarm among the population with indications contrary to the EMA, generating insecurity and mistrust. They have come to send a message that some vaccines are good and the others are not so good and the citizens have done the opposite as indicated by the Minister of Health. We have seen astonishment how they imposed restrictions against the criteria of autonomous communities and, when they knew that they were going to be given a judicial shambles, it was when they rectified. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the pandemic, no one questions the chaos that Minister Darias is causing in health management because of her continuous bandages and the confusion that has created in the population. Today, more than ever, the committee of inquiry into the management of vaccines and the vaccination plan in Spain, which have been paralysed for months, needs to be launched in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are at a time when more and more Spaniards are being vaccinated and certain restrictions are being lifted in the light of epidemiological developments, it is important to know the pharmacovigilance reports on vaccines against COVID and to know any adverse effects. Reports do not have to be published monthly, but it is important that these reports are known weekly to generate confidence in the Spanish. It is important that we know what the effectiveness of the vaccines we are putting on is, and that is only possible if immunity studies are carried out for the population. There is also concern about the new variants of the coronavirus and what the protection of the vaccine may be, and that is only possible to know if comprehensive epidemiological surveillance systems are established linked to the results of segmentation of the variants themselves; these variants, for Mr Simon, are insignificant. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, my congratulations to all the Spaniards because, despite the chaos of Darias, they are being vaccinated thanks to the immense work of health professionals and, in particular, of which the nurses are carrying out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u173	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. The urgent appeal of the VOX Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Health revealed some of the numerous trophies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez on account of the VOCID-19 pandemic and, in particular, of the vaccination campaign, on which I recall that it has been approved by this House for the past three months by a commission of inquiry that has remained in limbo until today, when the Bureau has activated the launch of an organ that is going to devote itself above all to seeking political responsibilities among the opposition, because here the friends of Inquisition 2.0 only strive to investigate when it comes to harass and attack the opposition. Let no one expect anything to be taken away from the examination of the vaccination process in which Spain is immersed, like everyone else; no, here what they will seek is to clear the political responsibilities of the opposition, because, thus, the investigative parliamentary comic book is being written in this XIV Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the government breaks in every day with assessments of the vaccination of which the merit is attributed when they are positive, but when questioned by the public it blames the pharmaceuticals or attributes the 1X2 of AstraZeneca to the confused and controversial interpretations of some spokesmen of the European Medicines Agency, as if the scientific criteria of the Spaniards were not sufficiently solvent. The reality today is that Spain continues to depend on vaccine production capacity and community dose-sharing criteria, without the Government taking example from other countries that have negotiated on their own to have more doses and accelerate the rate of full vaccination of their population, which they are achieving. There is also chaos in the data on a pandemic that we came very late to fight because of the lewdness of an executive who by the mouth of his president gave up the virus a year ago in an act of unmatched irresponsibility in the world. Of course, Mr Simon remains in his usual line as if such a thing, with his chascarillos and his misconceptions. Yesterday we met another one of his preferences by proclaiming that it is not the same thing that a 95 - year - old person dies than a 20 - year - old person. What's next? Maybe convert the leftover population into Soylent Green cookies, like the movie When fate reaches us? The goal of a good government is that no one dies, but what can we expect from the prophet who hopes that Spain will not have beyond some diagnosed case? There follows the phenomenon, almost a year and a half later, giving doctrine. There he continues to do and say of his own, the health emergency spokesman of a government that keeps the mortality figures of elderly residences in makeup. [[Applauds]] Once again, I would like to reiterate that the Spaniards continue to move away from the group immunity targets that the Government's own propaganda marked by the end of the summer is about to begin. As I formulated here in calling on the Government to implement a national vaccination plan, today I stress once again its need in view of the varied application of the measures depending on the autonomous community where it lives, which has led to contradictory situations resulting from a state of unconstitutional alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to miss my passage through the rostrum to remind you, as the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group has done, that nurses are the guarantors of progress in the campaign of vaccination against COVID-19 with great effort, great dedication, endless days in places of inoculation without a single conspicuous incidence in millions of nursing actions. It is time to ask the administrations not to forget the nursing staff when renewing contracts, updating wages, improving working conditions and converting the multitude of applause of the society in order to have the nursing ratio that Spain needs to reach as soon as possible in accordance with the law that is being processed here in Congress. In short, I will vote in favour of the twelve points of this parliamentary initiative that Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has defended with his proven solvency, because they all respond to irrevocable priorities in order to urge to correct the uncertain course carried out around the coronavirus with a management of the not even a self-assessment was carried out, probably so that the opacity and disinformation prevent the Spaniards from knowing the harmful behavior of the government of Pedro Sánchez in this very serious health crisis of the COVID-19. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u175	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u176	Thank you, President. Good night, everyone. Mr Steegmann, our parliamentary group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, will vote against the initiative you have put forward because we virtually reject one hundred percent of the proposals you make. [[EAJ-PNV]] There are some notes regarding research and transparency that we consider to be interesting and in this respect efforts are being made, but the rest is once again part of their anti-European obsession which has repeatedly been a constant feature of their interventions throughout the entire health crisis. It would almost end with this, but I find it curious and I would like to draw attention to the fact that you have started your intervention by appealing to the principle of prudence. As has been said, you have presented a motion with twelve points, some of them with several points within those points; in fact, almost fifteen points to give a response to vaccination. Do you know how many times you have referred in your proposals to the necessary solidarity and the necessary commitment of the rich countries to those countries that have the least chance of advancing global immunization? None. You appeal to the principle of prudence and the approach you are taking is absolutely protection, internal vaccination, and not everything else. Of course, we are clear that the European vaccination strategy must continue to move forward. The more doses, the better; the more effective, the better, and the faster, the better. The health authorities of the Autonomous Communities, which are responsible for deploying all logistics, must continue to do so as they are doing, at a good pace and well organized. Do you know what the phrase I hear most recently when I refer in some conversation - it is a constant in all places - to whether we have received the warning to immunize us or not? How well organized everything was! That's good! [[Applauds]] If you don't recognize it, you're not recognizing reality. It is not necessary to incorporate more hotel spaces, it is not necessary to incorporate the Army for it to vacune. It's working fine. What we need is for more, more effective and faster doses to arrive. Undoubtedly, we must continue to bet on the investigation. But if, as a result of the European strategy, almost EUR 3 billion had not been invested in research, the vaccines we have had would not have arrived and if, as a result of the European strategy, a very risky bet had not been made to invest billions in order to finance the production of a vaccine, which was nothing more than a project, we would not have the vaccine today. All this has been possible because we have had a joint vaccination strategy. Therefore, people should not be made to doubt, but to transmit confidence and continue to immunize quickly. But let us not forget that outside our borders there are many people who cannot access vaccines unless there are two fundamental keys, tools of international cooperation and commitment and solidarity, such as Covax, and temporary patent liberalisation to reach the most remote place in the world. Then we will act with prudence and the vaccination campaign that we will be doing will be effective. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u177	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u178	Thank you, President. Good night now. He is presenting a proposal which we are not going to support, unless he accepts the amendment put forward by the People's Party. I will tell you why we are going to vote no to this questionable motion. Although VOX makes many proposals, especially in the Committee on Health, brilliantly - he has a brilliant spokesman, who knows the subject a lot - on this occasion I find that the content is unhealthy, more political and, if I may say so, somewhat propagandistic. The main reasons that lead us to vote against this motion are two. One is Euroscepticism, which always plans, although in reality it is a general and coherent attitude of the party. VOX maintains that going on our own would be better for us. I'm surprised by two things. One is the great trust they once again show in Pedro Sánchez. They have already given him the management of European funds, everything for him, and now they will also give him the purchase of vaccines; I think they are wrong here. And the other is, in the sense of Euroscepticism, knowing that it is a pandemic that affects the whole world, they think it serves something to vaccinate or get more vaccines for one territory and not to vaccinate another territory or another country with which you have no open borders. The Schengen territory is vaccinated all at once or the prefix bread -, of pandemic, is not a whim that is put there. You know what the prefix bread means. This has been shown to be the right strategy. We have been very critical and have said the things that have gone very wrong, but the vaccination campaign is moving forward. Could you move on? Yeah, I could make more progress. Could it be worse? Yeah, it could be worse. I believe that when things are done reasonably well we must say so, and in that the Spanish Government will have something to do and the governments of the Autonomous Communities, in which the Citizens are also present, will have something to say. In Citizens we believe in the usefulness of the European Union and believe that the European Union makes each of its members better. It's the best peace factory ever made up. By the way, they are presenting us with an amendment to promote the vaccination campaign without a week having passed since the spokesman, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, raised doubts about the need to be vaccinated or not. It is true that he said he had been vaccinated, but it is also true that he said that if someone did not want to be vaccinated he was free. What are we left with, where vaccination should be promoted or not? I recognize that in this case it is dangerous for a public official to present a glimpse of doubt in this matter, although he is administering the vaccine, because they already raise other doubts about the vaccines. The second reason why we are voting against is because of the issues relating to the nature of the virus, which we do not share with the proposing group either. I do call on Congress's VOX Parliamentary Group to impose its opinion on the patents on the European Parliament's VOX Parliamentary Group, because here they vote against a measure that we know is bad and there they raise different theses. What do we propose in Citizens? We propose to remove administrative obstacles and regulatory obstacles to the development of clinical trials in Spain, thus allowing our country to be the refuge of biomedical research and not a hostile area, as they want to do other groups pursuing anything that does not govern them and in which they cannot place people. We also propose to promote the recognition of the model of success that has led us to start leaving behind the pandemic, the collaboration between public institutions and the private sector to face a challenge of such magnitude as COVID-19, putting Spain at the forefront of Europe in the development and production of medicines. We are already a power in the pharmaceutical industry. I want to thank the professionals who are working on vaccination. I've got my date for next week. It was very comfortable, because I was able to do everything telematically. I want to encourage everyone to do it. So we will vote against this motion. Mrs. Darias, look at this, because what you've done with the second dose of the vaccine doesn't make any sense. To cast doubt on the vaccine from the Ministry of Health is far more serious than everything I've said... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u179	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u180	Thank you, President. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a global public health emergency. Vaccines are the solution to this emergency and are needed in large quantities and very quickly. But it must be made clear that the risks are for everyone and, therefore, vaccines must be accessible to everyone. Developed countries have bought 50 per cent of vaccines, accounting for only 13 per cent of the world's population. In this sense, we must act with less vaccination nationalism, just what VOX wants. We will not be fully protected until the world population is vaccinated, we must be clear. Focusing on vaccination in Spain, I wanted to list the percentages of people with a complete pattern in the countries of our environment: Spain, 27 %; Germany, 26.3; France, 21.4; Italy, 23.6; Poland, 25.7; Holland, 23.4; Belgium, 26.9; and Portugal, 22.9. Therefore, I will not defend this Government, but I cannot share that the vaccination strategy is resulting in a disaster, as stated in the explanatory statement. It is obvious that there are things that could have been better done, and so we have claimed from Minister Illa and Minister Darias in successive appearances on the Health Commission. We have emphasized increasing public-private collaboration to speed up vaccination; increasing funding for research, R & D & i, and improving funding for public health; slow decision-making on the second dose of AstraZeneca, and we have also insisted on the need to vaccinate such an essential sector as agriculture, especially the temporary members of the fruit campaign. I can say that in PeCAT we have acted responsibly, being aware of the extremely serious situation we were going through. We support the state of alarm and its successive extensions; we support ERTE and economic impact measures. Were these improved? Yes, but they were necessary. To you, who boast of being the most patriots of the place, on this occasion we have given you a lesson in responsibility. For all the above reasons, we shall vote against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u181	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u182	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we will vote against your motion, because we do not only share the diagnosis you make of your own vaccination strategy, nor your management proposal. In fact, we start from a difference of approach in that regard. According to you, that vaccination rates are not optimal today is due to poor management in the strategy and vaccination plans. By the way, the Department of Salutation of Catalonia is already dating for the second dose of AstraZeneca vaccine to people between sixty and sixty-nine years - it was one of the problems you posed - a group that, in fact, received its first dose more than eleven weeks ago. On the other hand, we have missed seeing in your proposal for effective, safe and equal vaccination for all Spaniards what you want to do with homeless or undocumented people, who because of not having a residence fixed today are out of the vaccination strategy. What do they also think, for example, about the use of the Ministry of Defence's vaccine reserve to vaccinate the Spanish Selection, considered an essential group or, rather, of essences? Its proposal for such chaos is diversification in the provision of vaccines, even outside the framework of the European Union's agreements, the re-centralisation of management and the maximum mobilization of public and private resources. Curiously, they propose concrete measures, such as mobilizing the Army, other professionals and the private sector, incentivizing the personnel assigned to this strategy for productivity or employing unoccupied hotel capacity. And they stay so wide. I assume that they are aware that vaccination plans are deployed by the autonomous communities themselves on the basis of the criteria laid down in the European and State vaccination strategy, and that these plans are also drawn up on the basis of their full health competences, but above all on the basis of knowledge of the specificities of each health system and territory. Faced with a crisis situation like the one we are experiencing, inventions at the last minute can get expensive. But that's not the problem. Arbitraryly or not, you minimize in your diagnosis the root of a problem that has ended up affecting the current vaccination strategy. The main problem is not how vaccination has been managed, nor does it seem to be in the production capacity - let us remember the twenty-nine million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines stored in Italy that were supposedly destined for the United Kingdom - the problem has been and is the lack of compliance of pharmaceuticals with vaccine supply agreements, let us make it clear. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that, in the absence of compliance with the agreements established between pharmaceuticals and the European Union to ensure the supply of vaccines, our group raises the need to open patents, so as not to make a basic requirement for the framework of price speculation that has actually been set up. Finally, I would like to say that one thing has become clear to our group, and it is the failure of neoliberal formulas to manage a global pandemic, where basic collective rights such as health have been subordinated to the particular interests of pharmaceutical oligopolies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u183	Thank you so much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u184	Good night. We desperately need vaccines, not only for us, but for everyone. Vaccination is a human rights issue, but we have a serious problem, and it is that the pharmaceutical industry has produced efficient but clearly insufficient vaccines, and they do not want to solve it. Dean Baker, director of the Washington D.C. Center for Economic and Political Research, is putting forward a series of measures that I propose should replace the VOX measures. Mr Baker says: Since the production of vaccines is mostly financed by public money - see Pfizer, Merck and Moderna -, public funding should be extended to cover the entire cost of production of the vaccine and make it a patentless public product. Look at the advantages of this. With AstraZeneca it would be easy, because it was financed almost entirely with public money. We eliminate marketing spending and shareholders' profits. Mr Albert Bourla, director of Pfizer, received in 2020 a compensation of 21 million dollars, an increase of 17% of what he had received the previous year. Another advantage is that we eliminate the cost of paying the patent price. Another, and this is fundamental, is that it would speed up scientific knowledge by sharing essential information, now kept in secret, to ensure its control by market pharmacies. Scientific knowledge cannot interfere with particular objectives. If the production of vaccines had been public, there would have been a mass vaccination. We are even talking about technological problems, because the underdeveloped countries are the most successful in producing generics, which are simply medicines with a completed patent. Forty members of the United States Congress have made a proposal to Biden: it asks for public vaccines for everyone. Why do measures seek mass vaccination? Because more variants are appearing, such as alpha in Britain, beta in South Africa and now delta in India, which may not respond so well to vaccines. From all this one can only draw a conclusion, a fundamental proposal, to see what they think. If the pharmaceutical industry only investigates for profit, it is clear that we must boost a public pharmaceutical industry within the European Union or within the Member States, well financed by public money and that it should investigate for the common good. It's a proposal similar to Dean Baker's, but covering more, not just for vaccines. Fortunately, the European Parliament finally supports the negotiation of the World Trade Organisation to withdraw patents, but unfortunately the European Commission defends the interests of pharmaceuticals, just as it defended cuts and defended health privatization. They defend the parasitization of the public health system at all costs. What's the Spanish right doing? Well, the same as the pharmaceuticals. They know that if they had not made cuts in health, for example, mainly the PP, mortality from COVID would have been much lower, but they have never cared. [[Protests]] They never cared. [[Applauds]] The right is the representative of pharmaceutical companies. He opposes massively making vaccines, that's the problem. And with total defachation, at the same time as they are opposed to increasing vaccine production, they demand that the government buy vaccines that are not there. They're opposed to patenting. They say patriotic phrases: all Spaniards are vaccinated. Yeah, just the Spaniards. Who's he vaccinating public health? To the Spaniards. The right does not watch for vaccination, it watches for the multi-million-dollar benefits of its representatives, which are not exactly Spanish. [[Protests]] The European Parliament has already been in favour of patenting. Votes against, PP and Citizens; abstaining from VOX, which I don't understand why, because he's tired of saying that patenting was silly. I wonder if they're hiding. The right-wing fight for the privileges of their masters, the pharmaceuticals, will never fight for human rights; certainly not VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u185	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u186	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thirteen million people on a full schedule. The vaccines, sooner than later, will end the nightmare that is today the COVID, despite you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] In June 2020 Spain joined the European vaccine strategy. In 2021 it started with the first vaccines already given and the feeling of seeing light at the end of the tunnel. Vaccination in our country is carried out in accordance with the COVID vaccination strategy, as well as its updates, with the participation of the State, the Autonomous Communities, scientific societies and experts. It is a framework that ensures fairness and equality in the process. All vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency are safe and effective. Stop raising doubts, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, about vaccines. We have lived very hard months and difficult days and today we are at the beginning of the end of the pandemic. In Spain, collective immunity will be achieved before the end of August and will reach 70% of the population, as the President of the Government has said. Despite the difficulties, vaccination is progressing at a good pace and is a source of pride for our nation. The strategy works, takes speed and makes it easy to get more vaccines every week. The People's Party came to say that the government and the Socialist Party were lying and that the vaccination would not come within two years. Nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Seventeen million vaccines have arrived this month. In one day, 624 000 people have been vaccinated. The data backs up the right one. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest vaccination report published daily and which I invite you to read, a vaccine dose has already been given in Spain to more than 21.7 million people, 45.8 % of the population. There are more than 13 million people, as I said at the beginning, who already have the full pattern, and among them are the most vulnerable people. One in four people has the complete pattern. Spain is the first country in the European Union to immunize 100 per cent of those over 80 and vaccination does not stop. That is why today, right now, it will be many more people who are protected. Thanks to our health care and its excellent professionals, according to the latest data, we are vaccinationing at a faster rate than the United Kingdom, France or the United States. You can see it in this chart. [[Show chart]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one will be protected until we are all protected. That's why I want to personally thank the nurses, on behalf of my group, for their effort in the spectacular pace of vaccination. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this is also thanks to the fact that Spain participates in the European vaccine strategy together with the rest of the European Union. We know of their unjustified anti-Europeanism, but proposing that our country be excluded from the European strategy runs counter to common sense and the lessons we have learned in this difficult and long year of pandemic. This would only cause our country to act in the opposite direction to its Community partners, with the discredit that this may imply, putting Spain in a less advantageous position of access to markets. So please stop denying the correctness of the centralised European purchasing policy, because they know that access to higher doses depends on the European strategy and on the production capacities of manufacturers. In addition, I remind you that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, together with the People's Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, voted no to EUR 1000 million for the purchase of vaccines. You made clamps by voting no to the 1 billion euros to buy vaccines. Add to the struggle of hope against this nightmare and leave the partisan struggle parked at once, because you are patriots or not? At least be supportive. This is not the tone nor is it the talent that the Spaniards want and need. We need unity, we need heights of sight, we need generosity to overcome the difficulties and, in the fight against the pandemic, that is where we will find the socialists. Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, we will vote no to your motion, because Spain needs to vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u187	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u188	Mr President, we appreciate the amendments, but we cannot accept the amendment by the People's Party without distorting our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u189	All right, thank you very much. We vote in two minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to cast the vote on the telematics procedure will not be able to do so from their seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u190	Before voting, the second secretary will read out an institutional statement. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet. Let's finish the night.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u191	Institutional declaration of the National Day of Spanish Sign Languages. Yesterday, June 14, the National Day of Spanish Sign Languages is commemorated. The Congress of Deputies wishes to join the annual celebration of this ephemeride and to express its recognition and support for these languages, as well as to promote its dissemination as a fundamental tool in the exercise of the rights, duties and freedoms of deaf and deaf people, as well as of persons with hearing disabilities, as guarantors of their equal participation in democratic life. The Congress of Deputies wants to express its political and social commitment to deaf, deaf and hearing impaired people, and to claim the presence of sign languages in public policies. Sign languages are the result of the process of mutual interaction between biology and culture in the human being and constitute a great exponent of creative capacity and adaptation. As natural languages, they respond to the need to communicate and interact with the environment, help structure thought and embody the history, visions of the world and emotions of the people who use them. We must therefore recognize that sign languages are an expression of our country's cultural wealth, which must be safeguarded through determined political action, so that their use can be facilitated in all spheres of life, both in the public and private spheres. In our country there is an important legislative and social recognition of these languages. Act No. 27/2007 of 23 October 2007 recognizing the languages of Spanish signs and regulating the means of supporting the oral communication of deaf, hearing impaired and deaf people involved the recognition at the state level of their official character and that our society and our institutions committed themselves to promoting the learning and knowledge of Spanish sign languages, as well as to ensuring their free use in all spheres of life. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2006 and ratified by Spain in its entirety in 2008, in article 19 of the Convention states that States Parties recognize the equal right of all persons with disabilities to live in the community, with equal options to others, and shall take effective and relevant measures to facilitate the full enjoyment of this right by persons with disabilities and their full inclusion and participation in the community. In addition, article 30.4 recognizes the right of deaf persons to their linguistic and cultural identity. Deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people live in a largely hearing society and still today they have to overcome many barriers in communication and access to information, which in many cases are invisible. This Congress of Deputies therefore welcomes the progress made in the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities and reaffirms its commitment to the necessary guarantee of the protection and preservation by the public authorities of the languages of Spanish signs and to the necessary development of Law 27/2007 in order to ensure that the rights of deaf, deaf and hearing impaired persons are effective. It is convinced of the need to promote and achieve universal accessibility in our country in all areas, so as to reduce existing physical, sensory or cognitive barriers, with the aim of realizing the right of all people to a full, dignified and autonomous life. [[Applause.-The ladies and gentlemen raise their hands and move them in the air.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u193	We shall now proceed to the vote. We vote, first, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, an organic reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code for the Protection of Freedom of Expression. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; 63 plus 130 telematics votes, 193; 39 plus 113 telematics votes, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u194	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AN ORGANIZATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE PROTECTION OF VICTIM ORIGINAL PERSONS OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/000146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u195	We proceed to vote for the adoption of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic proposal for improving the protection of orphans who are victims of gender-based violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 243 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 102 plus 191 telematics votes, 293; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u196	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-15-CD210615.u197	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 11:30 p.m. today until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow the non-legislative proposals and the motions resulting from urgent appeals can be voted on electronically. These matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of tomorrow's sitting. On the other hand, I would remind you that the deadline for voting on the election of the members of the Military Life Observatory, which will be fully developed in a telematic way, will be from 9.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. tomorrow Wednesday. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was eleven o'clock at night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions, No. 110, for plenary meeting No. 106, held on Thursday, 10 June 2021, on page 69, third ballot, where it reads: 'Throughout the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 99 plus 248 telematics votes, 47;' it should read: 'Throughout the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 99 plus 248 telematics votes, 347;'.
